ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u1	Good morning. We resumed the sitting, with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the President's reply. And before we entered them we wanted to greet the students of the Melide Institute, students of 4th of ESO and 1st of Bachelor's degree. Welcome to Parliament. And also his teachers and the people who accompany us today in Parliament's rostrum. Let's get started. We have a full debate on the questions raised by the Group of the German Nationalist Bloc and the Group of the European Right. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government to respect women who defend equality by strike on 8 March 2019 Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, about the performance that will be carried out by the Government in relation to the exercise by women of the right to strike on 8 March 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u2	Mrs. Pontón, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u3	Precisely related to the sorting of the debate. I'd like to raise a point of order, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u5	Well, this is no longer the first time we've dealt with it in this plenary or the Speaker's board and I, at least, want it to be clear here what our position is. We understand, as a group, that the control session to the President of the Council of Galicia is a very specific control session, in which each group can have an individualized debate with the President of the Board, which, in addition, when it comes to global issues, which each group can face in a way, what it does is to divert the sense of the control session. There's nothing in the Rules of Procedure that forces you to make an accumulation, it's a power you have. We, of course, believe that this accumulation should always be made in common with the groups. And what seems to us to be arbitrary, which breaks the relations that are established in Parliament, is that, if you think it's the same question, what makes no sense is that you give it twice as much time to answer the president. Because what we're doing is diverting the terms, and the times... well, I could explain myself! [[Murmurs.]] Honestly, I don't know what they had this morning's lunch. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm asking a question and I suppose I have the right to speak. Or do they want to impose on us here too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u7	...the impossibility of expressing our views?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u8	Quiet. Yes, yes, you understand the question, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u9	We ask that this not be done, because we believe that it is to change the sense of control of the President of the Board. And secondly, there's another element that I think is important too. If it's the same question, I don't understand why you give it twice as much time, because that doesn't mean any economy from the point of view of parliamentary debate, and what you're doing is unbalanced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u10	Thank you. I got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u11	...the debates that must take place in this session.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. I got it. [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u13	In the same sense, to make an intervention just like the one that comrade Ana Pontón did. We believe that, since the accumulation of questions is not mandatory, if individuality is being left in the political action of each of the opposition groups that controls the Government, since in the formulation of a question we can make different arguments and therefore the terms of the debate — the political terms, the dialectic terms that we want to explain in this House — are different. In this way, we thought it would be appropriate, so that we could have a full debate on the rights of all groups of this House, which would differentiate the questions. The position is already well known by the Presidency and we would like to respect that role of control which the parliamentary groups have about the action of government, and which goes not only by asking the question but by explaining the argumental reasons why we are given the formula and also the argumental reason why we can lead the President of the Union to have one position or another on the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u14	Thank you. You understand the question. I spoke to the two spokesmen about this matter. I think we've all met. They know this isn't the first time it's accumulated. I haven't done it for the first time, I haven't been what I've innovated with this accumulation, there's a whole story in this Parliament of accumulations. There's a whole story that could also be done, whether shorten or decrease or increase times. It is covered by the Rules of Procedure, in two articles, 159 and 78.2, which is a power of the President. And so I, as I don't innovate on these issues -- some things I can innovate, but not in these issues -- about what we've been doing for a long time, I think I've proceeded: the same theme has to have a single answer. That's the philosophy I applied. So, let's go with the question... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Pontón, this subject has been discussed with you personally as well. Let's go to the question. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] In particular — and I have explained it — there are accumulated questions, in this case, the Galego Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group. He begins by asking the question, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u15	Thank you very much, President. On March 8th, thousands of Galicians went out to the streets to make it very clear that the world without women doesn't work and to say that we're sick of macho violence, that we're sick of glass ceilings and precariousness and that we're sick of paternalism, of seeing how some men want to talk for us. We went out to the streets and had to listen to how the People's Party insulted us. They came to say that this was a macho and elitist strike. And we saw how you tried to boycott us with minimal services that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declared abusive and malicious. But the next day, of course, they saw the women's massive response and retreated and told us that we should take note. And we see, Mr. Feijóo, as they note: waving an involuntarily speech against women, as the one that goes ahead or his row boss Pablo Casado, who leaves us pearls — I want you to listen to it — like "if we want to fund pensions, what we should think is how we have more children and not how we abort them." [[Applause]] Or what he told us yesterday or earlier, instead of talking about bullies, "that person who isn't getting along with women." If I tell you the truth, I'm not surprised at this involuntary speech, I'm not surprised if we're aware of what their government balance is in the matter of equality. In fact, the proposals that the People's Party is making with the far right in Andalusia have been applied by you for ten years here, when you cut off the victim's aid against gender violence, when you charged the Rodela network — support for battered women— when you diverted and diverted equal funds to fund that anti-abortist Redmadre, when you recovered the educational concerts with sex-segregating centres, when you abolished the Galician Equality Service or when you violate the equality laws. Because there's someone who's derogating them, and there's someone who doesn't. You choose to become subject to the Law of Equality at Work and violate the Law against Gender Violence. [[Applause]] This is your balance, Mr. Feijóo. You'll understand why I say the way the People's Party is walking in Andalusia with the far right you've already opened it. And this, of course, has consequences. It has consequences like there's less protection for women when they live in a situation of gender violence, less employment and more precarious, there's an increase in the pay gap, and there's thousands of women who, although they don't believe it, when they hear you say "conciliation," what they think is that you're talking about a science fiction film. And do you know why this is happening, Mr. Feijóo? Because for you equality policies are this: a bond, a bond that every 8M takes and puts on its tab and repeats ritually every 8th March. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo shows a link to Mr. President of the Galician Union.]] [[Applause]] This is about equality policies for you. Mr Feijóo, show that he has actually taken note and today in this Parliament supports the proposal that we bring from the BNG, that we say "yes" to what the Greeks are demanding, that we support this strike call and, above all, the agenda behind that 8M claim. You decide which side you are on, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, you have repeatedly assumed that you have a feminist government that works for equality, but, in fact, these policies are only smoke policies, smuggling smoke; it smokes smuggling like the one that comes out of the seat of the People's Party of Cambados, which, even today, follows the name of Terito, that well-known Cambodian smuggler who was the father of a whole generation of drug traffickers, of those who liked to walk by boat through the Arousa River. We will not ask you about the financing of the People's Party and the financing of its headquarters, because that already appears in the Property Register; therefore, there is nothing to ask, because it appears quite clear, the name of Vicente Otero Pérez, akas Terito. You're not just the equality policies, it's all your political action: behind the smoke there's only cuts. Firstly, cuts in freedom of expression. That's why you have the dubious honour of being the autonomous government with more firm convictions for having numbed women's rights in the feminist strike of March 8th, to complaints — and with convictions — of staff, 061, of the 061, of ourense emergency personnel, of the staff of the Presidency of the Galician Union, of the workers of the CRTVG, of the 112 emergencies and of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. You are presiding over the Government with more convictions for crushing women during a feminist strike. But it's not just a cut in freedom of expression. His cutting government also cut him down, first of all, in public health, where women have more difficulty in receiving treatment to their exclusive diseases, from that female gender, as is the case with endometriosis, who suffer from some 60,000 galleys, who are diagnosed with more than years of delay and who sometimes cause infertility of the woman. Dependency is also used. Women caring for care suffer a double penalty: working in the home without pay and also without contributions, giving the result that at the end of their working life they have even more poorer pensions than men's. Women's working rights are reduced. During the crisis female precarization was even more acute than male. In the year 2017 in Galicia, Galicians between 36 and 45 years of age receive 27.4 % less salary in the annual calculation than the Greeks, i.e. 4,000 euros of wages less per year. The ten years he's been ruling are also a black decade for equality, no effective policy to overcome the economic crisis that discriminated more women than men. You're committed to policies that end the equality policy and that's why you're going as a militant with Vox's members, with those who ask for the derogation of gender policies. You are president of the Union with more convictions in the area of violation of the rights of equality. I want to ask you, Mr. Núñez, in that sense: how do you want to be remembered? As President of the Government with more convictions for institutional machismo or as President of the Government with more firm convictions as labor repression? What title do you prefer to finish your stage? Mr. Núñez — already mentioned — his promiscuity with Vox is leading to the struggle against gender-based violence and the denial of the most progressive policies against gender-based violence. We ask you to recap and correct, Mr. Núñez, which is still in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u18	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A lie repeated a thousand times, often repeated, will never be a truth. And as much as they repeat that the Board has made the strike difficult on March 8th, it won't really become. Of all the minimum services that we have been required to carry out since the first half of Galicia, of the one hundred and twenty departments that had minimum services, were exclusively sentenced or modified five or five. Ladies and gentlemen, we can disagree in minimum services, there are hundreds of times when it disagrees with minimum services, others that are agreed, and others where there are judgments that completely or partially cancel out minimum services. But 96% of the minimum services of March 8th, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia said they were correct. So you start with a lie and about that lie, you hear your speech. I think it's good to take the sentences. That's what we Democrats do. I know you don't abide by the judgments. Look at what The Tides said in connection with a judgment of very little time ago: "I hope the judges don't settle in a franchise without Francs." And what Mrs. Pontón said, I would also respect the sentences: "Justice is given to the defense of the privileges of frankism; we will not allow the extreme right to judge us to fear the judges." Ladies and gentlemen, you are absolutely disabled to speak of judgments, of the Constitution, of the rule of law and of the judiciary. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, that's your permanent story: when you give them the reason, the judges are to be trusted, and when they're not given the right, the judges are extremely right or frank. Mr. Villares, I don't know exactly which side you are on, but your questions would already be answered. But, of course, the reality of equality needs calmness and, of course, remove it from the partisan sphere. There are some who want peace and consensus, some who want confrontation. We are interested in reality; to you, permanent manipulation. To say that the women of the PP government are smoke, to say that women who defend the People's Party are not women who want equality, to say that the absolute majority of Galicia is against equality is a true example of maximum political sectarianism. We're aware that there's a lot left to do, of course, but we're also aware that we're progressing properly. The first discrimination in the field of women is employment. Ladies and gentlemen, you should celebrate that there have never been so many women affiliated with Social Security like now, never, ever, in Galicia, exactly 480,462 women; never in Galicia were as many women affiliated with Social Security as now. You should know that the German labour market has better results than the rest of Spain. For example, female unemployment rate in Galicia, three and a half points less than in the average of Spain; employment rate of 16 to 64 years women, 2.7 points higher above the average of Spain; bias rate, 1.8 points less below the average of Spain; and temporality rate, also below the average of Spain. That's what they do. They hide that eight out of ten women work full-time and hide that seven out of ten have an indefinite contract. If you ask me if this is enough, the answer is no, but to lie to Parliament is to lie to Galicia, and there they won't find me. Your Honor, we're working cross-sectionally. There is no government in the history of Galicia — and I challenge the Journal of Sessions — that could tell us all the measures we have done and that had overcome us in some of them. Interdepartmental Commission of Equality, Advisory Commission of Sexist Advertising, Galego Council of Women, Galego Observatory against Gender Violence, VII Equal Opportunities Plan, Greek Conciliation Plan... Your Honor, all this in the governments I honour to preside over. [[Applause]] But we're still working on education. In education, a free-setting education plan in the field of equality. The boys and girls here can study for the first time in Galicia a subject to start from the beginning, from childhood and youth, not to accept any kind of male violence. Ladies and gentlemen, in collaboration with the councils, I support women victims of gender-based violence. But what about clippings? But if we're investing 67% more on equal terms than the Bipartite was investing in. And if you want to add equality and reconciliation, 114% more; the Bipartite, 54 million, and now, 117 million. If they don't even know how to add and stay, gentlemen, it's very difficult to talk about equality. Ladies and gentlemen, in conciliation and co-responsibility there has never been so much possibility of conciliation in Galicia, throughout history: twelve thousand daycare facilities, twenty-four thousand daycare facilities. Your Honor, the woman's presence in science. But exactly what are we being accused of? You accuse us of what? What about the PP? Are you accusing us of being of the Galician People's Party? Do you accuse us that this People's Party is the democratic party that wins elections every four years because most women vote for the People's Party in Galicia? [[Applause]] That's what we're accused of, Your Honor? Look, Your Honor, we're in favour of every touch of attention to be given to any male terrorist who uses his physical supremacy to address women's lives. And we are absolutely in favour of any kind of concentration, demonstration, campaigning, exhibition, conferences, institutional declarations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u21	Now there's a strike called. We're going to respect, of course, all the people who want to go to the strike and, in fact, many militants of the People's Party will certainly be involved in unemployment and mergers that take place on 8 March. We could get here, ladies and gentlemen. But what is this about the moral supremacy that they present when it's you who attack...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u23	...the majority of democracy in Parliament, when you use the Constitution when you're interested and if you don't, criticize it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u25	...unsatisfiedly? Ladies and gentlemen, what exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u26	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u27	...what to apologize?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u29	We apologize for having the greatest means of reconciliation, for having the largest number of women on social security and for having the greatest budget in history...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u30	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u31	...in equality policy. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u32	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u33	Thank you very much. Clearly, Mr. Feijóo, a repeated lie a thousand times remains a lie. And tell me whether it's true or not that there's a high court ruling in Galicia that condemns Junta for violating the right to strike a V.T.G. worker on March 8th. Tell me, Mr. Feijó, whether it's true or not. Tell me if it's true or not that there's one sentence, another one from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that said that you imposed minimum abusive and malicious services because they wanted to prevent women working in the public administration from being able to go on strike. It's a real shame what you do and the disrespect all of us have for all the women in this country. [[Applause]] And look, he's been six minutes and it's a shame that he hasn't spent thirty seconds apart from the verbal machismo of his row boss, Pablo Casado, who's been insulting us for two months and attacking us women, that we don't need any man to tell us or what it's like to be pregnant or mean to abort and, of course, far less than decisions we have to make about our body. [[Applause]] If you're so in favour of freedom, Mr. Feijóo, take advantage of now that he says he's going to talk, that he's no longer silent, and say that he's disarranged from the statements of his head of rows. Obviously, we're going to have little success there, because yours is always the submission to Madrid. But look, I don't think you know the reality of women in this country. You should know what's going on in the labour market. [[Murmurs.]] The latest data from EPA is that we have nearly 10,000 women less employed in our country, Mr. Feijóo. It's just that the salary gap has risen in a thousand euros since you rule, four times more than it has risen in the middle of the state. It's because we have the lowest pensions and the Galicians with a 36% wage gap. Women have more precarious jobs. You come here and tell them everything's wonderful, it's all great with you. Why did we women leave last year when we showed up and why are we going out this March 8th? I don't know, Mr. Feijóo, if you heard him. And again, we have to see him telling us that this is not politics, that how we can make politics with a debate on equality. I ask you, Mr Feijóo: the masquerading violence, the pay gap, the rapes, the discrimination of gender that we women live, is that the result of what? From a meteorological phenomenon, from a marine appearance? It is a political problem the inequality of women, Mr Feijóo, a political problem. A political problem that we don't solve with your lies, because there's less money for equality, because you, Mr. Feijóo, have cut out the aid to victims of violence, a network of support has been charged... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u35	...from volunteering to battered women, suppressed the Galician Service of Equality, violates the laws, violates the laws of equality, Mr. Feijóo. When you want to, I dare you: we sit on a table and put all the articles that you've been doing for ten years in violation of the Law on Equality at Work and also of the Law against Gender Violence. [[Applause]] If you agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u37	...in that it is necessary to support the call, I imagine that today at this plenary session, when we vote on the BNG initiative, we will see how the green light of its ballot box is lit. If not, Mr. Feijóo, to which we shall attend again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u39	...it's his hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u41	Less lila ties, less machismo against women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u42	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u43	...and more commitment to equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u44	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u45	Mr. Núñez, if everything is all right, if 96% was fine, explain the meaning of the sentence I'm going to tell you now. Di: "The ruling expresses the rejection of the administration's malicious behaviour by acting with unjustified delay in publishing the decree to fix minimum services and also malicious behaviour when setting minimum services in some areas of administrative activity." The judgment is firm, of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Explain this sentence, Mr President, if you can, if you can. And I'm going to ask you another very specific question, too, to see if you can answer it. We want you to explain in this House the secret agreements you have with Vox to stop applying the Equality Law. And I also explain. In last Commission 1st of this Parliament on 20 February, you voted against the creation of new exclusive trials against gender-based violence in the cities of Greece, such as those in Coruña and Vigo. Explain why they voted against it, why they voted against it, whether the women of Ferrol or Lugo do not have the same rights to make a specialized and exclusive internal legal organization like the one in Coruña and Vigo. Explain why. I'm going to explain to you what the concrete text was for you to see and listen to everyone, who was trading with the People's Party. "First. To achieve the review of the Law on Planting and Judicial Demarcation in order to expand the number of exclusive judges in the area of violence against women, with the objective of having a specialized judge with exclusive competence in all cities of Galicia, in accordance with the Joint Justice Commission of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia". Acquiring the review of the Law on Planting and Legal Demarcation is necessary to create with exclusive character any judgment of violence. So we need this mention in this provision. With the aim of expanding the courts so that the seven cities of Greece had exclusive justices of violence as Vigo and La Coruña have. Explain why you didn't do this. It was not done for a reason: because you have a secret covenant signed with Vox for which, if you cannot expressly repeal the Law of Gender Violence, at least empty content. And in this sense, we ask him very clearly — and with this end —: between Machism and equality, he is on the side of equality; between fascism and democracy, he is on the side of democracy. Mr. President of Galicia, if you don't have a sense of state, at least you have a feeling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u46	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u47	Mrs. Pontón, indeed, a lie, many times I say it, many times it repeats it, will never be true. You're talking about judgments, and I've already told you: one hundred twenty minimums of services during the strike, which is mandatory -- do you know that the law obliges autonomous communities, public administrations when there's a strike, to establish minimums of services? Perhaps Mr. Villares has not forgotten that yet; you should know—for well, one hundred and twenty bodies of the board of Galicia, except five, all the correct minimum services, all except five of the one hundred and twenty, correct. And you say we boycott that strike? If I understand what you think of Justice. He didn't tell me anything there. Do you really believe that Justice in Galicia is committed to the defense of Franchise privileges? Do you really think we're going to let the far right court scare us into the trials, Mr. Villares? Yesterday, a BNG MP said — read it textually — "Justice is macho, classicist and reactionary." And now nobody apologizes and now Mr. Villares talks about Justice and you too. But what sarcasm is this? If what we are here to defend democratic justice with the independence guaranteed in the Constitution, Justice and Constitution that you do not respect? How will you respect equality if you don't even respect laws? How will you use Justice and the Constitution when you do not respect Justice and the Constitution, which is the guarantee of equality for women and men in Spain? How are you, ladies and gentlemen, teaching equality when they don't even respect each other? Digital slot, 35%. If they don't care, what else does it give them! What more can you say 35% than 53%! If the rest is to modify a number above, behind. What's the matter? It's 23% of the payroll, but Mrs. Pontón says it's 35%. And against that 23% is against what we have to fight. And we had an agreement in this Parliament and with those conclusions of this agreement we brought it to the Congress of Members and we made a pact for equality, and that pact for equality we are respecting it scrupulously, and that pact was put under debate in the plenary session of Santiago. And what did they vote for? All opposed to maintaining the state pact of equality: the BNG, the Socialist Party and the Tides of Podemos. And who voted in favour? The People's Party. That's the reality of things, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, don't look back, I'll give you the proposal you voted on. But that gap doesn't mean we should hide that since 2008 women's average salary has grown in Galicia by almost 10%, and we are Spain's second autonomous community where women's wages have increased most since 2008, the second. But we have a 23% crack. That's the problem. That's why, ladies, come here with this kind of lies! The first equality law in Galicia, a government of the People's Party. The first Plan of Action against Gender Violence, a Government of the People's Party. The establishment of the Network of Local Authorities against Gender Violence, my Government. The character of the Union in the criminal proceedings that left the victims alone — and we never abandoned them —, this government. The Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, this government. Never in Galicia — I insist — more measures have been taken in favour of the real and effective equality of women as with the Government which I honour to preside over. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's very easy to talk, but budget equality is the highest in the history of the Autonomous Community. It tells Mrs Pontón that we have abolished a Service of Equality; indeed, there were two: one of the Vice-Presidents of Welfare and one of the Socialist Party. There were two governments, two equal services. Now there's a government and a General Secretariat of Equality. It's logical, Your Honor, it's logical, exactly logical. [[Applause]] They also try to manipulate by saying that we set up the concerts of the centers that separate the classes between children and children. Another fallacy. These centres were funded by the Bipartite throughout the legislation and we kept funding. Why don't you let mothers and parents decide? Why does the concept of equality have more value than that of Mrs. Pontón than that of a Greek mother who decides to take her son or daughter to that center? Why is Mr Villares — who, for the moment, has no experience — able to decide how to raise children in Galicia and not parents? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, this kind of fallacy, of ideological supremacy that is attacking solely against the real and effective equality of parents, mothers, women, men, simply by not voting the tides of Podemos or not being nationalist Is it in Galicia that what is not nationalist is macho? Is it not in Galicia that you don't get into the trouble of the Tide of Podemos is a masquerading lord to pursue? Is there really no freedom in Galicia to vote for those who love every Welshman and send nationalists to the opposition for so many years? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you tell me about Vox. Mr. Villares, if you ask me how about Vox, ask BNG. If it turns out now that the IGC press heads are from Vox, if it turns out that the BNG militants have gone to Vox, if it turns out that these militants have been in Anova and now they're going to Vox. [[Laughter]] You ask your benches exactly what Vox is, Your Honor. Ask them, and they might find the explanation. [[Applause]] The explanation, Your Honor, is that March 8 is the Day of Equality all over the world, in Venezuela too. We have the second vice-president of this Parliament, the Tide of Podemos, in Venezuela. I'm convinced that I would facilitate humanitarian aid to mothers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u49	...with babies, kids who want to eat and want to have medication. I am convinced that the Tides of Podemos went to Venezuela and are in Venezuela to demand the real and effective equality of Venezuelan mothers and girls who have the right to eat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u51	...they are entitled to pharmaceutical benefits and have a right to dignity. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that you, lessons of equality, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u53	If they want to talk about equality, they'll always have their hands stretched out. But why do you always criticize everything and never propose anything? Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u54	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the need to cope with the crisis of birth that Galicia experiences
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u55	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u56	Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who has a structural demographic crisis, is evidence today in Galicia, that this crisis has worsened in the last ten years, I think it is also shared by everyone. It continues to fall since 2008, where there has been a maximum, the number of births, in a cumulative process in addition, because at low birth rates it is assumed that the generations of women who are at the age of having children are smaller and smaller. We have, according to the most recognized demographics, a lower fertility among the lows, unique by their level even within the European regions. Look at the gravity of your balance. In 2008, they were born in Galicia 23,175 children. In 2018, ten years later, we're going to be around 17 thousand — there are no definitive figures yet — a fall of over 25%, in a matter about which you assured from the beginning — that we share — that was central, that was a decisive, strategic matter, for the future of Galicia. Ten years, Mr. Feijóo, the ten years you've been in front of the Galician Union. The demographic crisis, a central issue, and also -- why not? -- one of its biggest failures. Yes, yes, one of his biggest failures. You approved in this parliament a strategic plan 2010-2014, which placed the recovery of birth among its main objectives. Can you give me a balance on that plan? You also approved, along with Mrs. Mato as advisor, a demographic revitalization plan that reached until 2016-2020, which we did not support, because it was wrong in the diagnosis. He said women should be convinced that they had more children, because they weren't convinced. We all know that it's not so, that the women and men in this country want to have two children and have one. And he was also mistaken at the policies that had to be carried out to remedy this, because there was no concrete. Give me a balance on that plan, too. And now we hear, Mr Feijóo, the reckless leader of his party in Spain, which certainly represents the Spaniards of good — the Spaniards of regularity, that we are most, we are something else — that the solution for increasing birth is to restrict women's rights. [[Applause]] It is the famous Ceaușescu solution, which has no empirical results, there is no empirical backing anywhere in the world, but continues to insist on it. It's pure retrograde ideology, a threat to women's rights, a social retreat. Even Celia Villalobos went scared when she heard what her leader was saying. And we want him to be brave and condemn, without warm cloths, with roundness, those statements, those approximations. We have to stop this drift, whether they're going around they're going to argue that we have to ban contraceptives or that we have to go back to the Divorce Act or I don't know how many more things. The imposed birth isn't a solution. The imposed birth is a retreat, it's an assault on women's rights. We, on the other hand, are in the opposite position. We believe that in order for birth to recover, we must strengthen women's rights, we must give them more chances of just fulfilling what their goals are, their will, which is to have more children. In order to achieve this, public policies in the field of employment, conciliation, co-responsibility, social rights must be amended. Because only if we make individual wishes compatible with social needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u57	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u58	...we will be able to move Galicia forward, and for that we need quick, effective political decisions and in the right direction. It's been lost in this matter for ten years and it's time for him to get his time back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u59	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u60	Mr. Leicega, I thank you twice for your courage. First, to say a socialist in the Galician Parliament that is Spanish is of course a declaration of intent. I say it because as you always rule when you lose with nationalists in all institutions... but even above all I congratulate you, gentlemen! [[Murmurs.]] I congratulate Mr. Leicega on saying that he is Spanish in this Parliament; perhaps a few decades ago I could not congratulate him, but today I congratulate him. And, moreover, I am pleased, Mr Leicega, that I also congratulate you on talking about demography, because I have been, like many Members here, when you despised President Fraga, calling him reactionary, for talking about demography. So we're moving forward, Mr. Leicega. And how can we deal with the problem of birth? which, indeed, is the first structural problem in Galicia. For with realism, with the realism of a crisis that, as you know, has been reacting in the 1970s and that we've been with this crisis for 40 years. With the realism of saying that Europe is in the same crisis, with different intensities of birth that Spain is. Realistically, it can't be solved in the short term. With the realism of accepting that the next few years would be even worse, because, as you know, as a result of the sudden lowering of the population for forty years, we now have fewer couples at fertile age. And with the realism of saying that the public authorities have to put forward concrete proposals. The Bipartite, zero proposals, zero proposals. And, as I ask for balance, I do it with great interest. But in just 15 years, from 1976 to 1991, we went down from 45,000 births to 21,900, and that remained. The year they were born in 1998 -- then 18,564 -- we almost equal to the year 2017: 18,485. That's the realism we have to think about. Now, tell me that the fertility rate is falling you know you're lying, or, if not, you should check it out. No, no, he's lying. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, see, in 1998 the fertility index was 0.92; and in 2017, 1.12. If you take the series of the last twenty years, 1998-2017, you'll see that in the fertility index, twenty years, the top ten are the year 2008 and the remaining nine, when you ruled this government. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Your Honor, I understand that the fertility rate is the same you've never heard of, but it's fundamental. I'm saying they didn't hear you talk, because I don't know why you're laughing. [[Murmurs.]] Did they not know the fact that the fertility rate in Galicia is today higher than it was in 1998, in 1999, in 2000, in 2001, in 2002, in 2003? From twenty years from 1998 until now, from ten years better, nine have been president since. And do you think you can think for a moment that I think this has to do with the government? No, of course, Your Honor. This has to do with people who decide to have children. And what does the government have to do? Make it easy. And you ask me about the balance. Nice to meet you. The balance of the Bipartite is nothing. And the current balance is that we are the autonomous community with more tax deductions from Spain. We have more public employees who benefit from hourly flexibility — eleven thousand —. We are the autonomous community that has increased maternity leave for the first time and more intensively, from twenty-two to twenty-four weeks. There are more families who benefit from the help to reduce the daytime; 1,600. We are the first autonomous community, and certainly the first in the history of Galicia, with a Welcome Card. Do you know how many people benefited from the Welcome Card, 100 euros a month during the first year, which can be up to the second and third year depending on the income?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u62	Forty thousand Greek families. Do you know how much we invested in Welcome Card? More than 33 million euros this year 2019. We are the autonomous administration with more resources to reconcile history; from twelve thousand kindergarten squares to twenty-four thousand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u64	Are you telling me if you're satisfied with this? No, no, no, no. And that's why we're going to bring to the House a demographic bill. We will introduce all the conclusions of the Galician Demographic Observatory, which we have reached agreements and unanimitys, in that law. I hope that the Socialist Party will not go away, as if it were absent from the demographic pact, which supports that law; at least make contributions, Mr. Leicega. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u65	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u66	Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, I have not heard you condemn Mr. Married. I don't know if we have to suppose that he agrees with it or not. I repeat, the birth crisis is not about restricting women's rights; on the contrary, it is about giving women and families more rights. We need to improve the living and child-care conditions so that birth can recover. [[Applause]] Look, this is the birth rate, this is the year you take the government. These are Touriño's years as president, and this is the situation in 2017, 2018 is still much lower, this is the situation. Of course we know the synthetic indicator of fertility!, but you also know that in recent years this slight recovery has prevented it from happening, in spite of everything, of 1.2. The goal you had for 2014 was 1.59 and it's far away from it. Your birth policy is a failure, Mr. Feijóo, look where you look. Look, there'll be no more children as long as it's an obstacle to the professional promotion of women, so equal business plans are so important. There will be no more children as long as part-time precarious employment, while part-time involuntary employment is so common, so we need a specific plan. There will be no more children, whereas with the salary received it is very difficult to face a child with guarantees and conditions, but you criticize the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage and oppose the revision of labour reform to increase the bargaining power of workers. [[Applause]] In the parliamentary discussion of the 2012 plan, we have proposed more than thirty pages of concrete measures on all these necessary matters of co-responsibility, also in the area of strengthening social policies, and you have not wanted to listen to them. I propose that you regain rationality and vote in favour of equal and extended parental and meternal permits, as proposed by our Government of Spain. I also propose that they work together in the policy of universalizing access to children's schools from 0 to 3, and I propose that they deepen in conciliation policies and in co-responsibility policies. We can agree on many things, we can put in place, for example, a compulsory formative module for ESO students, which introduces equality in the tasks of home as a reality for everyone. That depends only on the will of the Education Council, it depends only on its Government. For example, we are clearly participating in the observatory. You know we made an effort to be present and for all groups to be present, and we're going to work to improve the law when it gets here. But we're not going to comply with mere marketing measures, we're going to try to make this real. If there is commitment, if there is a timetable, if there is a real commitment to promoting women's rights, they can count on us. For the policies that your leader proposes, of course, with us they won't count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u67	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. I keep important, you're going to participate in that law, you're participating in the observatory, we have a unanimous agreement on the observatory's proposals, and that's an advance. But look, don't confuse the number of births with the fertility rate. The fertility rate has to do with couples who are likely to have children, okay? And that government of what you're talking about, the Bipartite, which did nothing about birth, the fertility rate in 2005 was 1.02, in the next 1.04, 1.06, and in 2008, 1.13. That's right. And for example, the rate of the last five years in Galicia, that is to say women who can have children, in Galicia, today have more children than before. In fact, the fertility rate in 2013 was already 1.4, in 2014, 1.07 and 2015, 1.10, in 2016, 1.12 and 2017, 1.12, the highest since 1998. What do you mean? That women who can have children in Galicia are having more children than before. And that has to do with the help of the Galician Council? I don't know, but that the help of the Galician Union exists more intensely than ever, that's an unquestionable truth, Your Honor Unquestionable! [[Applause]] But, Mr. Leicega, if when you're done, you're going back to college, you can't teach that graph because the students are going to take out the fertility rate, which is the number of children you can have on the basis of couples of fertile age, and now they're going up more than when you rule, and more than the last 20 years, Mr. Leicega. Why don't you guys really want to debate serious issues? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u69	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u70	It turns out, Your Honor, that when we discover a key and positive data, we have to go against it because there is simply a goal to destroy the democratic government and not accept that today women who may have children have more children than in the last 20 years. That is the truth of the matter, Mr Leicega, and you should study it, because in the observatory where you participate, you have realized this data, which is optimistic and which leads us, without any doubt, to albiscate possibilities of hope. You talk about economic issues, but do you know that in Europe's largest economic power — Germany — the average age of the population is one tenth over Galicia, 46.3 years old, and Galicia 46.2 years old? Do you know that one of the five most important economies in the world — Japan — the average age is greater than Galicia in two tenths, 46.5 years? This poster that pulls out the Socialist Party, a poster that I couldn't give credit for, considers it bad that today there are more older people living in Galicia ten years ago. Turns out the problem is we have more older people living in the autonomous community ten years ago. But do you have any trouble with the elders, Mr. Leicega? But how can you take out this poster by criticizing that ten years later there are more older people in Galicia than there were ten years ago? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u71	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an exceptional life expectancy, an exceptional public health service, and now we're starting to have more women who have more children than in the last 20 years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course we must continue to consider! Look, Your Honor, in that law we're going to bring to the House, we're going to propose a series of measures. Anticipate you one, Mr. Leicega. I'm sure you're interested. What do you think if in the law we grant a seal of recognition to companies engaged in family and conciliation, and that companies that have that stamp have higher points for recruitment within the Public Service? It's a concrete proposal. So companies that have conciliation policies, that companies that are interested in these conciliation and family policies, have priority for recruitment to the public administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u74	In 2018 we paid 550,000 bills. Behind every bill there are many companies. We are going to propose that the Greek companies which have concrete conciliation policies, specific policies for the family, have a higher score for recruitment in the area of Galician union. If we do all this in the public administration as a whole, I'm sure companies will take much more seriously this structural problem that Galicia has had for 40 years, which is a low birth rate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, of proposal not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and fifteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the decision of the company Naturgy to close the thermal power plant in Meirama and to build on its land a wind farm and a biogas plant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u76	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u77	You have the floor to Mrs. Novoa-Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u78	Thank you, President. After this passionate debate about woman's day, I'd like to say something. Look, I'm a woman, I'm a mother, I've studied a technical career, I've worked for a private company, and I'm very proud and with my rights perfectly defended by the acronyms of my party, the People's Party Go ahead, gentlemen! [[Applause]] I begin my intervention, ladies and gentlemen. Today the People's Group brings to this plenary an initiative that deeply affects the industry and, therefore, the Galician economy: the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant in the Council of Cerceda, which will entail a business loss of EUR 20 million a year for our community, a decision that affects more than 100 workers in the plant, as well as other auxiliary companies that depend on its activity. Ladies and gentlemen, you who always put the city halls above you should be concerned that Meirama throws the lock in Cerceda. It assumes that a municipality of only 5,000 inhabitants no longer collect 1.3 million euros in terms of IBI and IAE, which accounts for more than 10% of its budget. It is surprising, however, that the mayor of this council is re-designed and the local Members in this Parliament, too. Ladies and gentlemen, behind the closure of Meirama there are two clear leaders: Naturgy and the Government of the State. One guilty: Naturgy, who turned his back on the Galician community, since he could do the investments in the same way as Endesa did in the Bridges. According to guilty, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who has the utmost responsibility for his wrong strategy of closing the thermals before time. Ladies and gentlemen, article by La Voz de Galicia: "The Government signs the death of the Galician thermals by 2030. Meirama will close within nineteen months, and As Pontes, fifteen years before expected." Date, 16 November 2018. Announcement of Mr Sánchez's Ministry of Ecological Transition Energy Secretary before Naturgy announced his commitment to invest in Meirama. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the truth is that you appreciate... I would like, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vilán, indeed it is surprising that you appreciate this way of committing yourself to Galicia of the Government of Mr Sánchez, a government, as brief as history, which will be remembered by what most aggravating caused Galicia as soon as possible. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you remain motionless and with a complicity to the aggravations of this government with the Galician community, I will detail the sad balance that leaves these almost nine months of Government. As soon as it arrived, the government was hiding with a possible delay in the arrival of the AVE to Galicia, and the budget for the year 2019 would leave Galicia in terms of infrastructure. We continue with funding for the port of Coruña, scarce, zero financing, in favour of Valencia. Delayed in the order of execution of the F110 frigates, more than half a year ago the contract had to be unlocked; no absolute commitment to the naval industry in Galicia and the district of Ferrolterra, 7,000 jobs that would generate with this project, gentlemen. And the whole thing is that they prejudice even the provinces where they govern council and deputation, as happens in Lugo, denying him the Social Judge, after rectification in favor of Santiago. Five. In the obsession with wanting to be the number ecologically, regardless of the consequences, they have to be one of the first European countries to ban diesel. This government application has revealed that the car industry represents 10% of Spanish GDP and 17% of German GDP, beginning in 2018 by increasing sales in this sector, closing it virtually in negative numbers, and being directly affected by many jobs in the Welsh automotive industry. All this uncertainty that you generate, that your government has generated, was for an announcement of the end of the diesel, and you've already given the European Union a bunch of ears, saying that technology cannot be banned or banned. Ladies and gentlemen, then they rectified, and in the new plan they presented last week they already appointed it by 2040, and by 2050 at the end of the diesel. Another measure of punishment for the Greeks and the Greeks is the state's general budget for 2019—or it was, fortunately, rejected—that would result in a drop of 19% for our community, and, on the other hand, a strong increase in diesel taxes, contracts, autonomy, a fictitious collection of taxes, which, in addition to unrealistic calculations, would cause the loss of the purchasing power of the Greeks to surely not achieve their end: countering the irresponsible expenditure of a government, co-agated by their partners of Podemos and independentists, who would prejudice Galicia by 19% and, however, would benefit Catalonia by 50%. The task is to see how the Greek socialists try to convince us that they benefit us in the social part. When Rajoy was ruling, the budget was 13% and that was an aggravating for Galicia. Now they're coming down almost 20% and we have to conform. As someone said several times here, quite important in our community: "We Greeks are not fools," gentlemen. And now, in the middle of the electoral campaign, they're going to continue to waste, they're going to rule through decree-law, and knowing what can happen in the coming months that they're left in office. And no longer to tire them much more -- because never nine months have given up so badly -- I'm leaving for the end of the abandonment of the Welsh intensive electro-intensive industry, which is going through serious problems. [[Murmurs.]] Five months ago Alcoa announced his closure in the Coruña and also in Avilés. Two months ago Ferroatlantica declared its intentions to implant an ERE in the factories of Cee, Dumbria and Soapón. Where are the solutions? None. [[Murmurs.]] A government that ruled the basis of decree because they thought that sitting in a chair -- in the Moncloa -- was already there, but ruling is much more than personal ambitions. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is to put solutions, solutions to problems that are entirely of their competence. Mr. Sánchez doesn't have a hard time sleeping at night, now we understand, so he changed his mattress. But you don't care that 5,000 jobs in the gale intensive electro-intensive industry are at risk in Galicia, that about a thousand between Ferroatlantic and Alcoa don't know what their future is going to be. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, it will cost these employees a lot to sleep at night. I don't want to imagine if he was a president of our group who published a book in which he said his first decision was to change the mattress of his room in Moncloa. What a frivolity, gentlemen! How frivolous, how many problems you all said there was in Spain, gentlemen! So much trouble! But no, the first decision was to change the mattress, gentlemen. And it's not enough for him to do anything about the problems we have, but it's causing others. So, the flaming minister of Energy Transition declares the end of the thermal power plants and directly causes that investment in Meirama is not made. And as I was saying at the beginning of my intervention, they declared before Naturgy had announced his intentions not to invest in making it even easier and disincentive them more. And you're so quiet, resigning. I'd tell them not to calm down, gentlemen. When it was announced here, in October, the closure of Alcoa, we already told them that others would come. In fact, three months later, Ferroatlantic put a decision of ERE on the table for its plants. The same as Meirama will happen to the Bridges, gentlemen. They are not calm, because their Government has just adopted a national plan at the Council of Ministers last week that will advance the closure of the thermal power stations in Galicia and the rest of Spain, 15 years earlier, gentlemen! So, I recommend you don't be quiet. As I said, in the full election campaign, last week practically, he presented to the electricians a national energy plan, a draft law and an energy transition law. Before the electricity, not in Congress, not in parliamentary groups. I want negotiation, absolutely none! A plan which, as I say, presents far more objectives than any other country in the European Union, including those which the European Union recommends. A plan comes up with sobs, with electoral propaganda, which puts the thermals and ends up in our community before it's planned. A plan for the closure of the thermal and nuclear power plants by 2030 with targets of pollution reductions far higher than those of any other European Union country, far higher than those of France and Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to be champions, see what a price it costs us all! The paradox is that we're going to be the first to close our thermal and nuclear power stations and then we're going to buy nuclear energy from France or Morocco, which also have thermal energy. That's the paradox of this government, gentlemen! And this will undoubtedly provoke the rise for a time of the price of light, because an energy model does not change in ten years, as this Government intends. The People's Group and the Government of the Union agree in an orderly, sustainable energy transition, and above all fair, which does not harm anyone. That's why the People's Group is bringing this initiative, so that the Government can act, that it can work to keep the Orders County on industrial activity. Let the State Government articulate the measures necessary to prevent the decision which has been communicated by Naturgy on the closure of the Meirama plant. That, in their fault, articulates together with Naturgy a true reindustrialization plan linked to maintenance and job creation, so that none of the groups affected are affected by the closure decision of the Meirama plant. The People's Group does not see enough an industrial plan that goes through the construction of an wind farm and a biogas plant; we do not see a clear commitment to the maintenance of employment in the District of Orders. Point 3 of our initiative says that the adoption of this industrial plan, as well as the industrial policy decisions linked to Meirama's land, are made in agreement with the Government of Greece. I'm done. This is a simple initiative, with clear commitments. I hope they take it into account, they add up to asking for action at once. Since the Government said it would rule until the end, because it does it, it does it, it works, and it makes an agreement that benefits Galicia for once. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. They've got me! Because I thought we were here to talk about a problem... No, no, he talked about everything but the problem. [[Laughter]] I won't be able to escape from saying, "First Portomarín, then Castrelo do Mine, then he touched the Encrobas to suffer a dead couple." Because Fenosa's in Galicia is very old, it's almost a chronic disease. [[Applause]] And look, start in that marriage so well-furnished between the Count lord and the shield of Spain for the grace of God, that damned disgrace to us! Mr. Count put the money for the murder weapon and the general returned them with great account—of course it is!—of the spoils of our wealth. "Let the bottle be And there he sent the civilians to impose the warrant." And this corresponded to the concordance of Castrelo. Look, every one of them comes up with a glass. So today we are rich in songs, because the odds were many. "In the Nails women in black, umbrellas in hand, defending their lands and their bread. Face the green of the hoods, the black of the tricorns and the butts of the mauses." Never before has it been seen, after so many decades of post-war and submission. Those images made the blood boil. I saw you live, Moncho Valcárcel and so many and so many more. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, for you that was, then, a banality, and today it is again. After so many years without any investment requirement, so many years that Fenosa has done and done what she wants, after using this issue as electoral propaganda — like Pemex —, once again they use it as an excuse to, without compromising anything serious, do what they do, make themselves worried, do as they govern. But look, they didn't want Rajoy before, and now they're remembered by Sánchez at the last minute. What a cross we have with you! It will be necessary to remind them that in Galicia there was coal mining, and when it touched to close the extraction, it once again touched us to deal with the holes made today that bear lakes, with people's diseases and with environmental damage and unemployment, because they were excluded — we are excluded! — from the successive plans of coal. And you didn't say much or nothing, because the consequences of this colonial exploitation model of our miners are based on their centralist policies, which exclude us from the possibility that the next end of coal is an opportunity for the territory of the Encrobas and Bridges. The European Emissions Directive, which sets the levels of polluting emissions so that thermal power stations can operate until 2045, is not new to them, is not yesterday. And yet the People's Party has allowed emission levels to be too high without exaggerating, even pressing, so that Naturgy would make the required investments. See, by 2015, by the end of January, Mr. President, in full electoral campaign, participated in the staging of a major electoral event of those who like Mr. President. At the end of this, Mr Gabarró personally communicated the decision to initiate environmental processing and the actions to adapt Meirama's power plant to new times. There's pictures and everything! He's always had a weakness in the photos of Mr. President... A whole campaign of free and misleading electoral propaganda. The People's Party and the President of the Union are on the right track... they're on the right track to control the highly polluting emissions of the Encroba thermal, everything's fine. You're lying! You're lying! You are complicit in this disguise, and now come the last hour, of urgency, washing your face, doing what they do, with this LNP, trying to pass the thumbs of responsibility to see if you glue them again, and you will not. Look, we have an amendment you know. You ask Naturgy! You're the one who has to demand Fenosa, Naturgy. Let the disguises -- we're in the hall -- you want! Start adapting to the legal framework, so as to allow a transition to a new energy model. You do it, why don't you? Why do they come here with milongs that if Sánchez does, I don't know what if the other... You're already in the election campaign, but don't do it so shamelessly, please! [[Applause]] You talked about everything. You talked here about everything but the problem. I want to tell you that more than a month ago the company committee closed in the Order Council -- not the Orders -- and there we were. You didn't show up. You didn't say anything. They didn't say it to Alcoa, they didn't say it at the time with Ferroatlantics. We have been here, debate after debate, demanding a logical position of defence of this country, of what has been given to Mr. Villar Mir so that it can operate Ferroatlántica. And with Alcoa the same. You're the magicians of the costume. Well, we're at the crossroads. But the entrance will pass, some day it will have to happen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u81	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Now a greeting to the students and students of the 4th ESO of the Sacred College Heart of Ferrol Mercedarias. Welcome to Parliament. And also the teachers and teachers who accompany them. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning and welcome our guests. Today, commemorating — even if it is early — on 8 March, I want to claim that we want to be equal, that we want to be empowered, that we want to be equal that they went and made the women of the Encrobas. [[Applause]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen... few, few are here today, you can see there are other concerns. The truth is that two and a half years have been in this Parliament and I am surprised that it still has surprise capacity. I am surprised by the political cynicism of the Galician People's Party. I am surprised by the political cynicism of the Government of Galician militant president Núñez Feijóo. And given the intervention here by the honourable Member of the People's Party, I understand that the concern you have for the thermal power plant in Meirama is half a minute from the intervention. [[Applause]] On March 7, 2017, the PSdeG brought here an initiative, at the plenary session of this Parliament, to remind the Galician Council of its obligations as an autonomous administration, so that the Galician Council and the militant president of Galicia could defend 72 million euros from the 2006-2012 Coal Plan unilaterally cancelled, Madam Member — unilaterally! — by the Government of Mariano Rajoy in 2011, nothing more will come to Moncloa. [[Applause]] The first political decision, 72 million euros lost Galicia. We have brought this initiative for the Union to defend these 72 million euros and to recover the funds committed and approved by the Councils of Cerceda and The Bridges and their contours, Madam, derived from the degradation of the areas due to the development of coal mining activities, and for Mr Feijóo to defend the inclusion of concrete actions of sixteen Greek councils in Royal Decree 675/2014, published by the Rajoy Government. I will leave here the initiative — thank you, Mr President — to remind you of it, and I will remind you of the commitment to Galicia, the results of this vote. Look: 41 votes not. How many are the Members and the Members of the People's Party? It's 41. Among them, the militant president of Galicia. The vote was no. The Roll of the People's Party once again prevented the Council of Galicia from addressing the State to ask what was approved and to which they legitimately had the right to the Town Hall of Cerceda, the Town Hall of the Bridges and its surroundings. [[Applause]] Or do the inhabitants of Cerceda and the Bridges have less rights than those of the rest of Galicia? Or is he only enlisted in those municipalities where the People's Party rules? Tell me. This is nothing but political hypocrisy. [[Applause]] Look, being a Galician militant, and that Galician, Galician, Galician, Galician, is fighting for Galician rights, its territory and its population. That's the flag of Galicia, Galicia, Galicia. The President of the Galician Union has just made a furious attack a few days ago on the budget project presented by the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Where was he? Where was Galician militant when 72 million were lost and he had the same party in the State Government with Mariano Rajoy? Where was he? Yes, you can tell me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, I would like to recall that the PP Parliamentary Group on 11 October 2017 signed an initiative calling for support for the State's general budgets for 2018. Can you be more hypocritical politically? [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'll give you data. When you have to debate, come on, Mr. President will allow you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of the non-legislative proposals presented by the People's Party here, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, in this tenth legislation, in 19 months, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group introduced 15%. That is, 37 initiatives led to the Central Government. Do you want me to tell you how many addresses to get the Miner Funds back or the Meirama thermal power plant, do you want me to tell you? Zero, zero, zero! Since President Sánchez ruled, that is, eight months from the Government of Sánchez, the parliamentary group presents 64 initiatives that urge the Central Government; 53% of all those presented. Can you be more hypocritical? Can you be more hypocritical? By the way, it's true, they've been presenting since Mr. Pedro Sánchez is two of the Meirama thermal power plant. Do you know what the position of the PSdEG Group was?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u84	Do you know what it was? We vote in favour of the first and we will vote in favour of this because we do commit ourselves to Galicia and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u86	Yes, I'm done now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u87	End, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u88	Just say that on January 31, 2015, the Natural-Fenosa Gas Council... here they are, the picture of Mr. Núñez Feijóo with President Gabarró. Here they are, right? It's not a lie. And I also bring here the press release to leave you to the presidency. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u89	A lot of documentation... I'm going out here very documented.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u90	I'll be right there. Please let me just finish my argument.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u91	Finish it, please, we're out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u92	It was committed to making an investment of nearly 100 million euros to adapt to the Meirama thermal power plant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u94	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u95	No, stop it now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u96	By the way, according to Galician Strategic Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u97	Two minutes about time, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u98	...and Europe 2020 strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u99	Time is up, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u100	Where's Galicia's energy strategy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u101	Time completed, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u102	Where is he? Tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u104	You answer me, Madam. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u105	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u106	Thank you, President. Good morning. Madam Novoa, the small exercise of cynicism that you bring to this House today! Cinism of the worst, because by reading his initiative and listening to his defense, any one would say, Mrs. Novoa, that you do not rule the Council of Galicia; anyone would say that they have no industrial competence; anyone would say that they didn't have the Government of the State until we had them a few months ago; and anyone would say, of course, that they are committed to employment in this country. Just see the industrial desert they leave behind! Just look at this: Alcoa, Ferroatlantica, Isowat... and so many others. Anyone would say you have nothing to do with it! What they're doing is, once again, abandoning their responsibilities, as they've been doing for so long, because the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant now announced by Naturgy is the chronicle of an announced death; a death announced before that neither the Government of Galicia nor the State that you had done anything when you had to do it. Today we are faced with a business decision that actually endangers a whole region. It's a decision before they had to act before, not now, it's late now. It was when they had to be working on an alternative plan, and they didn't. They had the responsibility of working on alternatives to employment and energy transition before they had on the table the destruction of jobs, and they didn't. On the contrary! When this issue was defended in this Parliament, what did the People's Party do? What he always does: voting against, against initiatives aimed directly at seeking alternatives for the people of these regions. You're against it! In that sense, his non-law proposal, besides cynically, is absolutely useless. It is not useful to solve the problem because it simply does not focus on the problem: the need to walk towards the energy transition, find new work alternatives and a new model of production and energy consumption. A model of the future for us to have the future, as the girls and boys of Friday are demanding for the future, giving a huge lesson of commitment and dignity that must be heard. That's why we're presenting an amendment that we understand is directed specifically to the matter we're dealing with. First. To urge the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Ecological Transition to form an immediate working group in which autonomous communities are integrated to analyse a more rational and sustainable energy transition model from an environmental, social and economic point of view. Second. To urge the Economic, Employment and Industry Council to set up immediately working groups in the most affected municipalities, the Councils of Pontes and Cerceda, with the participation of the local and autonomous administration, as well as of social, environmental and business collectives, budgeting them to develop strategic projects and plans for economic and training development that transform today's threats into opportunities, such as the one that can suppose for these councils the implementation of energy transition policies in the line of the European Union's marking. Third. Instigating the Ministries of Industry, Tourism and Ecological Transition to develop framework agreements for collaboration with the Galician Union and the Pontes and Cerceda Town Councils, according to regulatory bases, as aids for the economic drive of coal mining districts, through the development of infrastructure projects, degraded zone restoration projects because of mining activity and technical training programmes for workers and businesses. Measures already taken in the State budgets of 2018 at its additional provision one hundred and eighth. Fourth. To urge the Ministries of Industry, Tourism and Ecological Transition to incorporate the additional actions of projects of the successive sectoral plans of coal that were paralysed by the Government of the People's Party in 2012 into the Town Councils of Pontes and Cerceda, and which are awaiting liquidation. Action taken in the State budgets of 2018 at its additional provision one hundred and eight. Fifth. Include in the 2019 and 2020 budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia splits directly related to the promotion of business and training initiatives, mainly in the development of renewable energy and new technologies present in the energy transition in the municipalities of Pontes and Cerceda and its districts. Sixth. Insulting Endesa and Naturgy, taking into account the enormous benefits that have come to our natural resources while leaving serious environmental impacts in our country, to be part of business initiatives, especially in the development of renewable energy and technologies in the energy transition, in the municipalities of the Bridges, Cerceda and its districts. These initiatives would be part of the plans that companies would have to develop to ensure the maintenance of all the current jobs of the power stations. Specific measures which involve their government, which has direct competence in industrial matters, and does not throw balloons out and come here to speak of the Government of Sánchez. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, rule this country, count on this country!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u108	Thank you, President. Mr. Rivas Cruz, you're wrong to ask us to ask Naturgy for an energy transition. The energy transition is the responsibility of the central government, you don't have to ask a private company, ladies and gentlemen. They're wrong. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you ruled — go to the BNG Group and the PSOE Group — here you ruled with the Bipartite between 2005 and 2009. No, but we're going back at that moment, and at that time there were already... President... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u109	Quiet. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u110	I don't say a word, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u111	Yes, quiet. Everybody calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u112	Already in my first intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u113	We'll all be calm and calm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u114	That, to listen, now it's time to fit in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u115	You spoke, she shut up. Now it's up to you to listen, even if you don't like it sometimes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u116	Of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u117	This is the democratic game. All of us. She didn't like what they said either. I think.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u118	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u119	So we have to take it. You can't have a glass jaw in Parliament, you have to be able to listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, that's why. But now you must listen to yourself. You'll make up for your time, Mrs. Novoa, don't worry. Don't worry about it. You speak now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u120	See, between 2005 and 2009, twenty mining projects and five mine repair projects. They stayed in five, they reduced us to five, then only four left. At the same time, after we got to the government, between 2009 and 2012, I'm going to list to you the projects that led the Government of Greece at that time. One. A second supplementary agreement was signed; a third complementary agreement was signed; thirteen specific infrastructure agreements were signed and executed. Extension of the industrial polygon of Acevedo, Cerceda; sewage treatment station of Cerceda; circeda jeriatric center of Cerceda. Two agreements were signed for the drafting of projects that were executed: Sogama-Mesón do Vento link in Cerceda, Airi-Momán road. And two additional agreements have been signed. That's the difference between you and us, Your Honor, that's the difference. [[Applause]] Look, I have documentation here too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now we're going to move on to the government of the state, which has responsibility, and energy competition is its responsibility. So, look: Framework agreement for a fair transition of mining and coal. Sustainable development for mining regions for the period 2019-2027. Signed on 24 October 2018. Who ruled? 2018, Mr. Sánchez. Listen, listen... Page 1, I'll tell you the communities that are there, Aragon......signor... it's impossible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u121	Wait. I'm sorry. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I have to call her in order. I don't like it, but I have to call it in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u122	That's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u123	No, no, you continue now. The call to order is my jurisdiction. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u124	Look, Your Honor, Aragon, Castela-León, Asturias and a municipality of Puertollano. Where's Galicia? I beg you to work for Galicia to be included in those funds, in that agreement, Your Honor. It is that you now ruled and had the opportunity, both to criticize Mr. Rajoy's government! It's all right! It's okay not to recognize what you're doing. Look, Lady of the Tides of Podemos, you cogobern in Madrid and they didn't do anything. Where were they? Hidden, hidden when... not hidden, voting in favour of the budget. [[Murmurs.]] The assumption that aggravated Galicia, minus one, voted in favour, doubled to Mr. Pablo Iglesias. He doesn't send anything here and Mr. Pablo Iglesias sends it and you vote for it. That's the aggravation to Galicia, ladies and gentlemen. That's what you want from our community. And what did you guys do? Where did they claim? This initiative, since they rule there, could be presented at Congress. Where, what did they present? Zero, gentlemen. Do something. At least at those meetings that Mr. Iglesias and Mr. Sánchez have, that they speak a little bit about Galicia and do something about the Greek industries. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have the chance. You're accomplices. And you, for more reason, in the past legislation brought here an initiative to call for the closure of Galician thermal power stations. It's just that you have to recognize it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, look: it's irresponsible, demagogy and hypocrisy of yours, gentlemen. Of course this group won't accept your amendments. It's a very simple, very concrete initiative that calls for concrete solutions. And, of course, we're not going through there, ladies and gentlemen, and we don't agree with an improvised and erratic energy transition that clearly causes the decision not to invest in a company. Of course, those decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u126	...this uncertainty, they don't encourage the companies they invest in Galicia. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the Greek feminism and the women's strike calls of March 2019, as well as the demands to be made to the Galician Union in this regard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u128	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u129	Thank you, President. Speaking of companies that shut down, there are one hundred and few police workers worried at the door of this parliament that will not be received by the People's Parliamentary Group. So, they have one occasion, Mrs. Novoa, since she leaves, to try to receive them or talk to the counselor — it wouldn't be too much — for her to receive them. [[Applause]] Going to the question of this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, thousands of Greek women were the protagonists of a historical film. Greek feminism spurred an unprecedented mobilisation, absolutely different from any previous social initiative, first, by questioning women as political subjects, secondly, by being international and, thirdly, by transcending also in a pioneering way the scope of work. There was a job strike, yes, but it also focused on other areas that support the world and the economy thanks to women's over effort; two areas that depend primarily on us and which are constantly invisible by neoliberalism and patriarchy: the sphere of consumption and the sphere of care. A year ago we made history, and I'm convinced that this Sunday in Lugo and that next March 8th, the women of Greece are going to make history again, because feminism is unstoppable. [[Applause]] We are living a social change and of important mentality, and we must continue to push it forward, despite the attempt to re-appropriate the system itself and also of the opponents to strike on the same day, who saw their success, which exceeded all kinds of expectations. We know that despite all this the message has become clear, and that whoever asks us to calm down, we tell him that we are not calm, that we are in a hurry, because we are tired. And as it was expected, after this so great questioning of the patriarchal system, there was an attempt to re-establish that patriarchate; a revival of positions contrary to equality and that disguised as a false modernized merely hide a neo-machism that seeks steps back. This is also explained in an international context of the rise of fascism, where we saw how, for example, Argentine women were unable to see a transfer to obtain their right to abortion; we saw every day Brazil's women fighting against Bolsonaro's totalitarianism, and many other movements throughout the world. But it would be very petulant to think that we are free of similar problems and that we are not living here too, in Galicia and in the state, a re-arrangement of these Machist positions. And it's enough to remember what we were taught earlier than we were here, like Simone de Beauvoir, who warned us that we should not forget that a crisis, political, economic or religious would suffice, so our rights would be questioned again. She herself warned us that we should be vigilant, and the feminists of this country are vigilant. We are because we live behind our backs for a decade of recession that we pay with our over effort; we live as well as the alleged recovery did not bring a correction of that inequality, and we also see how in the face of a slowdown in the economy we will also be the ones who pay the consequences. Just as we paid the consequences of a 78 crisis regime that uses equality as a florist to promise, to promise eternally, like the issues we saw in the state pact, and then not to answer. That's why, because we're vigilant and because we're aware we're going back to strike this 8 March, to launch a warning that we're not prepared to allow a single setback in our rights; to denounce that equality is legislated but does not come to real life; to not allow us to have to listen to leaders of the People's Party saying that masquerading violence is domestic violence, and retrofiting us to previous decades, or that those who abuse simply are not doing well, thereby doubling this social problem. And so as not to allow ourselves not to be objected to, if we are childish, to be told that we don't know what we're carrying inside. Because, really, we know that machismo and ignorance should go back to a cave they were better than ever. [[Applause]] We're also going to strike to remind you that with our bodies, our decisions, there's nothing, we've won Gallardón's offensive. And the women of this country are going to defeat the offensive of that trident of Feijóo, Rivera and Married; we're going to tell them very loud and clear that no rights behind the abortion, nor are we going to allow the trafficking of children and children in the bellies of rent. [[Applause]] A year after March 8th, we've been taking this initiative since the BNG because we understand that it's also about balancing, balancing where we came from in this time. And we, in addition, in this sovereign chamber of the Greek people have a responsibility, the responsibility to ask ourselves a question: have the Greek Government answered the demands of the Greek women in the street? We have quite clear that no, that a year later the outcome of the evaluation is a suspension; in the examination of equality, the Government of the Feijó Nuñez government suspends. First, we see it in the constant attitude and recurrence of boycott and criminalization. A year ago we heard that there was nothing more machist than the feminist strike, we heard disqualifications day and night and so on. And it's curious how it bothers one more day in centuries of invisibility, mobilization and protagonistship of women, and it doesn't bother that much inequality. And past the strike seemed to correct a little, that they were somewhat concealing their speech, but the fact is that we see how not only today nor now we see an excuse for those absolutely embarrassing judgments, where you see the malicious attitude literally of the Greek Government about the right to strike, but they do reoccur, because even today there are allegations of the union forces in the face of the abusive minimum services that they are being imposed, because they have not learned, but I already tell them that the workers of this country are going to strike, they like it or not to the People's Party, and they're going to strike because they're coming up for reasons. [[Applause]] If we think, for example, in the area of care, it is obvious that the greatest economic capacity of the Galician Union has not been translated into an effort in public services for conciliation and also for dependence, but that continues to fall on women's shoulders. Today in our country there are seven times more women than men who claim not to seek employment because they are using their time in care tasks. A crack that increased in the government of the decade Feijóo. Because fifteen years after enacting the Equality Law is still science fiction these articles concerning conciliation. In the workplace, we also see more of it. We have a pay gap that in theory is illegal, but still the working Welsh women charge an average of more than four thousand euros a year than men, and if we go to the state divide, more than one thousand euros a year. Because we have this gender gap, but we also have the gap that causes a government that assumes a subordinate role and does not exercise the political power of this country. And that's the pay gap, that's the great example of that gap between what the laws say and what the reality says. And that's not done with live ties but with commitments. And the balance for the state and for the Galician Union is quite regrettable. We have neither the outdated labour reform nor the equal pay law, which we have voted too many times in this parliament for, and that the state forces have not turned into a priority, nor have we any single alternative on the table by the popular government. And the reality behind this is that we have precisely a feminization of poverty and that one in four women is at the threshold of the poverty line in the past year or that nearly 60 percent of the risk preceptors are women; precisely because this work framework impoverishes us. It is the logical consequence of predatory liberalism in labor relations that leaves us shocking figures. It could be my entire intervention by giving figures, but I'm just going to pick one. In the last year, in 2018, there were nearly 100,000 employees who didn't even reach half the SMI — the old SMI, 700 euros — nearly 100,000 workers in this country. That's almost the population we have in the city of Ourense. A hundred thousand women condemned to poverty by this economic and labor system. And since the BNG, we haven't complied with this picture, we don't comply with this brutal rate of temporality, we don't comply with leading the numbers either as far as the partial day and as many other examples as I could put on the table. With this picture, we don't agree with the steps we are taking against macho violence, because, as we have seen this past year, the political agenda of macho violence is reduced to ritualism by repeatedly naming a pact of state that is of little use to the women of Greece, because it was unable by the state to push those legislative changes that were relevant to us. With the exception of the issue of orphaned pensions for children and children who are victims of macho violence, we have made little progress in that picture. And in the meantime, we have a German Government that uses this alibi to continue justifying that it seems to him very much to devote one out of every 100 euros to macho violence. Of course, we have much more to do, and if the state doesn't move forward, we have to do so since Galicia. So for us the balance is a suspension and today we invite the Galician board to rectify, because the truth is it's going in the opposite direction. I was shocked today when I saw the institutional invitation, the act that convenes the General Secretariat of Equality, which directly convenes the president of the Galician Union for the next 7 March, where the title is: "Women asking for permission." I've already told them: "Don't calm down or excuse them; the women of this country don't calm down or leave them. [[Applause]] I'm done with a last thought. We, from the BNG, understand that it's time to break up with that which philosopher Melia Baltar called "egalism." We're aware that we've made a lot of progress in the last few decades, but it's not enough, it shouldn't be good enough to conform, because we know that patriarchy is chameleonic and that myxiosinia is still there. So today we want two issues from this chamber: firstly, to express our recognition and support for the German feminists, who are out there on the streets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u131	...makes us push policies to improve our lives, to support that strike and to reprobate Galician Union for its attitude in the past 2018 to continue in the same attitude, and to exaggerate it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u133	...a correction of those policies that are contributing to discrimination against women in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u135	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. The Socialist Party wants empowered women, they want capable women, they want free women and they want the same. We want ourselves and we claim to be equal this March 8th and always. [[Applause]] The truth is that since the Socialist Group we have been betting after the March 8 celebration of last year that would need an initiative like this year, I would sincerely bet you don't. We would undoubtedly believe that the government group last year, reluctant to get involved in unemployment and strikes, would have so internalized the message that it would be the first to practice throughout the year since the exemplaryness of their actions, but also their actions, their commitment to March 8. The reality is, it wasn't. Because the reality is, when it seemed that the message of the women had been understood, Mr. Married came, opened his mouth again and again and threw it all out of the ground. And in a last act of unbearably machist mindfulness, he dares to inform the women about what it's like to be pregnant. And this is only the last of many and varied insults to the dignity of women, recruited especially in recent times. So from our group we applaud this initiative, which was once in a world that we created that is close to wisdom and coherence, we would consider superfluous, but today at the political moment when it seems that ideology is already uninhabited has all the meaning. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has wagered and bet on defending women's rights to freedom and security. We know that public policies of equality are an instrument for improving, not only women's lives, but all citizenship, because when women move forward, they move on to society and democracy. There can't be a real transformation if you don't count on women in an essential way, their participation and their contribution. That's why, and with equality as a foundation, the socialists and the socialists banner measures for equality and, of course, accompany the feminist movement in all the achievements for women in Spain. Since last June, we have shown that spirit of the 8M and we have set equality from the Government of the State as a cross-cutting matter in the political agenda; a government that defends it by strengthening the progress achieved, in the face of those political positions that seek to eliminate them. And it reaffirms the need to continue to develop feminist policies from all ministries. Discrimination against women is taking place in all fields, including at work, where one of the greatest inequalities women live. In order to combat the wage gap, precariousness and discrimination in access to employment and vocational promotion, the Government has promoted a proposal for a labour equality law, which will help eradicate them. In gender inequality is really the result of gender-based violence, which in our country has ended with the lives of 984 women since 2003, when they start accounting for macho murders. And to end them, there is a need for specific instruments such as the Gender Violence Act, a pioneer in Europe. Trying to confuse her at this point with the housekeeper, as Mr. Married, is to return her to private space, invisibly her machist character. [[Applause]] And as for this government, gender violence is one of the main problems in our country, it has also launched the Covenant against Gender Violence as a priority, which has been enshrined in the Royal Decree of Urgent Measures passed on 3 August, and which includes important improvements to the situation of victims and their children. And since then a Law has also been passed for the formation and perspective of gender of legal operators, and it also works in a law that deals with prostitution and sexual exploitation in an integral way, following the abolitionist model of countries such as Sweden. Women have to choose their motherhood freely. That's why we won't allow the right to abortion to be jeopardized. In response to this, the Government has returned access to assisted reproduction to all women regardless of sexual orientation or marital status. The Socialist Party rejects—as we made clear yesterday—the renting bellies, because it undermines women's rights, especially the most vulnerable, by mercenizing their bodies and their reproductive functions. [[Applause]] That's why we also stand in the pursuit of the agencies that offer every year to hundreds of Spanish families this practice, forbidden in our country. Moving forward towards equality is therefore a responsibility that concerns us individually and as a society. For all this, in spite of the progress and all that remains to be made, the Socialist Group supports this initiative of strike and unemployment proposed by the feminist movement and the two major trade unions of UXT and the Labour Commission for 8 March, and will clearly and clearly stand in favour of this initiative brought to this Parliament today and which will support it without hindrance. Something we expect him to do with the government group as well. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u137	Thank you, President. Of course we will support this initiative. It has already been mentioned here that we have over a thousand reasons to go to the feminist strike; inequalities and violence go through and occupy our lives in every space, even in our own body, at work, at home, at school, in the media, also in political life in multiple forms. We also want to show that many times when we talk about violence, we focus on the most cruel, the most visible, that are, of course, the murders, but we also have to live with women in other, much more subtle ways, that often happen as normalized, and that they are, for example, paternalism and condescension. And against all of them, from the most visible to those that are too normal in our lives, we'll leave the women on March 8th. Twelve years have passed since the adoption of a very advanced legislation on equality, as was the Greek law of 2007, and we have to say that the problem is that this legislation is not met. Of course, there are articles of this legislation that need to be adapted to the current reality, some must also be developed, and in that we will be working on, but the fundamental problem is that many of these articles that are good in their own legislation are not being complied with. Like many statements that have emerged from this parliament, initiatives that have been adopted in this parliament. And this is unthinkable if we talk about other matters. If we talk about other matters, the Government puts all its strength in order to comply with the legislation. Why is it that when we talk about equality there is this disillusionment, this neglect, and can it be that the law itself is repeatedly being violated? There's a very obvious example, which is whether we talk about non-sexist language. Well, you just have to walk through many public centers, even to see that sexist language is still present, even within the administration itself. We believe that this is a matter of political will, because, as I say, with other issues, with other matters the legislation is strictly based, there is never this double rod of measurement. It is also demonstrated by the public policies that have been implemented in recent years, which have made women back on many rights, and also budgets. It is also — and we have to say so — that this non-law proposal was not necessary. Because asking a government to support the massive movement of women and not to stop a feminist strike, a fundamental right as the right to strike, because it shouldn't be necessary to bring this parliament. But we know, despite the fact that the president is lying, that Junta has violated this fundamental right, and it's not an opinion, nor is it an interpretation, it's a matter that has happened, and the judgments are in sight of everyone. Then I wanted to dedicate a minute of my intervention to talk about two issues that the president mentioned today, because they seem insulting to me: The first was that he said that the opposition never proposed anything in this matter, which only criticizes. I'd tell them to review the hemerothecs and to see how many initiatives on parental and maternity leave, sexual violence, violent trials, sexual and reproductive rights that the People's Party has vetoed in this parliament, both of our Maternity Group in Marea and the rest of the opposition groups. So, we're not going to let who's blocking and who's besides defending a leader of his party who's saying week after week Machist comments, that I don't know why they're so afraid to say; it's either they're unmarking these comments or they're covering comments that they're directly Machist. It's not a mistake, I think there's a political opinion of what you mean. I don't think Mr. Casado has a sprawling every week: domestic violence, to see if women... let a man come and tell us that women have to know what we're wearing in the belly, I don't know what words there are to describe that, because that's what Mr. Casado said. And I'd like to ask them if you agree with those statements, if you agree to talk about pensions and talk about the right to abortion, it makes sense to link those debates. Then he also spoke of all the women who are employed today, who are many and we must be very happy. And I wonder why when he talks about jobs and women he doesn't talk about the wage gap, which is the highest in recent years; why he doesn't talk about the precarious work women do; why he doesn't talk about the impossibility of conciliation. It is an insult that the People's Party speaks of conciliation policies, because in recent years the only thing they have done was to cut health benefits, social services, dependency, which, of course, the only thing they have done was to overburden the women of these jobs. So we told him to talk about all this, talk about the work situation of many women and talk about the women who work twenty-four hours a day, because there are women who work outside the house, with many worse conditions than men, and that when they get home most of them have to keep working free for other hours. Well, then they do something, because you've blocked, for example, a bill to equate parental and maternity rights, which was a proposal that the only thing you were looking for was to change your own roles as well, that we don't have to be the ones who have devoted ourselves to care since the birth of children, who are progressively equalizing themselves and that men are acquiring conciliation tasks. We think there's too much to go on. We have to talk about equality, and of course March 8th, but all year round. Feminist perspective is not a matter aside, it cannot be a stalemate of what is spoken only on certain occasions. The feminist perspective affects all areas of life: education, health, employment, absolutely everything. Every time we speak, every time there is an initiative in this parliament, all Members and all Members must bear in mind that the feminist perspective must be incorporated into absolutely all our proposals. And it's over: on March 8th, I think we women are going to teach again, we're going to show our strength, and we hope that the People's Party this year won't do what he did last year, which was just put a stop to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u139	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. "The Galician Parliament, on the occasion of the International Women's Day, which is commemorated on 8 March, wishes to state that the defence of equality must overcome the partisan differences and show its firm commitment to the eradication of any kind of discrimination or gender inequality that goes through women's lives in all areas, in various ways and through multiple mechanisms that prevent full equality between men and women. The Galician Parliament is committed to continuing its efforts to achieve real equality, to achieve a more fair society and to achieve full equality in all areas: employability, access to the labour market, equal opportunities, wage pay and the elimination of the glass roof, and to defend reconciliation and co-responsibility in the care of children and children and older persons. It's a lot of progress we've made, but we haven't achieved complete gender equality yet. In particular, we must continue to work on eradicating violence against women, and that is why we need to continue to articulate more measures, more resources and more conciliation. The Galician Parliament expresses its full commitment to the objectives which have always been pursued in the 8th of March and its full support for all persons who decide to participate in the claiming acts that will take place that day against all forms of discrimination and in defence of full equality between men and women. And remember that only since the political action unit can we move forward and contribute to the real and effective equality of women's and men's rights." This is the text of a draft of an institutional declaration passed to parliamentary groups. And the Galician Nationalist Block was the group that totally refused to approve this minimum agreement. Why? Because I wanted your motion for a resolution to be voted on today. What about your motion for a resolution today? The Galician Nationalist Block wants us to vote for a reprobation to the Galician Union, demand a correction of its policies to contribute to the continued inequality. No, ladies and gentlemen, we don't share that approach. And we cannot vote in favour of that proposal, because on the contrary: the Union is fighting with more means and more resources against inequality. This was a minimal agreement, far from partisan approaches, that you in the Galician Nationalist Block didn't even want to negotiate. Mr Feijóo, Mrs Quinteiro, is asking for proposals, and asking for proposals in the questions to the president, and not talking about drug trafficking in an equal question. The proposal to equate parental and maternity permits was unanimously approved by all groups of the House, was elevated to the Congress of Deputies, and there governs the Socialist Party in coalition with Podemos, which you are part of Podemos. Then ask your comrades in Madrid to do their homework. The Galician Union has exponentially increased budgets for equality. And as much as they repeat that lie won't become true, Mrs. Presas. Because you know that when you were in government you had the children's schools included in the budget of Equality, and if you take out the children's schools, and then I also tell you what has increased, which have multiplied by two resources for children's schools, in the programme 313D, that's what you have to compare: in 2009 there were 2.8 million, today there are 5.4 million euros; in children's schools we went from 2.9 million in 2009 to 11.5 million in 2018; the child's check went from 1.7 million in 2009 to 23.9 million in 2018; the maintenance of children's schools of the Consortium went from 25.6 to 38.3; in family education programs, from 1.1 to 2.6 million. We have approved a European Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan for four years, 2018-2021, with 848 million euros, more than 200 million euros a year. And do you guys just say we don't do 1%? 1% is over, ladies and gentlemen, it's over. Galicia is the second autonomous community where women's wages have increased. Galicia has the highest equal budget in Galicia's history. All, absolutely all, the indicators of equality are above. Is there room for improvement? Of course there's room for improvement? Now, by reprobating, as you wish, we're not going to get anything. There are things left to do. We must continue to work in defence of reconciliation, fighting for women's employability, eliminating maternal mobbling, eliminating sexual harassment at work, eliminating sexual assault on women and any kind of violence. These are the targets of the March 8 strike, and we, the People's Group and the People's Party, demonstrate our commitment to these targets. And we support all the people who decide to participate in the claiming acts that will take place on 8 March against all forms of discrimination and in which we will also participate. All political parties are responsible for the progress made in the field of equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u141	...but we're all also responsible for the goals that remain to be met, because we all rule in some administration. Because you — the Galego Nationalist Block — also rule in councils and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u143	And the Tides of Podemos, in town halls. I remind you, Mrs. Quinteiro, that Compostela Aperta is still failing the staff of the Women's Information Centre. He returned to the Women's Information Center without a psychologist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u145	Do we want to reprobate? We can reprobate. We think we need to keep moving forward and keep working positively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u147	...to continue to meet these objectives and to continue working and making proposals for equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u149	Reprobations, ladies and gentlemen, are of no use.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u151	The demands, all of them. And with those goals they're going to be with us. Now, by reprobating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u153	...what is not from receipt, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u155	Of course, Mrs. Prado, that the Galician Nationalist Block will not come out in a photo of institutional declaration with the People's Party as they continue to violate the Equality Act and the Law of male violence. Because precisely for what we have been chosen by the Greeks and the Greeks to the BNG is not for the ritual photos of March 8, it's to question why after decades and years of celebrations we follow with the same inequality rates. [[Applause]] For that they chose us, not to come here to stop their parliamentary filibusterisms, because that's what they call an institutional statement for this reason once it is known that the Galician Nationalist Block incorporates this initiative into the agenda. Yes, yes... and if In Marea wanted that photo with the People's Party, because very well, but we, of course, will not allow it. [[Applause]] We're not going to whiten out the People's Party while it's not up to what it has to do, Mrs. Prado. We're not going to wash his face while the reality is that you're not exercising your political power to end discrimination against women. [[Applause]] Because, indeed, this strike has an eminently political character. Because it is political to question patriarchy, because it is political to question the economic and social system. Of course you do! [[Applause]] And we claim that policy, of course! [[Applause]] And we're not going to give them that picture as long as it looks like 1 out of every 100 euros specifically for masculine violence, Mrs. Prado. Because behind the picture and behind these purple ties — which are very well on the government president's appeals on March 8th and November 25th — there is behind that, the real world where we have that 95% of the contracts on behalf of women last year were temporary, where we have almost half of the contracts registered on behalf of women lasted less than one month in 2018 and a long et cetera. Because behind that policy-fiction, which can't get the pay gap, because it's legal, it's not real. So we have in our country that workers have a gap above 21% and pensioners a gap over 36%. That is the consequence of that criminal alliance between patriarchate, economic system and political inoperation. We, of course, are against all those issues, we are far from conformism. And it would be conformityism to come here with an institutional statement when this is the House of the Greek people and we can drive initiatives today that bet on a different future. They'll have us there, because we also have to balance. We are repeatedly asked for proposals. And I have to remind you again that, only in the last year, two feminist laws driven by the Galician Nationalist Block the People's Party said no. The only question to which they said "yes" -- we're moving forward -- was that they said "yes" to extend the aid to macho violence by recovering a line that you were charged with in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u157	It's true, it's not true. The stretch that the Bipartite had was wider yet, and we couldn't get to that amplitude. But at least women who are not multimillionaires and have more than 1.5% of IPREM, thanks to the political impulse of BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u159	...they can turn to those aids for macho violence. I'm done, ladies. There are the consciences of everyone, but, of course, the BNG is clear that this Sunday and March 8 will be on the street with Greek feminism supporting its social mobilization, which really prevents the Galician People's Party in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u161	...don't dare reveal any more setbacks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u163	...from the retrofits that have already taken us. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u164	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to improve the conditions of workers in the home and request the Government of Spain to include them in the general social security regime and in the Staff Regulations, as well as to sign Convention 189 of the International Labour Organization
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u165	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u166	To put the question, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u167	Thank you. I'm just going to devote a minute to the previous debate to explain that we presented an institutional statement of support for the feminist strike and there was no answer. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u168	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u169	An alternative text that had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u170	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u171	No, that alternative text I already know. But don't say it's a counter proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u172	Mrs. Prado, be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] The issues are already under discussion. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u173	Well, that doesn't seem like an answer to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u174	Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u175	Well, okay. And there's a second point I wanted to do. It seems good to us — and I don't know if they've changed their mind, but here the Union has the power to speak about parental and maternity permits — and we put forward a bill and voted against it. And now he's here to talk about Congress. If they have changed their mind, we have no problem bringing it back and seeing if, with their competences — if they have changed their mind — they now accept that these permits are equal and untransferable. And I've already gone to the point, the first thing we have to say is that hopefully we didn't have to bring this initiative, I hope we didn't have to be having this debate. Because it's unfortunate that at present we have to be demanding as basic conditions as the ones we make in this non-law proposal. The situation in which home workers are working is unacceptable. They live a reality marked by precariousness, low wages, invisibility, constant discrimination and exploitation. On 8 March 2018 — and this year will be again — the rights these workers claimed have been properly visible. And also if he has brought to light all that work that remains hidden, the work of care, which is hidden and invisible, both what is done free of charge and what is done in a paid way, in a precarious way. Looks like there's jobs that only come when you don't. It's the only way to get around. And this is one of those works that, as I say, remain invisible. Women spend a lot of hours scrubbing, cooking, cleaning, taking care of... many hours of free work and also many hours of very poorly paid work. And the reason that this sector is going through the most absolute precariousness is that it's a job done by us, by women, that is totally underestimated. And we should really give this work the value it has because it's essential for life's own support. We're talking about that something more than 26,000 people — about 95%, women — are legally registered in Galicia in the special scheme for social security workers. But this data doesn't pick up reality, much less. It is estimated, by unofficial data, that about 70,000 women work in our country on this job. And the problem is that this figure is only an approximate data, which we can't faithfully know about reality because it's an area where we lack in-depth studies that tell us how this work is. That's why just one of our proposals is to evaluate what's happening. How many women actually work in this sector? How much do these women charge? How many are insured? How many aren't insured? How many are interns? And I'm going to stop for a few seconds to talk about this reality. To me this reality of the interns is something that should be completely over. It's a situation of semi-slavery or slavery. Women cannot be allowed to spend 24 hours a day without rest doing multiple tasks. Because this is one of the problems, they're going to clean up, to take care of the house. But often they also devote themselves to the care of people, both children and older people, without higher pay; often women who live 24 hours — as I say — locked up in the same house. And I'm telling you that you can do an investigation, you can search out job ads, you can call some of these ads about the salary that many of these women earn. Just to give them two examples: daily work of more than 40 hours a week, 550 euros; 12 hours a day, from 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. work without rest. And the question of when you're going to rest -- every fifteen days, every three weeks? -- the answer is: No, well, if you need some day, on time, you can get some rest. This is happening in our country, and before that, we must take the necessary measures. And the problem with not knowing reality is that, as you know, a lot of people still don't have access to all rights, because they're out of contract. According to the survey of active population, in the Spanish State 1 group of 3 people in the sector — according to the latest data we know — they continued at this time in the submerged economy. In 2011 progress was made, two relevant issues took place. On the one hand, the International Labour Organization approved Convention 189, an agreement that opened the door to improve the situation of domestic workers. There are already more than twenty-five States that have acceded to this agreement. The Spanish State has promised on numerous occasions that it is going to join, but today it has not done so. And, on the other hand, in 2011 a Royal Decree also regulated for the first time the employment relationship of a special nature of work in the home. And the problem is that it's just that it's special, different, and that the advances — although they were important and many — were totally insufficient. There are a lot of issues that have been covered by this decree: the right to unemployment insurance, the non-restriction of the working day to 40 hours, the recognition of the realization of overtime or the exclusion of the Labour Risk Act. In addition, these women can be fired at any time for loss of confidence, and the compensation they charge is much lower than that paid by any other employee or employed worker: eight days less — twenty days charge the rest of the workers, and they charge twelve days a year employed. A matter that's blatant, an inequality that has no logical reason but the constant undervaluement of the work that women do. And the worst thing was we got back. They didn't get all the rights, but we got back. In 2012, with the arrival of the People's Party to the Government, legislation was even more limited by a new decree that exempts employers from giving up employees who worked for them less than 60 hours a month. But this was not just the attack of the People's Party on these workers. Recently, in recent general budget projects, Amendment 6777, which is very well known, was introduced because it asked for the postponement of the balance to the general regime, which was scheduled for 2019, to be done until 2024. For us this amendment is an insult, it shows the little will that they have to solve the problems of this sector so precariously these women, and it's a joke for all the women who were waiting from 2011 to 2019 for this match to be made. In all those years nothing has been done to improve this situation, and in 2018 it is requested that this match be posted even further, until 2024. And the everyday reality these women live is that many women can't even afford to get sick, they can't even afford to go to work because they're sick, they can't afford to rest, or they're even afraid to be fired when they're pregnant. Because, unlike other workers and workers, these women have the lowest benefits, they have fewer rights than the rest of the workers, and in addition, many cannot even claim that they comply with the law because, as I said, they could be victims of this dismissal, which, as I said, has much less compensation, and would also not have the right to unemployment benefit. The story of these workers is marked by promises. They've been listening to promises for many years about everything that's going to be done, a lot of delays in launching reforms that should have been done for a long time. It is not acceptable for them to continue to wait for these reforms. Equalization has to be done right away, it's not acceptable to be posted absolutely not another day. Ratification of Convention 189 must also be done immediately, it should already be done. We don't understand why today it hasn't signed up, but of course, now we have to demand that it be done as soon as possible because the current situation is of absolute precariousness in working life. And unfortunately, even when they're pensioners, they have a very bad situation, the lowest pensions in all sectors. Many women have poor pensions because obviously they can't contribute completely. So what we have to do is take these women's demands seriously, which are being organized. When it was Amendment No 6777, the women gave a lesson and were focused on the front door of Congress to bring this amendment down, because the solution is very simple: treating this job as the rest of the jobs, the same work, the same salary. It's not acceptable that, as women, because it's a job that's going to be undervalued so many years, these women have less rights. These are tasks, as I said, that sustain life. You have to value it, you have to pay it and you have to provide it with the same rights as the rest of the workers. There's a lot of action that can be taken. We present some, which we consider more urgent, and we hope this initiative will be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. Mr Otero Rodríguez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u177	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We fully agree with the description made by the spokesperson for En Marea: it's still a job, that of the home service, undervalued and with little work rights. During this time, indifference and indifference on the part of both the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, along with the 2012 labour reform, favored the reversal of labour rights and systematically prevented its extension into a totally precarious sector, without the protection and social coverage that have other economic activities and, as has been said here, without the right to unemployment or to cover gaps in the calculation of pensions or real wage contributions. The high number of senior social security workers registered in 2012 with the Domestic Service Regularization Act — thus 7,170 workers — fell into membership. That's why, of course, we agree and believe that it is very necessary to have a consensus plan with social agents to reduce the precariousness of work among household workers in Galicia. And this parliamentary group, which did not change its opinion and position depending on who's government in Madrid, we've been asking for ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 189 and we're still asking for it today. Convention 189 on the Equalization of Domestic Labour was signed in 2011 and has now been ratified by more than twenty-five countries. [[Applause]] It should be recalled, however, that on 8 May 2013, in the Committee on Employment and Social Security of the Congress of Deputies, a transactional amendment to the non-law proposal on the ratification of this convention was adopted unanimously. I repeat again, the commitment was unanimously approved in 2013 despite the fact that the Government of Spain, the government of Mariano Rajoy, until June 2018, after more than five years since this agreement, was unable to bring it to its ratification in Congress. But in addition to Mr Rajoy's null and void commitment to improving the conditions of workers in the home sector, the Popular Parliamentary Group in this House also voted against ratifying this agreement when this Socialist Group brought it to Commission 5th. We, ladies and gentlemen, did not change our minds, and we were in favour of ratifying it earlier, when Mariano Rajoy ruled, and we were still in favour of ratifying it today. [[Applause]] If you are now — because the People's Party in its amendment also requests ratification of this agreement — it is because you believe and understand that it is fair and necessary to sign it. But let's be consistent, because this commitment of ratification was already in the 2019 General Budget Act of the State and you voted against it. In view of the Socialist Government's willingness to ratify this Convention 189 of the International Labour Organization and that the Government of the PP, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, in more than five years, was unable to bring its ratification to the Congress of Members of the PP, ladies and gentlemen, if they wish to ratify this Convention 189. Vote for the Socialist Party in the forthcoming elections and the Socialist Government will ratify this convention. [[Applause]] It must be remembered that Mariano Rajoy's executive did not advance towards the equalization of these rights despite being ordered by him to reform this type of employment approved by the Government of Mr. Zapatero just before leaving the Government in 2011. The law demanded that a group of experts be set up to study the feasibility of unemployment protection for household workers within one month of their entry into force, but the Government of Mariano Rajoy never constituted this commission. Now the Popular Group comes here also asking for the inclusion of the special scheme of home workers in the general regime. But you have to be very hypocritical, when the People's Party itself tabled an amendment to its 2018 general budgets, which, with Amendment No 6776, succeeded in bringing into budgets a delay in the integration of these workers into the general regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you change your opinion more than reptiles often of skin or color. We believe that this special regime should be incorporated into the general regime, but that is why we are presenting in the amendment that we believe it is necessary to transfer to parliamentary groups representing the Congress of Deputies the need to transform that special working relationship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u179	...—I have finished, Mr. President—and their inclusion in the general regime. And we believe that this need must be transferred to parliamentary groups, since legislative amendments are very and very necessary. And these changes are being made there at the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u181	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. On behalf of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u183	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. I, Mrs. Quinteiro, just want to tell you, do you know any maids in the house or any commercials where you talk or invite yourself to that semi-slavery job, report it. You have to report it if you know that something like this is happening in our country, because it would be, of course, shameful that you didn't take action if you knew that this is happening. And to talk about precisely In the Marea of pensions, the precarious situation of the women employed in the home when they retire, it's curious. Because, after two and a half years of working on the negotiating table with regard to the Toledo Pact, precisely to improve the pensions of the widowed women — they are mostly women, as you well know — or the pensioners who have the lowest pensions, you were the first to break this negotiating pact on the Toledo Pact. With which, don't come here to tear your clothes apart, when I'm the first to put sticks on the wheels. Well, to focus on my intervention, the question is very clear: what have you been doing during these eight months that are ruling — who are, because you are still ruling — with Mr. Pedro Sánchez? They were able to resolve this issue and come to the Galician Parliament to request that we ratify International Labour Organization Convention 189 to improve the conditions of household workers, and also to derogate the special working relationship and immediately include household workers in the general social security regime. I wonder what they're doing in the Government of Spain. Of course, this hypocritical policy of bounity no longer sells, no one buys it for them. It will not be the People's Parliamentary Group who has responded to this. It is the PSOE government partners who ask, like Mrs. Yolanda Díaz — I suppose you will have knowledge. And there's a government response to the Congress of Deputies in November and September, which responded to this anxiety that En Marea has. Because it seems you have to come here to know what they're told. Look at the response to this request that you make is very clear: "This integration of gaps will take effect from the year 2023, at which time this special system will be fully matched with the rest of the workers in the general social security regime." I repeat that it is a response from the Socialist Party to a request from its government partners in Madrid. And, with regard to the ratification of Convention 189, the Government's response is also very clear: "The existence of possible inadequacies with domestic law has been revealed. A group of experts has been considered to address the issues expressed that are appropriate to the objective described." I quote textual words. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we will vote that if we approve the workers of the home with the rest of the workers of the social security system and the worker's status, then our amendment. And we also voted that if we were to open a dialogue table with the sector's organizations to improve the working and living conditions of the household workers and comply with the existing statute. And the People's Party will also support domestic workers by ratifying International Labour Organization Convention 189. I leave for the end, not because it's less important, its first point, its first request: to carry out a study, that the Galician Union conducts a study and, on the basis of that study, to know whether you have to put yourself on the table and carry out awareness-raising jobs just to end these topics that have the household employees, as if they were employed as a third party. Look, I'm going to report to you all the studies, which aren't very few or very detailed, of all there is: Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the year 2019 — which has just come out of the oven and which specifically deals with this issue — to break the wage gap. It is also UGT's 2019 report — also out of the oven — to reduce the wage gap, priority; Intermon Oxfam's report and the Social Rights Laboratory of the Universitario de Genero Institute of Carlos III University of Madrid of 2018 — recommending that he read it, because it is very interesting—.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u185	I'm going to finish. There is a study on the presence of women in irregular employment and doctoral theses of the University of Valladolid and of the University of Salamanca worthy of taking off our hat; and also the participation of women in Spain, of the Economic and Social Council, of this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u187	...of the year 2019. And, by the end, the People's Party, of course, will vote that it will improve the working conditions of the household workers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u189	I'm excited. I have to tell the opposition's voices and voices, in case they're wide open and wide, that I'm excited. Because despite all the lies that the People's Party spoke here, he ended up quoting union reports. So I guess, from now on, the People's Party recognizes the reliability of union reports and will stop blaming the opposition when we bring that data. That's what we beat him today. That's what we've earned him, because, of course, the whole balance isn't going very well. [[Applause]] This debate therefore blacks out the issue that we denounced in the previous debate. It's that difference between equality that is proclaimed every 8 March in those so pompous and so bloating institutional declarations and what's next at the time of reality. And it also places black on white what little value society gives to the female work of care. We can see it in the lack of interest in dignifying it, regularizing it and providing it economically with its value. And that's despite what it really means in economic terms, in terms of development. He said it before and I repeat it now, and it is that the world would not spin without that hidden work that many women do in this country, not only in their personal lives, but in conditions of semi-slavery — when not of slavery — these roles of domestic workers. And this is ignored by the fact that we already know how much it costs, how much it is worth in terms of GDP, for example. Because, for so many data given to the lady of the People's Party, she forgot that, thanks to the impulse of that government of seven heads and horns, of the Bipartite, we had a first satellite account of the IGE that gave us data on this -- and it continued to do another one recently. That tells us that would represent 50% of GDP in Galicia. We're talking about 28 billion euros, it's the estimate of what economically this invisible work means, 28 billion euros! And we're talking about German data. So it's clear how here the class issue, the question of work and gender, has an important weight. The story of the work of the workers at home is the story of the invisible, it's also the story of the failure of governments, by the central government and also by the disgruntling of the Galician Union. Here I was asking the lady of the People's Party to do some in the last eight months. I repeat: we have the same demands, whoever is in the central government and with the responsibilities it is with. And the truth is, they haven't taken enough steps, but they haven't taken enough steps by the German Government to put this issue in the debate either. Because it was also very critical of the Socialist Party's lady with the point that she talks about research, information and so on, but I wanted to put a question on the table, making a bit of parliamentary archaeology, so that we are aware that this debate is not born yesterday with the government of Pedro Sánchez, it is born early with the government of Mariano Rajoy, it is not born either with the ILO agreement — which, if I am not mistaken, and I am speaking of memory, is from 2011 – but it comes from a lot earlier. And also in this Greek Parliament, because, by doing so a little of parliamentary archaeology, I have redeemed this agreement of the year 2003 — Mrs Quinteiro and I were in high school. It's 15 years ago, more than 15 years ago. Fifteen years ago in this House I was pushing the Galego Nationalist Block, my admired Pilar García Negro, initiatives in favour of this collective, which were not fully contemplated but if a consensus was reached that involved the whole House. And this initiative was presented jointly by the spokespersons of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia then. I am convinced that, if I were in Marea, I would have also contributed to improving this text. In this text the spirit of many things that we are debating fifteen years later, fifteen years later! Then they wonder why BNG doesn't want to go out on institutional statements with the People's Party. It's just, uh, apply the story a little bit. [[Applause]] Also in this respect I will no longer go into detail, which have summarized very well the two spokesmen, the Socialist Party and En Marea, of the shame of this government, who pretends on the one hand to move forward in this direction and who then presents this regrettable amendment to the 2018 budgets. [[Applause]] The history of the People's Party in the Government of the State is to speed up the first measures they promised for January 2019 and, when it approached 2019, oh, surprise!, they said: We have to put something into the 2018 budgets, that this goes away from us and these women will have such crazy rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u191	...how to have holidays or unemployment. So they wanted to take this to 2024. In other words, the year of March 8, history, of this social mobilization, the response of the People's Party was to delay the conquest of these rights until 2024.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u193	That's the summary of defamation and shame, and how little these lilac ties are worth every day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u195	I'm beginning to think about the amendments and say I won't accept them. And, actually, the first thing I have to say is that it's amazing that they deny the reality that I'm reporting here. If you have a problem, if you don't know the reality that many women live in our country, take a look at the papers, take a look, make some calls, talk to the women who work, see how much they earn and see how many hours they work. Or are they denying that there are internals in this country charging for misery? How many hours does an intern work? I don't know. Do you work 40 hours a week? No, he works a lot more and they charge a lot of misery. But you deny reality, and besides denying reality, you do absolutely nothing to change it. They have a serious problem with... - I don't get the word out now - of being very disconnected from the reality that many women live in our country. And, precisely speaking of pensions, we oppose ourselves, because it is you who want to reduce the pensions of widows. So you have to have a lot of faces to come here and talk about it. If they want, we vote in private and each parliamentary group is represented and what they defend in front of pensioners and pensioners. Because we have no problem with that. But what we're not going to do is to allow pensioners to claim even more in their rights in our country. We are pleased that some points of this initiative are going to be adopted, but we do not understand that there are so many obstacles to some of the issues and that, in addition, if it is so hypocritical in the interventions. First, precisely, that we have to talk about union studies that talk about wage cracks — because you haven't mentioned specific studies — realize that the administration doesn't do that. The unions do their work, but the administration also has to do its work. Let's talk about reports from the unions, the truth is... What a shame! Because what they're going to have to do is self-criticism and say, "Well, no, there's no studies from the Galician Union to figure out the situation. And the unions themselves, the unions themselves, report that there is no data available to know reality, report that it is necessary to know how many women are given up, how many women are not given up. And they obviously need administration support. They had plenty of time to ratify Convention 189 since 2011. This is the year 2019. Well, let's be glad you're now defending the ratification of this agreement. As the Socialist Party's spokesman put it, they changed their mind. We, of course, are not going to change our demands, whether the People's Party or the Socialist Party is in government. Women's rights are not negotiable and we're going to insist that, as far as they're concerned, they won't make us step back. It is very hypocritical that you come here also to speak of the approval to the general regime, that you defend this approval, after the amendment they tabled to the 2018 budgets. So I wonder why they presented that amendment. It just doesn't make any sense. You didn't have any shame in asking for the delay until 2024...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u197	...when since 2011 nothing has been done, practically nothing. And then we celebrate they're going to approve something. But they also take note, because they don't want to study on the part of the Galician Union, it's embarrassing, because, just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u199	...that he had to come here to talk about other studies -- not just one of his own administration since the year they've been ruling -- because he is quite aware of the reality and what they care about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and seven other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia and to call on the Government of the State to promote equal employment for women and the reconciliation of personal, family and work life
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u201	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Galicia and also at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u202	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u203	Good morning again. Just to answer Mrs Quinteiro's last sentence, which tells us we're hypocrites, I think we don't have an organization secretary like Podemos in Spain, who has staff on duty without a Social Security contract. You come here to talk about hypocrisy... I think you're going to give little example of anything, ma'am, little example of nothing. [[Applause]] See who the hypocrite is. I want to begin my intervention by saying that the proposal is very ambitious, and I think there are laws and proposals that change lives and that can change our world. Let's not miss that opportunity today. This is the 8th of March, most of the initiatives are equal and, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to leave nothing behind. As I said, this proposal is very ambitious. It may have fallen, because, as you know, there are three points in it that the Central Government is urged to take a number of measures. But that's not so, it's not because, even though Mr. Sánchez had called the general elections, he was already registered. And we don't know what's going to happen in the central government. But we want to continue with her because we're going ahead with whoever's in the government. We have this very clear, we know the line to follow, we know what we want in the matter of equality. From the People's Party we are ambitious, innovative, and we want equality to continue to evolve, as is the work of the Galician Union. I'm going to break down my proposal in two parts: on the one hand, a challenge to the Unity of Galicia and, on the other, to the State Government. And we're talking about collaboration with local authorities, reconciliation and co-responsibility, momentum from time and rural banks. We are talking about integration of labour, social-initiative bodies and businesses; as we see, equality in a cross-cutting way. And we're also talking about autonomous compliance with the State Pact measures, which I'm going to talk about for the kid. And, of course, by the hand of the Government of the State, we want there to be this 2019 a wage equality law to end the gender pay gap between men and women. We want to promote the law of reconciliation and co-responsibility, where time rationalization is prioritized, so necessary and that it will change the lives of the whole society in our country. How much better it would be if this law started! We also want all measures of the State Covenant to be complied with, of course, with all necessary legislative reforms in the Central Government. With regard to the Galician Union, it was the vice-president himself who informed of the progress of the work being developed: budgetary increase for the municipalities, with more than EUR 5.4 million, 16%; reconciliation of personal, labour and family life; comprehensive treatment of gender violence; support for women's information centres; awareness, information and dissemination on equality and prevention and fight against male violence. Of course, social inclusion and the fight against poverty are also promoted. Let's remember that most of the poor are women, women who have children in charge and who are single-parent families. As far as the State Covenant is concerned, we are in Galicia. I think we have to have a very high head, because, in our autonomous community, of the 103 measures that must be carried out, 72 of them are met and 31 of them have a firm commitment: to extend the Galician Network of Reception; care and support for orphans; the reinforcement at the centre of emergencies; work with the Federation of Rural Women; special support in rural areas, so important due to the dispersion of our territory; push the coverage of the four Galician provinces against sexual violence — of course, taking into account the new technologies and campaigns so important that they are being done at parties and in all celebrations of our autonomous community, with an application, since also the new technologies are very important, which is the application "Aggression off" against violence, which can be moved by a geolocalizer within the mobile phone itself. There is also an integral plan for access to housing, through monthly aid, where, as they were saying, there is an increase in this aid thanks to the adoption of a non-legislative proposal in this Parliament. Let us remember that today — I want to remind you here — the Vigo Town Hall has not yet joined the empty housing program of the Galician Union, and many women of the Vigo Town Hall, where poverty rates are the worst in Galicia, women with children in their position, have to go live to other municipalities because they have neither this aid nor this program implemented in Vigo City because it comes from the hands of Galician Union. And we know what's going on in Vigo Town Hall. The increase in economic aid within the budget of the Union is more than EUR 4.5 million. With regard to education, research, work at the university and in the field of education, it is fundamental and basic. And, of course, with regard to the media, the work being done and the focus is being put on the table, since many of the audiences in the Equal Opportunities Study Committee thus reflected on the need for training and there had to be an important awareness in the training of journalists, in the media and in the audiovisual media in a specific way. Of course, working with women's associations, neighboring federations and all public and private entities. As I said, we don't want to leave anything behind, ladies and gentlemen, and since the People's Party we have a commitment to end wage inequality. We know it's not a new subject, it's not a topic today, it's an issue yesterday, but unfortunately it's also going to be a subject tomorrow. We are talking about the Proposal for an Integral Law on equal pay and transparency between men and women, presented by the People's Group at the Congress of Deputies in October 2018. The Socialist Party also presented a bill to ensure equal treatment and opportunities between women and men in employment and occupation, which we support from the People's Party. Because whenever there is an important and good initiative, the People's Party will hand it over to whoever submits its proposal. With the Government of the People's Party, the data are clear and positive, and they are responsible for the citizens: the salary divide has been placed in historical minimums, it has managed to be the country of the euro area which has reduced the most wage divide; for the first time we regulate the right to teleworking, the right to short-term reduction, the part-time contract, where protection has been equal to full-time. That is, ladies and gentlemen, to move forward in reconciliation with responsibility and employment, and we want you to keep moving forward. We know that the Socialist Party during these eight months of government with the We can penalize the women and men of this country, increases the spending excessively, increases the taxes on self-government, businesses and workers, increases the recruitment and increases the deficit and indebtedness. And I'm not saying it. Since Mr. Pedro Sánchez is President of the Government, the data are very clear: about 5,000 women a month have lost their jobs since Mr. Sánchez is President of the Government, and more than 8,000 men in this country have lost their jobs. A total of 39,456 women stopped more and 65,272 men stopped more in just eight months of government. They don't like the lords of Podemos. [[Applause]] We have a challenge, ladies and gentlemen, a responsibility, not only to women, but also to men, also to families, and hence the law of reconciliation and co-responsibility arises. Just to set an example where we find ourselves. The usual hours in Europe are: Germany starts its working day at eight o'clock in the morning and ends at 4:30 p.m.; the United Kingdom starts its working day at 8:30 p.m. and ends at 5:00 p.m.; Italy starts its working day at 8:00 p.m. and ends at 5:00 p.m.; Spain starts at 9:00 p.m. and ends at 7:00 p.m. What today is president of the government, the politics of the window, sold that this was going to have a change, but, of course, the reality is that there is none. From the People's Party we don't want them trying to sell us anything, because we don't believe them. What we want is to open a dialogue to achieve this pact, this national law for working reconciliation and time rationalization, to achieve a more compact and flexible working day. And we want the consensus of all the political, economic and social forces that will allow the end of the working day generally at six o'clock; the gradual extension of the duration of the child care surplus period in the case of many families, which are those who have these needs; the encouragement of the collective agreements formulas to make the day work more flexible; the possibility of having a certain number of days of vacations as an hour bag for own affairs; the implementation of teleworking formulas, completion, lordships, with the obsolete culture of presence; and the promotion of children's schools and educational centres to adjust their opening hours to the working hours of the country in collaboration with the autonomous communities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I began: there are laws and proposals that change lives and that can change our worlds, we do not miss this opportunity today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u204	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u205	It has almost some poetic justice that we debate this initiative last place before we proceed to the vote, and it's a shame that the candidatures for Master Matthew are closed, because the truth is, seeing the hypocrisy acts that the People's Party has, seems to be this debate of rationalization of schedules, of the salary divide and so on, we arrive today, and it seems that they and they have arrived yesterday in the Government, and there is no decade. [[Applause]] Anyway... I said you have poetic justice that goes last, and that the lady of the People's Party had also repeated so many times that it was an ambitious initiative, because, of course, I was so worried to talk about Pedro Sánchez that he forgot to talk about that this initiative was inspired by Pablo Casado, but not because we were discussing all morning, not because of Mr. Pablo Casado's backward positions, but because I would define as Juan Carlos I style, is the practice of copy party cutre and plaxio. So I wanted to apologize here in this chamber, because I've said many times that this VII Strategic Plan of Galicia for equality between opportunities of women and men 2017-2020, of which you've still talked a few hours ago the President of the Council of Galicia, I've said many times that it's useless and that it's wet paper. But in preparing for this initiative, I have had a revelation: there is a utility, there is a utility of this plan, which is that the forty-one Members and one of the Members of the People's Party who do not want to waste time on equality, and waste time on working an initiative, take literal paragraphs and put them in their PNL. And I'm going to leave this before they accuse me of lying to keep it on tape. [[Applause]] It is a pity that later people who transcribe the Journal of Sessions cannot put a link or a QR code to compare, because paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the People's Party correspond to page 3 of this plan; it must be said that this is the page of Wheel's Welcome, which I can understand to enter into political discourse. [[Applause]] But paragraph number 4 matches page number 93; paragraph number 5 with page 94; paragraph 6 with page 96. Maybe a hundred pages of this plan were read, because something they could learn from what they're not doing, though they put it on paper, but in paragraph 7, like a whole metaphor from which they take us, there's a retreat and they go back to page 6. [[Applause]] Then, in paragraph 8, you have to say that they innovate, innovate, and take a paragraph from the meeting of Galicia in November 2018. [[Laughter]] That's why they want to make institutional statements, to have such a creative acquis. [[Applause]] And I think the last three lines are their own harvest. That's the People's Party's effort to bring initiatives to this camera on March 8, three lines. [[Applause]] And, man!, since in this chamber we stop the voices so many times, especially from the opposition, that we don't know how to read, add, multiply, that we're not economists, or medical experts, or experts from so many other fields, I'm going to allow myself a license as a philologist, although I already think that in primary and ESO it's also explained. When quoted, it is ugly not to comment or not to put a bibliographic reference. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, this is a good summary of the unheard effort that these forty-one Members and one of the honourable Members, who remind us that they have, have applied to this initiative. But as we take our work seriously, we present a battery of ambitious amendments, so that this initiative, which is absolutely not ambitious, may have something serious. At the first point, what is asked is a recognition, because that question that tells us about time banks, I want to remember that it is something that has come in the Equality Act since 2007, and in Decree 182/2008, that is, eleven years ago. By the way, and I open a parenthesis, who was ruling in 2008? who brought out that decree that you now 11 years later want to put into practice? [[Applause]] I leave the question there for those who listen to us. We also set numerical targets for conciliation, because, of course, here you come to regret that in the state you have not achieved a conciliation law. It's a pity you've been here since 2011 or you haven't voted in the Greek Parliament that Galicia had a co-responsibility law itself, as BNG pushed in the previous legislation. [[Applause]] Anyway, we haven't lost hope, Mrs. Míguez. So we also added the request to demand that we not comply with the Law on Male Violence, to create a valedor of equality to ensure that such legislation also applies in the matter of equality, and lastly also, because it went out here on the other plan that we were promised after 8 March, because to see if the evaluation report is made, which has not yet been referred to us, to see if they do so and if they forward it. Finally, another question that we understand is fundamental: to see if we stop bragging about the state pact and start asking for improvements and, therefore, to correct this discrimination that exists with the Greek municipalities in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u207	Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when they abandon conformism and when they stop using those plans that are paid with public money to consultants to do them, to do their initiatives, and start to meet the points that are gathered there, because maybe we can talk about whether they work, if not and what we can do to make that better. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u209	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Well, Mrs. García Míguez, we do not agree that this initiative might have failed, because the Government of Pedro Sánchez is not yet in office, the Courts have not yet been dissolved and will rule until the last day to reverse the harmful policies of the People's Government. [[Applause]] You've spent a long time criticizing the Socialist Government's work. It is true that on the other day too the spokesperson of the People's Group told me in Commission 5a, with affection — yes — but who understood that it was very difficult and difficult to be of the Socialist Party at this time. And I tell you, being of the Socialist Party, in addition to pride at this time, is very easy. How proud we will not be to belong to a party that in eight months of government has done more than the Government of the People's Party in seven years! After eight months of socialist government, Spain is more egalitarian, fairer, more feminine, more democratic. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u210	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u211	...more European, more advanced and more innovative!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u212	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u213	Spain is a better country today. [[Applause]] A government that changed on Fridays from pain to social Fridays. As we will not be proud to regain the universal character for public health, to put in place the measures taken in the State Covenant for Gender Violence, to raise the minimum interprofessional wage to 900 euros, to improve and expand the provision for cessation of self-employed activity, which we return with the long-term — if I may — to say... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u214	Mrs. Prado, please. Please! If not, I have to call her to order like Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Please, you have to know how to fit in, too. You have to know how to fit in, too! This is the parliamentary dynamics, it's the democratic game, they fit in here. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Debate in peace, we're already finishing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But no, that is part of the debate, you take the initiative for the next plenary session. Sure, that's it. [[Murmurs.]] Please! Debate, debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u215	So don't keep lying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u216	Silence! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Losada. You don't start now. Let's go easy now. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, you can do it, but you can do another.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u217	You are now; you did not ask for the same before, of course. Well, then, let's not go along with the lie that the quota of autonomouss is going up without any kind of contraception. And focusing on the People's Party's salary divide initiative. We also have reason to be proud of our former socialist governments, both at the state level and at the autonomous level, because all the laws that led to social progress for women carry the socialist stamp: Organic Law 3/2007 and Law 7/2007, of the equal labour market for women in Galicia; that you arrived, at the Council of Galicia and the Government of Spain, and put them in a drawer. [[Applause]] It is surprising — and much — that they now come here to place duties on the Central Government so that a wage equality law is passed this year 2019 to combat the wage divide between men and women. Last year — I remind you — they voted against an initiative by our group in which we are asking for exactly this law. What's the matter? What's the matter now? Because, as Mr Rajoy said — who was then President of the Government — said: "The rulers must be very careful to know what our powers are. Let's not get involved in that now." That was the response of the President of the Government when he was asked about the pay gap. [[Applause]] Have you spoken now of whether it is now time to get into it, not only with your highest management, Mr. Married, but also with your partner, Mr. Abascal? [[Applause]] Because I don't think you're in much agreement to place women and men on the same level of equality in work. Equality between men and women is not part of Vox's political program. You and your partners will consider women not only second but third. You're worried about abortion or those people who fight against masculine violence. And you can, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, point out and name all members and all members of the Socialist Group because we all fight against gender violence. [[Applause]] You ask the Government of the State to pass this wage equality law. For they can be calm because this next Friday, on a new social Friday, the Socialist Government will pass the law of equal pay between men and women. But it must be very hypocritical because it could already be passed if it wasn't because both the PP and Citizens have dedicated themselves to using the Congress Bureau of Deputies in a biased manner and paralyzing and blocking the processing of this law. This Friday, this equal pay law will be passed and the paternity permit will also be extended to sixteen weeks. The right to reconciliation of personal, family and work life must be regulated in such a way as to ensure the balanced role of family responsibilities, and any direct discrimination of any kind is prohibited. Once these measures have been adopted, which will come into force after their publication in the BOE, we hope that then you, who today come here to call for this equal pay law and also conciliation measures, will not oppose Congress at the time of validating it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u219	We'll be surprised once again by your negative vote; we hope you don't. Mr President, we have tabled an amendment because we do not trust that all the measures included in the State Pact will be put in place. And that's why we specify what they should consist of so that they won't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u221	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. The atmosphere is warm and I'm going to have a little mood too. It's a humor that, of course, is critical as it just expressed, above all, Mrs. Noa Presas. But really, I won't be able to have that humorous point because the subject is very serious, very hard what we're living. The most appointed person from yesterday to today is Mr. Married, and for a reason it is. And if you in no intervention lied or said that you were critical against these opinions, then incongruity is absolute. And it will be because Vox criticises Mr. Married for his warm attitude towards abortion, and from a misogynistic, macho position, contempt for women, of aversion, of hatred, of denigration and of discrimination. And all of this completely contradicted this supposed ambitious initiative. The ambition, yes, they have it, but it's the ambition of the impatience of power that moves away and of power that they consider to be their particular heritage. I think we really need new models. I would dedicate a song to Mr. Casado, who can transmit it from here, a song that speaks of equality, a poem that is significant: "Woman, if you have grown up ideas, / of you they will say very ugly things: / that you are not good, that if such a thing, / that when you shut up you are much more beautiful. / Woman, strong ovary, speaks of you / and claims that life begins when there is equality and when everyone is equal. - And when you don't want to be an incubator... - and Mr. Married is not able to tell any woman when and how she has to have children... "...they will say that the women are no longer useful for now. / Woman, seed, fruit, flower, path, / think is highly feminine. - There are two fountains in your chest, white rockets and no commercial announcements." Well, we did not amend this initiative because we would have to modify virtually all the text. It's really amazing what we hear here today, the burden of lies, of falsehoods. Madam President, in order to make sure you believe it, it is incredible that we are being proposed for programmes. They had ten years to develop programs, with what results? Time banks, it's already said here, it's not your idea. The topic of violence has everything to do with the pay gap. What about the pay gap? Well, we're the fourth community with the biggest pay gap between women and men, and this is a target. And we need, yes, long-term and broad-eyed education policies with an integral focus, but within the curriculum, not as self-configuration matters. And care is fundamental, equal and untransferable permits are basic. It's a problem of fairness and justice. And, of course, since his retirement, women are increasingly being cared for without receiving anything in return. If it had been set in motion for these ten years that ruled, between 2010 and today, the so-called Dependency Law would have generated more than 600,5,000 jobs. There is a need to reorganize the care system to combat inequality. I'm from Ourense. In Ourense, the biggest women are the poorest in the whole state. What are they bragging about? In Ourense of 129,100 people with an active population, there are 141,400 people with an inactive population. The only province in Spain where this happens. And that's more: we're the last women in unemployment benefits, benefits and pensions. The poorest women in Spain are in Galicia, and specifically in Ourense. With regard to male violence, employment is a rescue table, and you also have an obligation to comply with Istanbul's agreements. And Istanbul's agreements, in articles 4 to 6, match inequality and masculine violence. States have an obligation to effectively implement equality policies between women and men. In rural areas — which you have also spoken about — the biggest problem is economic dependence. Women, even landowners, do not have the property in writing. There's no reason to justify wage asymmetry. Being paid differently for doing the same work is not only unfair, it is a symptom of a perverse perpetuity of the cloacas of the patriarchal system. And we have the right to have rights. So, what we claim and support is absolutely a strike that many years have been fighting women around the world, it's an international strike, and all the reasons lead us to that claim and that support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u225	Good morning again, to end my intervention. Madam Presas, you are critical that the non-legislative proposal we bring to this parliament today coincides with the VII Strategic Plan of Equal Opportunities for Men and Women of the Galician Union. Logically, it's the line that must follow the Government of Galicia. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows Mrs. García Míguez some folios.]] These measures will have to be put in place, and we want them to be. And today is an important day to put them in value and, of course, support them. He did not do so at the initiative of Now Madrid Podemos, Manuela Carmena. That's why your candidate in Santiago, Mrs. Goretti Sanmartín presented the care map as her own -- will you know something about this, right? -- to care for dependent people? And we're not going to talk about Mrs. Noela Blanco's print on a proposal from citizens, who brought her here as theirs, and there weren't any eatens either. [[Murmurs.]] With which we are proud of what the Council of Galicia does, and of course, we take it as ours, and we want it to take place. And if there's any measure we don't want it to be done, we want it to be. [[Applause]] With regard to the Tides of Podemos, look, Mrs. Cuña: none of us lessons. Mr. Pablo Casado may make his contributions and may give his ideas or make his comments. But, of course, what we've never heard of any representative of the People's Party is that he wants to hit a woman until blood, "will whip her until blood." We never heard that from a political representative of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] With which we lessons in equality and against all macho violence. You don't present a amendment, you don't come here to say anything at all. So they will continue with their speech of the Pleistocene, of fascism, of mordaza, of repression. And our speech, ladies and gentlemen, in the matter of equality, we have a vision of the future... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u226	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u227	...a vision of strength and equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u228	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u229	...of the objective, of the development of the millennium...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u230	Quiet, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u231	...of the 2030 sustainable target.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u232	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u233	We're there; you're in the Pleistocene and you're with your things. Well, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u234	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u235	...with the Socialist Party, who comes here as an addition to equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u236	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u237	...and if they fill their mouths...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u238	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u239	...as I told you, since the Socialist Party governs, the best example of equality is employment, and 5,000 women a month are unemployed because of the Socialist Party, since they do. Five thousand women a month -- and I say it loud and clear -- for eight months of government. [[Murmurs.]] Shame! Besides, they were talking about all the laws they're pushing. Look: three laws have been announced since June 1, 2018, and today nothing has been done. The proposal for a law of equal pay and transparency between men and women is supported by the People's Party, and that's what will be done, is the only one that will be approved. Maybe we're surprised by one of those decrees we're used to. Too bad they hadn't done it before, and they have to do everything now late, bad, drag and run.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u240	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u241	On the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u242	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u243	On the amendments, the amendment of the Socialist Party is accepted, and we reject those of the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u244	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Blanco, why do you want the word? [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mrs. Blanco's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u245	I want the floor for allusions, because I was not in this debate and the honourable Member of the People's Party mentioned me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u246	Yes, one minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u247	Okay. The proposal referred to by the People's Party Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u248	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u249	...it was a PSdeG initiative where we wanted the Galician Union to put in place measures against the masculine violence it exercises, which has been exerting itself for many years against the older people, against the older women in our country, an initiative that the People's Party... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u250	Quiet, that's it, that's it. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u251	...he voted against, and that, indeed, as I myself said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u252	Thank you. It's already clear. Thank you. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u253	...in this debate in the face of the accusations of the People's Party Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u254	Thank you. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u255	...it was a proposal from my companions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u256	Quiet, that's it, it's clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u257	...of the Murcia Assembly. Because, Madam...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u258	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u259	...you have to copy, copy well; don't copy who says who beats women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u260	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u261	...what you're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u262	Mrs. Blanco, you're already clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u263	...it's not being well, like the president of your party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u264	Clear the matter, Mrs. Blanco. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u265	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u266	Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What were you alluded to? I don't know. What were you alluded to? No, no, but I didn't hear... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, a moment, maybe I'm wrong, that I'm corrected by the members of the Bureau, because maybe I'm wrong. I didn't hear you mention it. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. Besides, I was in the debate. Well, that's it. No, out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you for reminding me. That's it. No, no, it's in the debate, it's not possible. Thank you. No, it's in the debate. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please, that's it. Mrs. Presas... no, no, no, no... It's in the debate, it doesn't work. Don't proceed, Mrs. Presas, you don't have the floor. It doesn't work, it doesn't work! Madam Presas, do I have to call her in order? Madam Presas, do you call it in order? It doesn't work, it doesn't work. It didn't work out. No, no, but I say that you are in the debate, I have not observed any injustice or inaccuracy; therefore, no. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm not giving any more words. That's it, please. [[Murmurs.]] The debate is over. Let's vote. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And at least you weren't in the debate, you weren't even present. [[Murmurs.]] Well, that's it. Let's vote. Please, we're going to vote, which is the important thing. Let's start the votes. Please close the doors. We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs. Flora Miranda. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the German Nationalist Block and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group are accepted. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, give a voice to Mrs. Friend's chair. [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you would like to ask for a point of order. Do you accept the point vote? No, no, no, no. But he doesn't accept, he doesn't. [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] He said he didn't accept it. He said he didn't accept, what do you want me to tell him? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, but she's already... but she's already said that she wouldn't accept a point vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but what do you want me to tell you, if you don't accept the point vote? [[Murmurs.]] We vote, we vote. We voted on the proposal as it is. How much more could I vote for points, but this is not the President's question! Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece for women's health care with a gender perspective. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u267	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. Amendments are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the performances that must be carried out at Junta de Galicia in relation to the fees of the autonomic highways AG-57, Puxeiros-Val Minor, and AG-55, The Coruña-Carballo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u268	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán. There was a transaction pending with In Marea. Is he there? Read it. Read it, please. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u269	It's pretty easy. Thank you, President. The text stays as it is. Point 4 to 4 of En Marea is added and point 1 is added point 5 of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u270	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to reduce the time of issuance of the reports of the evaluation units of the Imelga, as well as on the staffing of the teams of Pontevedra and the Coruña with more professional and the creation of an exclusive team of integral evaluation units of the Imelga in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u271	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Presas. There was an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group that was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia and the demand to be made to the central government in respect of proposals for legalization and standardization of the practice of renting and subsidized management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u272	We are now voting on the People's Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs Nóvoa. The amendments tabled are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and fifteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the decision of the company Naturgy to close the thermal power plant in Meirama and to build on its land a wind farm and a biogas plant. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u273	We are now voting for another of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Presas Berganginos. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the Greek feminism and the women's strike calls of March 2019, as well as the demands to be made to the Galician Union in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u274	We now vote for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro. The amendment was not accepted, but a point vote seemed to have been requested. So, as I already know of the points that are, we vote first on points 2 and 3, paragraph 2. We vote. Voting of point 2 and point 3(2) of the G.P. Non-Law Proposal. In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to improve the conditions of workers in the home and to request the Government of Spain to include them in the general social security regime and in the Staff Regulations, as well as the International Labour Organization Convention 189 is signed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. These two points were therefore adopted by sixty-nine votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u275	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of this non-law proposal. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. In Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, with the exception of point 2 and point 3(2), already voted on, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Council to improve the conditions of workers in the home and to request the Government of Spain to include them in the general regime of social security and the Staff Regulations, as well as to sign Convention 189 of the International Labour Organization. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points are rejected in this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u276	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles García Míguez. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted and the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and seven other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia and to request the Government of the State to promote the inclusion of women in equal conditions and the reconciliation of personal, family and work life. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u277	They've finished voting on non-law proposals. Open the doors, please. We continue with the interpelerations, which is the fifth point on the agenda. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union for equal work and wage between women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u278	To formulate this interpellation, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u279	Thank you, President. Good morning again and welcome, Counselor. I want to begin our appeal to the councillor by heeding what the president of the board said this morning in this plenary: that in this House we cannot lie or fail the truth. And I, with respect to this House, will give you the data of the government's commitment to women these ten years, objective data drawn from budgets of Galician Union itself. [[Applause]] The Feijóo Nunez Board cut 4 out of every 5 euros for the departure of equality, protection and promotion of women. Today is a quarter of what it was ten years ago. Ten years ago, as President of the Board Mr. Touriño, there were 33.55 million euros; today, with Feijóo, 7.36 million euros. This is Mr. Feijó's commitment to women. But to bet on real equality, you have to provide funds. And more data. There were over 10 million to support the reconciliation of work and personal life. Today the budget is far from 2 million euros, there is 1.62 million euros in this game. So, since you can't fail to the truth, I think it was welcome to say what the real data is. Well, inequality between women and men has its reflection, as in many other areas, in the world of work and in the interpersonal relations that they articulate themselves, forming a different exit position as regards opportunities for access to quality employment, especially in those best paid sectors, as well as in the development of their professional career. At the state level, an extensive regulatory adaptation has been developed with the aim of moving the existing Community acquis between men and women, a matter which has already been collected in our Constitution in Articles 14 and 9.2. In 2007 the Organic Law for effective equality between men and women was adopted, a law passed under the mandate of Mr Zapatero and which, by the way, the People's Party did not support, a law which the experts considered very necessary, which provided many new elements, starting from a good diagnosis and introducing obligations to the powers of the State and even the private sector. In the opinion of the experts — and it is not the opinion of the Socialist Party — the changes that have taken place in recent years, both in social or business culture and in the advancement of women in employment, political and institutional space, have a lot to do with this law, but, as we said earlier, the Government of Mariano Rajoy has arrived and put it in a drawer. In the autonomous issue, Law 7/2004 was approved and, as a further step in the effective achievement of these objectives, the Italian Parliament approved Law 2/2007 on equal work for women in Galicia. On April 13, 2007, this law was published in the DOG, which was agreed with trade union and business organizations, municipalities, women's associations and civil society in general. A law aimed at improving women's quality of life and broadening the limits of democracy. An initiative that was based on the fact that half of the population, women, every day, are more culturally trained, more professionally qualified and more determined to participate equally in the productive sectors and that, on the other hand, they suffer prejudices related to their responsibilities in and out of work. A law that makes proposals to introduce equality cross-borderly in the field of work, which is committed to the full incorporation of women into a key of equality in the world of work and business, which considers women and men indispensable for economic growth and for the increase of productive tissue. Because in us, in women, most of the cases are the family obligations, which give way to what is called "interminable lunch." Assemble, the negative and false view that maternity is a low productivity and absenteeism at work. From there the ceiling of glass, which prevents workers in practice from gaining access to positions of responsibility and decision and hence to higher pay and professional status. From the Socialist Group we understand that wage equality is crucial in equality policies, since it covers everything in this policy: segregation of spaces, allocation of time, value assigned to work and gender identity. And also because the overrun of the wage gap between men and women is directly conditional on the economic policies that produce employment, education and social jobs in which they are registered. Wage inequality means that women in our autonomous community are victims of an intolerable pay gap. With data from 2016, the latest available annual salary structure survey published by the INE on 29 March 2018 — not invented by this Socialist Group — the average annual wage of the Welsh workers is 23.05 % lower than that of men. In Galicia the annual profit of men is €23,774.21, while women's is €18,294.27. There is therefore a pay gap of EUR 5,479.74 in wages between men and women, increasing this wage gap over 2015. From the Socialist Group we believe that this worrying situation requires intensified efforts to put in place positive and concrete measures and actions that eliminate these differences in working conditions and particularly in remuneration. By the above, Counselor, I think it's the moment that it's about to get in, as well as I spoke earlier in my intervention, now in that, when we ask you about the payroll. We socialists do think that attacking and shortening inequality between men and women in the workplace is a matter for the Government, and that's why, in order to avoid that paralysis that PP has so accustomed to, is why we are going to approve the Law on Pay Equality between men and women in Madrid next Friday. But that's why we ask: do we think that it is necessary for the Council of Galicia to put in place a law of equal pay between men and women? [[Applause]] It seems now that the People's Group, which supports the Government, says yes. How does Junta de Galicia expect to reduce the existing wage gap in Galicia? Mr. Feijó's government has put these equal labour laws in a drawer, as we have said. We believe it is essential that the equality plans for companies and institutions provided for in this Organic Law 3/2007 be generalised and approved, establishing the reduction of the wage divide as the first objective of these plans. We also consider it essential to act against horizontal segregation in companies by revising the applicable occupational groups and wage supplements to avoid discrimination against sex. And we must also act against vertical segregation, establishing a system of compulsory quotas on the board of directors of large companies, through long-term plans, in order to achieve a balanced representation of women and men. And, in this sense, there is another of our questions to you, Counsellor: what measures of economic and technical support for the voluntary implementation of equality plans or other measures of promotion of equality do you plan to apply the Government of Greece during this legislation, as well as what assessment does the Government of Greece of the implementation of Law 2/2007 and whether it is considered to be complying with this Law of equal work for women? We are also concerned — and much — about the absence of involvement and awareness regarding the application of preventive measures in the workplaces as regards those workers who are in situations of pregnancy or breastfeeding. And, above all, we're concerned that no action is taken by a government that claims to be the greatest defender of the family, a government that is dedicated to saying when we have to be mothers and what it means to be mothers. [[Applause]] That's why we're wondering whether the Government of Greece believes that the legislation on occupational risk prevention is being enforced in cases where workers are pregnant or breast-feeding, as well as what measures the Government of Greece is planning to put in place during this legislation to ensure the rights of workers in this situation. And also, to finish up, we'd like to know the view of the German Government on a subject that was dealt with today in the morning in this House, as was the conditions that the home workers suffer. And we want to know if you're planning to put in place the German Government some measures to improve the working conditions of these home workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Before the advisor answers, we want to greet the students of the senior cycles of Administration and Finance and Assistance to the Directorate of the Rodolfo Ucha Piñeiro Center, Ferrol, and the teachers who come with them. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the word, to answer, the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Otero, it's true that there's a lot to be done about equality, but Mrs. Otero, it's also true that we've made a lot of progress towards achieving a Galicia in equality. A path that goes beyond the right of social justice, a path that is necessary to build wealth and well-being, because the Greeks and the Greeks are walking together as an engine of development; a path that has to be out of partyviews, as you have moved in your intervention; and a path that must be built in a positive way, and in fact I am sure that we move to all of those who are present here. Of course, trying to argue otherwise, which is what you wanted to move in your intervention, repeating, by the way, a recurring speech from the Socialist Party, is a disregard for all the work that has been done all these years by all the governments of the Council of Galicia. And if it hadn't, by moving the current situation to him, surely the People's Party wouldn't be ruling in Galicia, but the People's Party in Galicia is ruling at most of this time. So I propose to park your excuses for confrontation and propose to dialogue and work seriously on concrete solutions. I know that at this moment, today, you, the Socialist Group, find it very difficult, because you are focused on justifying how after nine months of inaction by the Government of Pedro Sánchez now have to justify a decision in which you, Mrs. Otero, will use the Council of Ministers as if it were the headquarters of Ferraz, and that is simply an exercise, Mrs. Otero, of bad politics. As far as equality is concerned, a government needs to be asked to make good policy, and of course I understand that you have a real difficulty coming here this morning and having a serious dialogue with the Government on equality; a government which, of course, is talking about the decisions it is taking, has just penalized Galicia by changing the rules of play in the distribution of funds from active employment policies, which also affect women. And, therefore, you should worry about how the Government of Pedro Sánchez penalizes Galicia and will assume that this year 2019 Galicia will receive less funds than it would have met the criteria for distribution that were already established. If you're really concerned about budget actions, you should be concerned and you should be positioned, defending Galician Union so that the Government of Madrid doesn't penalize Galicia as you are doing. But let's focus on female employment. As you know — and to the data I refer myself, to the data of the National Institute of Statistics and to the data of the Government itself — today we have 479,000 women affiliated with Social Security, almost half of the total, 48%. In Galicia there are more women with an indefinite contract, more than 18,100 women. And today in Galicia, the labour market has better results for women than the whole of Spain. That is the reality, Mrs Otero, of the labour market in Galicia in relation to women: lower unemployment than in Spain, higher rates of activity and employment than in Spain and lower rates of temporality and partiality than in Spain. That's a reality, but it's true that there are things left to improve, and it's true, as you pointed out, that, according to the National Institute of Statistics, women in Spain are still charging 22% less than men, the situation in which we have to work together to be able to pay attention to it. But it is also important to remember, by giving all the data, that Galicia, Mrs Otero, is the second community with the largest increase in female wages in the period 2008-2016, with an increase of 9.9%. It is true that there are still obstacles to women's access to leadership, another issue that we have to work on, which today we have 12,300 women in managerial and managerial positions, which account for 30.6% of the people occupied in this position, and that the challenge is that we can increase that 30% that women represent today. And there is still a way -- it's true -- about the reconciliation of work and family, where greater co-responsibility between mothers and parents is essential, and where companies have to assume greater responsibility also to provide greater coverage for maternity and paternity. Therefore, we have a journey, with a reality in which Galicia today presents a better situation than we were ten years ago, Galicia presents a better situation from the point of view of the labour market than the rest of Spain, but a path that we have to continue to travel, because there are areas of improvement both in the wage gap and in the presence of women in the management field or in the employment and family reconciliation itself. One issue, that of conciliation, where the Galician Union is taking steps and is setting examples, which I think is good to remember and that it is good to put into value. We are the first community to increase maternity leave, up to twenty-four weeks. Galicia is the first autonomous community that has a plan of reconciliation and co-responsibility, and Galicia today has more public school squares than ever before. So we continue to work with municipalities, with single-parent families, with self-employed workers, ultimately improving reconciliation. Also, as regards the protection of maternity, you know -- you have not said it, but you should also remember it -- that the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health in Galicia develops a programme for the protection of pregnant workers or in recent delivery situations and lactation with visits to companies, with advisory campaigns and also by transferring technical information. You tell me about the household workers. Say all the information, because you know that the Labour Risk Prevention Act excludes special work relationships from the family home service. You should know that the law regulates the inviolability of the family home -- you should know -- and you should also know that, even with this restriction, as the law collects, the Labour Inspectorate acts. And the Labour Inspectorate, both through the course of complaint or the instance of courts and tribunals, raises proceedings of infringements when there are situations contrary to the labour standard. And you miss the truth — and I deeply regret it — when it implies that the Law of equal work is not complied with. That's not true. There are thirty-five thousand women who received assistance from the Women's Employment Plan, sixty thousand women who have received services throughout this legislation to support women's integration into the labour market, for their professional development and for equality in businesses. He has developed this government new measures linked to integrated employment programmes, with the recruitment of Women's Employment, which includes a bonus for his information. And we are strengthening support for the implementation of measures in the field of equality, conciliation and social responsibility; all measures under the Law on Equality, adopted by the Council of Galicia. And you know that in 2019 — because we presented it to the committee when this board presented the budgets — we are going to develop new measures. The Galego Labour Relations Council has just published a study of the situation of equality in collective bargaining to develop good practice guides. We're developing a new edition of the Executives program, in a guide we have to develop plans on equality. And we are also working with the social partners on the issue of social dialogue to develop a new programme of equal pay, which is collected in the budgets of this year 2019. I'm done. Finished, Your Honor, with a message that I believe was with which I initiated my intervention. This government is working for a Galician on equal terms, and a Galician on equal terms means everyone's involvement, not just a part of Galicia. Women know that the Government is working for that Galicia on equal terms, society is working for Galicia on equal terms. I propose that the Socialist Party and the rest of the opposition groups also work for Galicia on an equal footing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u282	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u283	Thank you, President. I fully agree with you, Counselor, that there is much way to go. But we understand that a path that had been traveled faster, if they had taken into account and applied the legislative documents that existed at the time you arrived at the Government of the Union — the legal rules existed — we would have gone a long way, but you, for lack of political will, did not apply them. [[Applause]] The data is there. I mean, how are those policies going to be put on the table to achieve equality between men and women if they don't budget themselves? As much as propaganda is made and measures are announced, if they are not budgeted, that is impossible to carry out. Today four out of every five euros for the match of equality were cut by the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, and that's in the board budget. [[Applause]] Without money, no matter how good they are, they can't be put into practice. They criticise that the Government of Pedro Sánchez uses these ministers' councils to take out decrees on those "social Fridays", which, as I said before, change the "suffering Fridays" by the "social Fridays". But, well, on the subject of the real decrees, you also know quite well about the subject, because in a government of Mariano Rajoy, with an absolute majority, you would have no problem with being able to pass your legislative projects at the Congress of Deputies, for they have passed nothing but twenty-nine royal decrees, that they would all cut the rights of the workers and the passive classes of this country. [[Applause]] Then at least a little serious. They also criticise those state budgets that you voted against, those 2019 budgets. I want to remind you that today we are talking about equality policies, equality between men and women, we are not talking about infrastructure. And you voted against a draft general government budget law in which more than 55% of the budget was aimed at social policies, and, within these policies, improvements were included to achieve that wage equality. And you voted against it. You focus all the speeches on the state's general budgets on infrastructure, which we also consider important — that is, the Socialist Group also considers roads important, for example — but we place people above them. Because the roads can best wait but people to eat and make their lives can't wait any longer. [[Applause]] I think maybe I didn't express myself properly. I wasn't telling you that you weren't complying with the Labour Risk Prevention Act in the housewives. I know they're excluded, that special regime is excluded from the Labour Risk Prevention Act. I was talking to you about workers in different companies where you don't guarantee that right you have to your motherhood and breastfeeding. You're not complying with the Labour Risk Prevention Act, and that's why many women are downgrading their rights in that area. He didn't answer many of the questions, or any of the questions we have here today. Are you in favour of that opinion of the Government or not? That of the People's Parliamentary Group seems to have changed, but in the Government are they in favour or not of this Pay Equality Act? He hasn't told us that they're going to put measures on the table to improve the working conditions of the home regime. And he didn't tell us if during this legislation they were going to implement and put into effect all those measures that were collected in the Women's Employment Equality Act in Galicia. If you had political will — but, apart from the will, you had to put money — it would in many ways improve the appearance of women in this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Close the gap, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Otero, you should ask for information in your parliamentary group on budgets and know that budgets have already passed those of the Bipartite, and that, therefore, the organizational structure of the current Galician Union has nothing to do with the Bipartite. And, therefore, when you want to make budgetary comparisons, you should know that equality matches are not in one department in this government. The Economic, Employment and Industry Council allocated EUR 80 million for active employment policies to women in 2018; EUR 140 million in the Social Policy Council; hence EUR 220 million. You'll tell me what kind of budgets and what budget splits come to transfer here, because, unfortunately, what you're doing in Galicia is assigning more resources to that Galicia on equal terms. [[Applause]] What you should worry about is why your party in Madrid sets a change of criteria, without consensualizing with the autonomous communities, in which Galicia is prejudiced. Therefore, this year 2019 Galicia will receive fewer resources in active employment policies for a change of opinion that its Government in Madrid is setting against the application of criteria oriented to the efficient execution of European funds. Just because we executed European funds well, Galicia received more money, and so women in Galicia could benefit from these active employment policies. So, Your Honor, don't tell me about budget games, because if any government is betting on allocating budgets to equality, that's precisely this one. You move me if this government is actively developing politics. I will transfer them, I will transfer them as we are defining professional improvements and categories, as we are setting positive action measures to hire the least represented sex people, as we are also providing greater transparency in the pay structure and the review of salary supplements and how we are rationalizing and flexible schedules so as not to hinder reconciliation. We are therefore acting with concrete measures derived from the Equality Law. And we are also working on equal treatment and opportunities, in concrete terms, on equal pay. I'll transfer it. This year the Galician Union will develop a new programme to promote equal pay which will promote the reduction of the wage divide. And we're working with economic and social agents and we're going to work on an active policy to reduce that pay gap. As for the Pay Equality Act, you know that the Galician Union has urged the Central Government to adopt it. And he knows we'll do it again on the basis of the non-legislative proposal set out by the People's Group in this plenary. And the only thing we ask them to do about the Pay Equality Act is to do things with consensus. I know it's very difficult, I know it's very difficult to justify the bad politics of the Socialist Party in Madrid; a bad policy that will lead it to make the Council of Ministers look better at the headquarters of Ferraz. And that's not receipt in a state in which we're working to respect and act with loyalty. Unfortunately, you've had the majority for nine months... Mrs. Otero, you've had the majority and you haven't been able to apply it. And now that they convene elections they want to approve at the Council of Ministers simply by using in an improper, improper way, the Council of Ministers. It is simply an exercise of bad politics, impropriety of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which is beginning to be an already unknown party. [[Applause]] Finally, today, Your Honor, there are more women affiliated with Social Security than ever before. Six of every ten women in Galicia have an indefinite and full-time contract. And, like the rest of the labour market indicators, we continue to improve our position with regard to Spain. Insufficient? Yes, but, Your Honor, also much better than the situation we were in. In short, Your Honor, I only ask the Socialist Party to join the fight for Galicia on equality, but above all to recover good politics, to recover the policy of consensus and to recover that policy which has to lead us all to build a Galicia on equality for all and, Your Honor, with all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u286	Thank you, Counselor. As announced yesterday, we are now asking the Government a question. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the visit to Vigo by the Minister of Health on January 28, 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u287	Give a voice to Mrs. Egerique's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u288	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, thank you for being today answering this question. We consider a genuine disproposition, an act of incoherence and political advantage, that the Government of Spain is now virtue of something which has criticized so much, which has been criticized so much in this chamber, that it was the European Reference Laboratory of Marine Biotoxins. Why would we say that? Well, on the opposing sides, throughout this legislation, in the last year, we heard from the PSOE some pearls of the style that we had made a warm defence and that this should be firm and determined and that it had to go beyond a report; now we see that your own ministry gives for good management. They said that there was never a candidacy, that it was not true that he had worked — I am taking, in addition, textual words of interventions — and what they never said was that there were deadlines to submit the candidacy and that it could not be presented before. They said we were trying to take them for fools and talk about a ridiculous act, and we were trying to tell some truth; I don't know if the words of Minister Prisoner now also have these qualifications or deserve these qualifications. They said that either we were incompetent or we were liars and that you had to resign, Counselor; we suppose they won't ask for Mrs. Carcedo's resignation now. Well, they also said who was lying? If the press was lying, if Brussels was lying, if it was lying to Xunta. It is clear, in addition, that now you also have to ask whether Minister Prisoner is lying as well. Well, what we believe is that I lied to those who played half-truths, and those who put -- let me say it -- it's embarrassing to talk about it. Since the Galician Nationalist Block they also said other pearls that should be remembered today. They said this was a farce lab and a caliber, and that we didn't have a serious government and that we lost because of incompetence; now it's a proven reality, we know that the lab is there. They said it was the crumbs; now it turns out we've made it clear that it was the most important part of the CEFAS, that it had to get rid of the Brexit theme. In Marea he said it was a new deception, that it was a carpet of Mortadelo and Philemon — I believe that said so to Mrs. En Marea—, surrealist and ridiculous; we do not know what they will now say of their government partners in Madrid. They said this decision was detrimental to shellfishers and the research community; we don't know if they have to apologize to the sector at least. And they said this question was because we didn't know who was in charge of the "great PP" -- I open quotes, because they were talking about the "great PP" -- whether the Congressmen or the President of the Board; we don't know who was in charge of the Marea, so we don't know who we are in this chamber. Well, counselor, you have clarified these positions — I think it is appropriate to remember what the opposition said about this — I would like to ask you what valuation makes the German Government of the visit you had recently had to Minister Carcedo to Vigo to assume, precisely, the existence of this laboratory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, the truth is we can hardly value this visit unless we know it by the media. And I think it is important to emphasize that the current government now joins in achieving important competences for institutions based in Galicia. It is the minister himself who stresses the importance of the laboratory in assuming these competences, because — and I quote according to the media — the minister has stated that these competences "come to strengthen the dimension of the centre and the research carried out jointly with the University of Vigo". We have, then, something important, a step forward of great silence. In any case, what the Minister of Health announced in Vigo during his visit to the lab we've known for more than a year. We already knew that Galicia had obtained the designation of the most important part of the European reference laboratory for the follow-up of viral and bacteriological contaminants of bivalve molluscs. In fact, we have seen it pointing out from the moment that this designation was known on behalf of Brexit, despite the fact that since Galicia we have always defended that we wanted the entire area of the Community reference laboratory. But we also believe that, in addition to forgetting to officially invite us, in this collaboration that is pointed out, in addition to the University, there should be another part that has a broad path of support and collaboration with the Community reference laboratory, which is the Intemar. That's why we transferred a letter to the minister himself in which we asked the Central Government to continue the processing of the protocol between the State and the Union to collaborate in the control of the areas of production of bivalve molluscs. It should be recalled that this protocol came from a meeting that I myself held last January in Brussels with the previous Director General of DG SANTE, Mr Xavier Prats, who pointed out the possibility of this collaboration between the laboratory and the Intemar. In any case, I think we have, from Galicia, to thank the Central Government for their commitment to the recognition of the good news for Spain and Galicia for the assumption by the marked laboratory of this new task. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u291	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u292	Thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for telling me again how the facts really were, the truth of the facts that you've had to explain here on another occasion. And today we see, that it is also ratified by the facts, as you well said. The other thing we don't understand is that in the visit to Minister Carcedo, he hadn't invited any representatives of the Government of Galicia, who hadn't called the Council of Galicia nor had he told anyone from Galicia, let alone when this autonomous community is competent in the area of control of production areas, and perhaps when other administrations without competences were invited on that subject, as it could be the Deputy of Pontevedra or the Free Zone of Vigo. And there was the mayor, the Franc Zone and the Deputy during the visit, but of the Unity of Galicia, no one. And there's something in common about these administrations, and they're all from the Socialist Party, Counselor. That's why I think they were invited, and not because they had something to do with Galicia's interests on this subject, neither in the defense of the laboratory, nor in the defense, as I say, of the fishing sector, which the whole councillor of the sea referred to. [[Murmurs.]] We don't understand if you were to criticize what you're applauding now. That is the permanent incoherence of the Socialist Party, which we have always said here. We do not understand that if you applaud, except that there may be exceptions: it may be to cover up the proposal made by a socialist commissioner to dismantle the laboratory altogether; it may also be that they do so because they want to cover up those accusations that were unfounded, because the management itself has fruit and today we are seeing it as well, and it may be already — that it may be, too, and now it is very close — for covering up the Government of Catalonia, which now so much defends the Socialist Party, who was more concerned with remaining in the competitions but who are, finally, in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] They're in Galicia, it's clear, the minister himself comes to claim to defend something he's worked so hard on since Galicia. And, therefore, Counsellor, we thank you for your work and will continue to support this People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u294	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u295	Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u296	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, to me the truth is, on this subject, it seems interesting to me to recall a few words that I pointed out in this same Chamber in 2017: "Experience makes me believe in a very basic and old principle that says that one should not be judged before having all the information. I say this because it is not the first time in this parliament, that it is done this way, and that some of those who accuse and attack have to make their words very soon." And he said more, "In this case, you can believe that this advisor has always had two conditions in this whole process: we work in good faith, and we have done everything from the will to strengthen efficiency in the wake of the controls of the bivalve molluscs." [[Applause]] In view of the visa, I believe these words are ratified, and I believe that we are in a new case of substantial modification to those words that were dedicated to my department and myself; as you will recall, I was also asked to resign. I'm telling you who's being corrected in the interpretations for their larger plane, I'm saying who's putting on soles who was in charge of the party at the time of working in Madrid, and I'm saying who was saying that Galicia had gone missing. I only ask that that time, indeed, be left behind, that they join this stage in a work for the sake of industry and research, and that they do less politics and more Galicia. Because the current Government of Madrid now gives that question, and now we want you to follow that line, we want you to join our proposal, we want you to just ratify the cooperation agreement with Intemar, and we also want you to continue to appreciate whether the European Union really has been wrong when you decided to divide the tasks that the CEFAS was doing. That is why we are committed to continuing to control that really the functions that the Community reference laboratory has to do do them and meet all the needs of our sector. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u297	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u298	Let's resume the session. Mr Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. de In Marea, on the processing of information on equality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u299	Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u300	Thank you, President. Today, we have come to ask you about the repeated non-compliance that is currently taking place in the media with regard to equality legislation. We have often reflected in this House on the fundamental role played by the media in building opinions, in training and even in shaping reality itself. And just as we know that their role is so important, well to help break up roles and gender stereotypes, to help end them, or to perpetuate them, we believe it's important that we think, that we think about this issue, and that we take more action, because those that are being taken so far are proving totally insufficient. There are many examples. It's not uncommon to find in many media as they normalize certain contents that perpetuate and strengthen inequalities, that perpetuate these roles and these Machist attitudes. And, as I say, the measures that are being taken so far are totally insufficient and are not proving to be effective. It's not uncommon that cases of male violence are part of the pages of events, it's not uncommon to publish totally inappropriate photographs, details of the personal life of women victims. And we understand that there are many of these issues that have to end. By putting some examples of these practices that we understand to show good evidence that current legislation is not being complied with, there are many headlines that talk about women who die or lose their lives. And this can't agree because women don't die anymore, women are murdered. And we understand it's very important to end this type of headline. It's just as important to end up with all the headlines that talk about "passional crime," that talk about romantic myths, when they're killing us. For giving them two examples that are very visual, we have the one about the psychopath who killed for love. This was published, and it's a new version of the known "killed her because she wanted her." I think we all have in mind that new one we read — that is rectified, less evil, but that came out and that we all could see — that spoke of an abrasive couple, who died hugged, when actually what happened was that burned her alive. These are some of the examples we understand that they show that you're not doing enough. Many times women victims — for example, raped — are then persecuted by the media, with attitudes that also have to end — another example — by omitting women's places and names, because I think that's exactly what we don't have to do. The normal life of the raped girl: university, travel and friends... she wasn't a saint... These are comments that obviously focus on the victim, on the woman, blaming her for the situation of violence she had to live. At other times—not few—excused what the batterer is: "People remembered him as an extraordinary being, he was kind, he greeted the neighbors, he didn't respond to the profile of a batterer..." Or rather praising certain personal problems, such as alcoholism or some mental illness. These are all these attitudes, which are repeated — they are just examples, they can find many more in the media — which, as I said, realizes that it is obvious that the current legislation is not being complied with. There are two other areas where the attitude of the media, such as sport and politics, is especially bloody. Speaking of politics, it is not uncommon to find a graphic description of the clothes of certain ministers, of the physical aspect of certain Members. You never make that description of men's clothing or physical appearance. And speaking of sport, I'm just going to give you an example that seems very visual to me: "Carolina Marín, the girl who admires Christmas, first in the Asian who wins gold." A woman who wins a gold and who, however, only puts her description on a title is that she admires a man. They always appear as subordinates in the role of an escort. And these cases, the ones I used to name, are surely the ones that call us the most attention, the most visual and the ones that are most easily perceived. But there are many other issues that are more subtle and that are normalized, that happen every day, that help shape identities and perpetuate these roles, such as the over-representation of the male, that you see; the obvious difference when you talk about topics or other things -- women usually talk about themes and men talk about other issues -- the cosification that exists by the media and the advertising of women's bodies, which does not happen to men. These, as I say, often go unnoticed. And by putting a comment, I think it's very important that the feminist perspective completely crosses journalism. Of course, you have to go through the one who creates the contents, the one who generates these contents, but I also think it's important to act on who writes opinion papers, because there are some articles of opinion that generate violence. It's not acceptable, for example, when they're killing us year after year, to read certain articles that question this violence. We understand that there is a limit, and those issues are not respectable. As I said, the fundamental problem isn't that we don't have legislation. We have a pretty advanced legislation. It's true that there is a lack of development, and the problem of this lack of development is that every day we see how it's not being evaluated. Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the Greek Equality Act of 2007 raise very specific issues that, if they were met, we would not have to be debating this debate. Because they literally speak of the fact that the Union will ensure that the media of public ownership, particularly the Galician Radio and Television Company, and those in which it participates or finances—and there are many other media, because the Galician Union has many subsidies to many public media—, do not broadcast in its programming images or contents that are contrary to the purpose and spirit of this law. And it will also ensure that in the media, adequate treatment of the news on gender violence is offered and that information on violence against women is promoted by the right to privacy of the victims and their children and their children. As we see, if these articles were fulfilled, many of the headlines I read before should not be admitted by the Galician Union. However, we see as twelve years after the introduction of this law continues to go through this every month, every week. But besides, it's not that there's only this legislation. There's a deontological code, there's a statement that was very important, Compostela's 2004 Declaration, there's also a newspaper editor's own guide to Galician board. But the problem with all these issues is the same: it is not currently being complied with with by any legislation of this kind. That's why the question we want to ask you is very clear: what do valuations make from the Galician Summit of the current situation in relation to the fulfilment of the equality legislation, the deontological code and also the Compostela Declaration? and, above all, if you've planned to do something, if you've thought to take some action so that this situation doesn't continue longer. There's a very clear question: Together has a very important pressure mechanism if you want to use it. Do they at any time plan to condition public subsidies to the media that do not comply with legislation in a strict manner? We think it's a measure that the Galician Union has and it should be applying. It can't be that she's subsidizing media that doesn't comply with equality legislation and that nothing happens in this country. On other issues this question wouldn't happen, as I said in the morning as well. There are no other laws that are done as repeatedly as the Greek legislation: twelve years and non-compliances are systematic in all matters. And, above all, I want to tell you that we are not demanding just us, this parliamentary group, to do something else. The journalists themselves, the journalists, stopped on March 8. Journalists are organizing and the school itself is making it clear that a change is needed, that it is necessary to incorporate the feminist perspective, once and for all, into the media. There are lots of professionals and many professionals who are fully aware of the feminist struggle. We thank all those people who are visible and struggling every day, but obviously something is failing, and reality is evidence. That's why the questions are clear. I leave my intervention for now, and I hope that in his intervention they will make self-criticism of this balance these twelve years, for obviously reality is very worrisome.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Quinteiro, you finished your speech by saying that you were expecting us to do self-criticism about the current state of treatment that the media are making about masculine violence, first of all, but also about everything that has to do with equality policies. Of course! If you think I'm going to tell you that everything is very good and that, therefore, if you're fulfilling all the laws... If we also understand that everything is a matter of complying with legislation and that it's not a question of mentalization and that things are gradually getting better... I think it's pretty much that. If you think it's all settled with a law, it'd probably be all solved by now. Because rules, indeed, exist. Another thing is its mandatory force, if they are laws, and its scope. I think some things have been getting pretty better. We agreed on one thing in the approach he makes in the interpellation. Indeed, we are aware at the Council of Galicia, and I believe that it is conscious of the whole society, of the important — I would say, very important, of the role that the media have played in transmitting news, indeed, when it comes to conveying that vision of the news, the ideas they make, as they even conceive the news they have to tell, and therefore the important thing that they are to eradicate stereotypes, which it is true that they have been supporting inequalities between men and women for a long time. That's right. Therefore, this influence must be used to remove consciences, and it must also be done obviously by the media in the face of ideas and conduct that are produced — and then logically it must be told — that they are disturbing, unjust, discriminatory, and therefore, depending on how they are transmitted, indeed, one can collaborate to advance in their eradication. Therefore, this influence is undeniable; I will not deny it, nor much less. And it's also undeniable, therefore, the responsibility of the media and also the administrations -- so I'm responding today -- to change this little by little and to always make a reflection, which has to be permanent, about how all these messages are moved, about how they get to know the facts, ultimately. Another thing is valuation. It's different. You used to set a lot of examples. I'd put a note to Carolina Marín. I read that news too, and what am I going to tell you? With Carolina Marin admiring Christmas, you think that's what she's saying she admires him because he's a man, who, therefore, has to admire him because he's a man, he has nothing else. That's what you said, or that's what many people understood, but not just that. Perhaps he admires it because he has won many tournaments, for his spirit of overcoming, even because he's Spanish like her, for a lot of things. You say no, that if you're saying you admire it and if you transmit it, it's just a macho stereotype. It's very difficult to agree on that, it's subjective appreciation. And it also influences how I conceive it or how you conceive it the transmission that media make. And I say again that self-criticism, of course, yes, in the part that touches us at the Galician Union. It is true that there is a law — you have signaled it — Law 11/2007, which states that the Union has an obligation to ensure that in the media — in Galicia, of course — "an appropriate treatment of the news on gender violence" — law in writing — "and also to promote that information on violence against women is seen by the right to privacy of victims and their children." That's what the law says and therefore sets out a number of obligations for the Galician Union to do things. Of course! so that it may be assured that in no case will they fail, then, look! for that at the end are the courts. We have proactive measures and then it is also — which I think is the time to introduce this into the debate — the responsibility of the people who work in the media, who also have it and who, of course, must also be demanded. Because you can give a normative framework, but it's also the day-to-day and the deontology of professionals regardless of the instructions they can receive in general. I do not believe that they receive specific instructions from those responsible, from managers, from the media. So what did you do to Galician Union? Well, make a code of good practice. That's what we have to do, so that we can follow it logically. And it was developed on its day, it was spread among all the media, and even here it was referred to Members and Members who were part of Parliament at that time. There have been courses aimed at journalists, who have also been invited by members of this House to address the comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence in the media. You were talking about the Compostela Declaration. That code of good practice took the Compostela Declaration as a model. What did you want with this code of good practice? That would serve — I think this is easy to understand — so that each communication company, so that each communication broadcaster, the people who work in these communications companies, then articulate their own self-regulation code in the matter. I think this is the desirable thing. If we understand that this simply works because a mandatory rule, it clearly won't work or, of course, it won't work completely. The self-regulation and awareness of all professionals that daily transmit through the media, I think it's the fundamental thing, and I think it's how it has to work. There were twelve axes. By reminding them — if you ask me — this code of good practice said that we should value information about gender violence in its real dimension — I think this is fundamental —, objecting to what really happened, contextualize the news later, turn to the opinions of experienced people, respect the dignity of the woman in her pain, extreme the zeal and rigour in the management of information sources, spread cases of women coming out of a situation of violence and succeed in making their life—the way of overcoming, which is known this effort—to carry out the follow-up of cases beyond the event in particular, to provide useful information, to identify the aggressor figure and never to justify it, to formulate innovative approaches, to convert information into public service—that must always be, especially by talking about these cases—and to train and specialize the people working in formalisms around this scourge. That's what I meant and what I was looking for in the code of good practice. And it also solves — why not, because there are? — the doubts that may arise, that continue to arise and that will arise for a long time, in the development of information related to violence against women in all media and in all media settings, not only journalists who directly make the new, but also in all of these media environments. Because in the end, this can't just get to the person who's making the news. As you were speaking, there are journalists who also ask that their own media involve themselves much more, indeed, in all this problem. We are all aware that the circumstances that surround each day—and more now, with the immediateness, with all the channels of communication that exist, that we must make the news, the news, quickly and immediately— what they require is that they never forget and that they are very present and very internalized all those deontological codes, of which they have to be very important part of those codes of good practice. We launched a competition called "Communication on Equality" in Galicia, also in 2015, which follows today. In the context of the Galego Observatory against Gender Violence, the Board has created the Advisory Committee on Non-Sexist Advertising with the objective of actually contributing to the fact that all stereotypes that are being transmitted, that continue to be transmitted to today — I believe that we are also improving — through advertising advertisements, and in subliminal advertising, are being eradicated as before, and, in any case, gradually. This is about the measures we've taken. I say it because I have as much time as I have, and because I try to answer all the questions he has asked me. You, in the second question I was asked, were interested in the measures we carried out not only to try and carry out these practices, fulfilling our obligation in the 2007 Law, but also to verify that these self-regulation codes were being applied. Go ahead and tell him first. They're not legal provisions. So, in the end, if there is a breach, who has to decide when to sanction it, it cannot be the Union of Galicia — at least the non-compliance of a law. It's the courts that have to do it. In any case, it's about being vigilant and transmitting any non-compliance we see happening. I would derive this from the maximums responsible. First of all, to the journalist from day to day, who I think has been doing a lot in this direction; but ultimately, the maximums responsible for the media will have to be the maximums responsible for these deontological codes being applied. And speaking of the public media, at the Galician Radiotelevision Company, the board of directors has rules for the handling of these cases, and they are guidelines for public access. You can consult the corporate transparency portal. They are called Rules regulating the audiovisual commercial communication of the Galician Radio Television Corporation. There is a specific chapter on these issues. All gender issues related to women, gender equality and violence are regulated and controlled by the board of directors. So this says nothing more to consult the transparency portal. The company is also part of the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence and the Advisory Commission on Non-Sexist Advertising. I also wondered if we were planning to condition the grants. You said it was an effective tool. Indeed — it is redundancy — when we are talking about resources can be an element. I don't think it's the decisive thing, but we start out that this is more awareness, than something that needs to be done so for many reasons beyond pecuniary sanctions in order not to grant subsidies — you could interpret it as a financial penalty. I think that might be a certain brake, but whoever doesn't want to do it and whoever's not convinced on this subject will probably do the same again, get subsidies or get no grants. In any case, in that sense, the Council of Galicia, in the exercise of its powers, ensures that the rules determining the granting of public grants are complied with and, therefore, the failure to comply with the principle of equality and non-discrimination between men and women would prevent any entity from accessing grants granted. Don't have any doubt about that. And as far as agreements are concerned, clauses are also being introduced in the media agreements — they are now introduced — which oblige newspaper companies to establish a specific reference to the protection of children and also women in everything related to gender equality. And finally — and I am finished, Mr President — by telling you an indicative fact, in the competitions and campaigns for institutional advertising, in the event of a tie between two proposals, they would decide on elements such as, for example, whether one of the communications companies that are paired has or does not, for example, an equality plan with the resulting certification. In that case that company would win and undo the draw. It's just an example I can give you. In the replica I can put you more, but, Mrs. Quinteiro, I think there's a lot to do, I think you've made quite, fortunately for everyone, and I think, in the conviction that things have to be like this, far beyond the financial sanctions and what you can do for the Galician Union, is the progress that we can achieve among you all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u303	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Quinteiro's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u304	Thank you, President. In fact, their answers seem to us to be insufficient. I'm a good statement of intentions but they don't take action. He didn't go deep in many of the questions they asked him, because it's good to talk about the legislation, the Compostela Declaration, the code. But what we want to know is not what makes that legislation, that statement, that code, that we already know, but what they're doing to make this happen and what they're doing to prevent the information from continuing to give to you as I said in my intervention. And in that sense he didn't say anything. And, of course, we don't think it's all solved on the basis of legislation. In fact, that's why we're also on March 8 with women in the streets. Legislation is fundamental, its compliance is also fundamental -- or so they think, because, when they talk about other topics, they would never say a question like this, and I think that if it seems central to legislation -- but the important thing is a social change. But the paradoxical question is that now women, society, go ahead of the administration itself, of Galician Union itself. So there are a lot of women who are seeing, a lot of journalists, these problems that they face every day. And you give no concrete solution. By setting an example that seems very significant to me, that we don't seem to speak the same language and that we don't understand ourselves, is that, when I spoke about the question of the gold medal woman, I didn't say that the problem was that this woman had admired Christmas for being a man. There's no problem where many women admire a lot of people, the problem is like a woman's owner who gets a gold medal the headline so he admires that man and he doesn't have a gold medal, it's his role as a woman. No, he just got a gold medal. And examples like that are so many. I invite you to look for opposite examples of men who were described as admirers of some woman. Maybe he's wrong, but I don't think he's found any. So that's the difference, women who instead of appearing as people, with their own entities, appear constantly subordinated to men. That's what we were talking about. That's why he said we speak different languages, because we didn't talk about the same question. Then, I'm going back to what this code of good practices was released, how the Compostela Declaration was released, how legislation is disseminated in the media itself, in CRTVG itself. What specific questions?, how many?, how long?, what evaluation do they make of that follow-up?, do they have meetings to talk about these issues or have they just made the code? Because if the code was made in 2007 and today the same issues continue to happen... If the legislation is of the year 2007 and if the Compostela Declaration was of the year 2004 and the situation is the same... because the news I was telling you at first is not news of fifteen years ago, it's not news of ten years ago. It's just that many of these cases continue to live with them now, or last month, two months ago, three months ago. So, on these issues, I think you don't think you're thinking about anything at all, I don't think you've done any self-criticism. Of course he'll tell me there's a lot to do, obviously. I was just missing, it's evidence. But I think they've been installed in comfort for a long time, in saying that there are all these codes, there are all these issues, all these good declarations of intentions. But, in practice, what concrete measures?, with what budget?, with what assessment? Do you make any assessment of the equality legislation on this subject specifically? Did they do any evaluation of how many people have come to use the code they've drawn up? Because they make a code and recently they made an interinstitutional coordination protocol. All right, it's a protocol that's fine, but, if you don't make any effort to socialize and that protocol goes on, having a protocol that's very nice on paper is absolutely useless. That's the problem with a lot of protocols and a lot of guides you're working on. That's a theoretical and technical question. And then they don't do anything at all to spread it either to apply it or to meet or absolutely nothing. Then, as I told you, concrete facts are needed. And if we were talking about any other matter — I'm going back to it — it wouldn't be happening. It seems that when it comes to equality, it can be more flexible. When it comes to equality, it doesn't change everything with legislation. Of course not, but you can't go on, after twelve years, allowing it to be done repeatedly. There's legislation, there's a code of good practice. Why aren't you doing it and why don't you do anything to get it done? Because you're not doing it. Why don't you stop giving subsidies to all these means that make these headlines infamous? Because that's the situation. Why don't they stop giving subsidies to the media that banish violence, that publish articles of opinion that are bad and that say that violence against women doesn't exist, that gender-based violence is a matter of two? Why don't they stop giving subsidies to the media that say "dead a woman for love"? I wonder why they keep saying that nothing else can be done at all. Because his intervention was that: We've done this all these years. But it hasn't happened a year or two, I think it's spent more than enough time, more than reasonable, to say that, if twelve years later, nothing of legislation is done at all, something is going to fail. How are we going to improve legislation if, with the very legislation we have today, nothing is being done to comply with it? So the questions are clear. I don't expect you to answer in this second intervention, because you didn't do it in the first. But they'll also have a chance. After this interrogation there will be a motion, and I hope that this motion will vote in favour of the points we have betrayed. Because if they really want to solve the problem of machismo that exists in the media, they have to do something more than good words, which is what we hear today again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Closure of the inquiry by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, indeed, you were going out on this plea saying you weren't convinced. She was no longer convinced at the first time she had told her what she had told her. So it's very complicated. And take the Christmas case again. I know the problem is not that a sportsman admires another sportsman, man or woman who admires or admires him. But it seems to you that it is a very serious thing to say that there is such admiration. If we start with those ideas, we're never going to agree. Be a man or a woman, be a woman or a man, if someone does it well and another person considers it, because I think this is normal, and that it is transmitted by a means of communication. If we take these things to those extremes and if we put those examples, because, indeed, you will always think that the media do it very badly, and that they do it very badly, above, because the Galician Union does absolutely nothing. And, therefore, the Galician Union has the magic cane to suddenly pursue that medium of communication, which I suppose would amount to chasing all that journalist who signs the information, so that these people or have a pecuniary sanction from which they remember their entire life or that the media closes. Well, I don't think things are like that. Of course, the codes of good practice can be disseminated more, of course, more formative actions can be done, but if you believe that the direct intervention of the Administration, absolute interventionism, serves to order society, also in something as important as this, indeed, we will never agree. It's as if I tell you that the political party of Podemos has to stop receiving public subsidies for its operation because Mr. Pablo Iglesias said that "the whipping until it bleeds." That's exactly the same approach. So if you say that, it's a nonsense like a house, that that party doesn't receive any more subsidies. No, you'll have to make it manifest, as it has been said; you'll have to report it and you'll have to try to keep these kinds of demonstrations from repeating. If you think that the solution, or rather all the inappropriate treatment in the media is about equality and macho violence, is because the Union is on the cross-armed side, and whoever says to Junta, I suppose it will talk about other administrations, also the councils in which you rule and subsidize those media. Look, I don't know why they didn't cut them at all. Maybe they think -- because they have government responsibilities and you don't have them -- that administrations can do a lot to fix this, but they can't give you the button to stop it. And if all these measures are promoted among all the administrations without biasing all this, without coming here saying that the culprit is an administration governed by a particular political party, I think that, if we don't do that, we're probably moving forward. If you keep thinking that this is a matter of politics, political parties, ideology, that nothing is done because you don't want to, and if you want to end up with problems, you'll probably take a long time to rule, and if you ever ruled — that I think you don't — you'll realize that things are otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u307	Thank you, Vice President. La Maria Luisa Pierres López and four other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the measures to implement and encourage the Galician Union to improve the continuing training of women's information centres staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u308	Mrs. Pierres has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u309	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. Rueda, in the period since the entry into force of Decree 182/2004, the information centres for women, known as CIM, have revealed themselves as instruments of decisive importance at the local level in promoting gender equality, thanks, on the one hand, to the activities they are carrying out, and on the other hand, for the care provided to the persons who requested the service, especially in the legal, psychological and information fields of access to available resources. Within the care provided, women in vulnerable situations should be particularly highlighted for various reasons and, in particular, the service provided to women who were victims of gender-based violence or who were at risk of being potential sufferers of this situation. In this way, ICDs have become decisive tools in preventing, detecting, treating and fighting in general against this social problem from a relationship of closeness and direct attention. Decree 160/2016 sets CIMs up as a set of resources from local entities, from which the global intervention addressed to women, which provide legal advice, psychological care, professional and socio-laborative guidance, as well as any other information aimed at achieving effective equality between women and men. By the way, attention is paid to women and men who ask for information provided at the centres in relation to equality. If we pay attention to the main functions of ICDs, these are, or should be, as a matter of priority, prevention, information, counselling activities, generally fighting against gender-based violence, as well as attention to women victims of gender-based violence; attention that can be extended to children and children as well as to minors or older persons who are dependent on them. The attention also to women belonging to other groups in situations of vulnerability or risk of social exclusion. Information, care and counseling for lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals, intersexuals, their families, and people close to them. It also provides professional, socio-laborative advice and facilitates any other information geared towards achieving effective equality between women and men. Since the General Secretariat of Equality itself, the comprehensive network at the territorial level of CIM has been referred to as an instrument for the collaboration and sharing of information between centres, in which it also participates the competent body in the area of equality of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, mainly with a role of support and coordination. Well, the reality is that today there are 81 CIMs throughout Galicia serving a total of 177 municipalities. And since the Socialist Party we wonder what happened so that 136 municipalities are not integrated into this network today. The reality is that some council or either opts to offer the same services as the CIM but with its own resources and self-management, and others attend cases through social services and derive from cases that proceed to the nearest CIM. It is a situation that we understand — even if it is shown that it can meet a basic need — that it does not feed on the greatest virtue that the CIM network should have, and it is precisely the advantage of being part of an integral network that should be of quality; that it takes better advantage of resources and that it allows the transmission of knowledge and experiences in order to improve and ensure really effective attention. They are eminently the rural municipalities, besides those who still lack this service, either own or belong to those man-community centres that exist. Even so, it is found that only 27% of Galician municipalities — 21 of the 313 CIS — count on the profile of an equal agent; a professional profile that is fundamental to ensuring the application of the gender perspective in each of the actions being carried out. It is also completely discriminatory and incoherent that this professional profile is subsidised under others of the same professional category, such as legal counseling or psychological counseling, as is the case, which is, I repeat, totally incoherent and discriminatory. These and many other issues have been suggested and claimed in the annual CIM reports of all Galicia of 2017. 47% of the centres that provided their comments point to many issues, some of which are operational and of the highest urgency, and some are much more structural. Suggestions based, of course, on their experience and with the spirit of all -- understanding -- of improving to offer better service. That is the reason for our appeal today, Counselor, to echo these proposals and ask you about the degree of hearing and action of your government with regard to them. I want to share with you, from the most constructive spirit — and believe me that it is — some of these points to know your opinion and appreciation about them. To begin with, one of the most sought-after issues refers to the need for greater institutional cooperation and between the CIS themselves. There are several centres that recognize having no relationship with the rest, so they consider it interesting to create protocols aimed at coordinating and optimizing gender-based violence actions with interdisciplinary meetings between all and all professionals in the CIM network, as well as with all entities dedicated to working on the issue of equal opportunities between women and men. This, logically, would allow us to exchange experiences and implement successful projects developed by some of these entities in each of the municipalities and centres themselves. Within this same issue, they also mention the necessary inter-autonomic cooperation between networks of centres. This is to promote meetings with entities aimed at promoting the equality of other autonomous communities for the same purpose, in order to add experiences carried out in other communities and incorporate them into the activities of the Greek ICDs. There is almost unanimity in the claim for an improvement in the functioning of the CIM management platform. Despite expressing many of the central officials who if some improvements have been made, complaints about the operation of the centre are repeated again, especially when it comes to data dumping and repetition of processes in programs that could or should share the same databases. This claim we think is more important than it might seem, because it makes no sense, in a service that should give priority to the attention of women victims of violence, that it is overloaded by administrative work, because this logically subtractes hours of work and attention or prevention, which should be the really important of these professionals, especially in those centres that do not have the professional profile of administrative staff and the work does it directly to the psychologist, the legal or the social worker. They also mention the need to reformulate this user data implementation system for the justification required by CIM actions, in order to ensure the confidentiality of users in particular. The protocols specified in the forms require requesting personal data from users who often make it difficult and even intimidating to them, which separates the service from their real task, which should be to offer close and unconditional advice. The collection of these tokens with user data and signatures, as well as their incorporation into complicating computer files, clash with the initial essence of the CIMs, in which it should dominate — I insist — the anonymity and the secret of interventions. The directors and professionals of the centers are seriously warning us of the reluctance of these women to sign these tokens, because of their mistrust that this act involves public visibility of their status as users of these centers, especially in rural areas. We understand that this is a question that really deserves a reflection by the Administration, so we also ask you about it. They also talk about the necessary reactivation of the work programme for women victims of gender-based violence by the Labour Council. It is found that women — and they say so — who have been targeted for years in that program have not been called at any time. And, of course, they also comment on a question that has already been discussed on several occasions here, such as the necessary security of self-financing of the CISG network. It is demanded that the Galician Union generate an economic share with its own funds for the financing of the CIM network, since today it still depends on European funds for its livelihood. That the network survives over time cannot depend only on European funding, because that is the location — and you know, Mr Rueda — in a limbo of constant insecurity that should not be the desirable thing for a service that I know you also defend and put into value as long as you can. Therefore, I think it is time to ensure the survival of it, as well as its reinforcement. That's why and because of many other questions that are discussed in those annual reports and which I will continue to mention in my second turn, because there are many questions, I ask you, Counsellor, first: Do you understand this government that the analysis of the CIM professionals in their annual memoirs is the best way to review and improve the functioning of a network of vital centers for work towards equality and attention to victims of gender violence? How do you evaluate the statistical data and the training actions carried out by the centres during 2017? Has the General Secretariat of Equality been paying attention to the suggestions and demands expressed by the CIM professionals in the evaluation reports of last year 2017? What kind of measures have you taken since the receipt of these reports in any case, and how do you intend to enhance the urgent presence of these centres in the Greek territory in 2019? For my part, for the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, first of all, I thank you for the constructive tone and the concrete questions you have asked; that she does in the interpellation and in addition to what she has now done from the rostrum. I'll try to answer in my intervention about all those I've ever asked in the interpellation, and then to some that's not in the interpellation, but that you did here, I can also answer you. Apart from that, I think it's random questions that deserve an answer in that sense. First I have to say that I agree, indeed, that information centres to women are a very important resource. I say this because at some point, especially at the beginning, it was in doubt that the local scope was the most suitable precisely for this proximity, because it could have many women refused to come to them thinking that they did not offer the necessary confidentiality reservations. Fortunately, it has proved quite the opposite, above all, and practically exclusively, by professionals, almost all women, who work at these centers, who from the very first moment believed it was all the opposite. So if they've been consolidating the CIS, and today there's... you don't have the data updated exactly, I update it. There's one more CISG. It's 82 centers and 183 municipalities that are now being cared for by the CIS. It is true that there are many municipalities left unattended, but it is also true that this depends on the will of the various municipal officials. And he had no doubt that the Galician Union was doing its best to make the CIM number grow. You yourself said in your intervention that there are municipalities that choose to care for these women in any other way, through social services, deriving from the CIM that already exist elsewhere, but often there are many miles away from those municipalities that choose not to create a CIM. What I can assure you is that the Galician Union is going to support any council that wants to do a CIM, especially if it does so together with others, which I believe that especially in rural areas is the way to ensure their permanence and their effectiveness. In the latter case, it is a municipal resource, as you know, and therefore the decision of its creation is also a matter of municipal autonomy, of course with the support and impulse of the Galician Union. We're convinced there's got to be more CIM and there's got to be more municipalities served by the CIM. And municipalities that right now make these drifts, they could have their own CIM, probably. What are we doing to push these CIMs from Galicia? We encouraged their coordination — you spoke of coordination, then I will try to speak too — to provide quality service, of course, and uniform throughout the territory. There's bigger CISM, in the sense that they care for more people, and they can have more resources, but I think the service has to be recognizable, and recognizable with the proper quality, in any municipality of any point in Galicia. There is a decree to believe the CIM before it works, of the year 2016, which is precisely trying to achieve that goal. Of course, we advise — as I said before — the local authorities concerned with constituting them, and we encourage and guarantee such funding. We also train professionals — women, especially — who work in these centers. And we also support — as you know — economically its operation with an annual order of approach. Indeed, right now you have a very important part of that funding — and I already have one of the things you were asking out of the question — with the European Social Fund. While these funds exist, logically, the obligation of the Administration is to use them. There is no doubt in you that, when these funds disappear, this is a resource that has to remain in the territory, and of course the administrations will have to agree — to the first meeting of Galicia — to ensure another type of financing. This is not new, it has already happened with other services that are provided in cooperation between administrations. I put another example that depends on my responsibilities. Emergency groups started with a very important part of European funding, this anxiety also occurred in the GHG professionals, wondering what would happen when they retired. Right now, the percentage of grants with funds that aren't own has dropped a lot. When a service is needed and works, the administration's obligation is to seek resources, and there's no doubt in you that the Galician Board will do so when these funds -- hey, let's hope they last a long time! But when these funds don't exist, the need for service has to be maintained. I think the professionals in the CIM know that, and, of course, if they have that anxiety, they can be calm. We have allocated EUR 35 million since 2009 to the functioning of the CIS, I think it's an important amount. Therefore, we are aware that economic effort must be maintained. By entering your specific questions, you were asking about the memories of the CIS. Of course, first, they have to make them responsible for the CIM. And, of course, I'm a source of first-hand information, a very qualified source of information, from the professionals who work there. So it's the ones that have to tell the Galician board what's working and, above all, what needs to be corrected. So, of course we give them how important they are! It's also not the only way to get information, the only source. As they are co-financed with the social funds — which I was talking about a moment ago — there are also inspections and checks, and the European Union authorities are obviously visiting these centres and finding that they are working properly. And if there's a problem, they put it -- there was no doubt in you, and there were some cases -- on the table to correct it, because otherwise funding would be lost. So, these ground visits, I think, are also very convenient, and the Galician Union assumes an additional source of information. And also his own visits to Galician Union. First, because in that decree of what I was talking about before, of the year 2016, this is expressly established; and then, because I believe that during these years we have shown that these visits are made. Apart from that, they are no longer inspection visits, they are visits of knowledge, of interaction with municipal officials, so that they are aware of the most important resource they have — that is the first —. I am grateful that the municipal officials of all political parties are always on those visits and are aware of the most important resource they have there. And, of course, also for professionals and for the Galician Union, I think these visits are very necessary. I have done several things myself and, of course, the General Secretariat of Equality very much all this time. In addition, many of the professionals working at ICDs are voluntarily associated, since 2015, in the Association Association, and we also have a relationship that I think is quite fluid — of course, improved — between the Galician Union and the professionals who are in this association. You also asked me about statistical data during 2017 — which are the last ones that are closed —. I give them in a very rough way. According to this data, the CIM itself was treated in 2017, 16,107 people: that were 12,986 women, 763 men — they are also cared for in the CIM; this is a reality that is sometimes unknown, but there are also men who attend the CIM in demand of the service—and there is something more than 3,000 people, of which in that data dump — that is something to be perfected — do not specify their sex. How many interventions took the CIMs in 2017? Almost seventy thousand —60,971 —. Legal advice — many of them — more than twenty thousand; psychological care, 24,000; attention to victims of gender-based violence specifically, 10,348; guidance and employment, 3,300; information on various resources, 8,301; information on courses, newspapers and activities, more than five hundred These data can be facilitated, if you have no problems. And there's also another kind of activity, apart from those that directly demand users and users who attend there: training courses in a lot of subjects have to do with what the ICDs do. Therapeutic performance sessions, workshops of different themes, awareness-raising campaigns... I also wondered about the suggestions and demands expressed by the CIM professionals and how they deal with each other. In the replica I'll try to stop a little more, but I'll stop in two -- you've named some -- I think they're important. The operation of the management application. In fact, there's been an improvement just recently. Through Amtega, everything that had to do with data filtering was improved, which was actually a problem with data reservation and identity-hiding issues, so important in a lot of cases that were raised in the CIS. There had to be an improvement, and I think it was done. They did not actually — at least at the moment, many times because of technical matters, according to Amtega, some of the demands that were being made; and in others it must also be said that it is legitimate to make such an approach, but some CISGs were considering very specific things that had to do with circumstances of that very CISG. We're talking about this as a common platform for the more than eighty centers, and therefore all the things that are introduced have to have that perspective. They also demand higher-training professionals. Indeed, there have been a number of courses. Training is always improved and never enough training is going to be given, but speaking of the year 2017, information has been made. He took part in a very important percentage of the CIM professionals, who were demanding precisely training on how to enter the data so as not to use more time of the essential and be able to take care of what is really important in those CIMs, there was a formative day on it. In 2018, the five delegations of the Galician Union met and held formative meetings to disseminate all the funding orders of the Galician Union that could be useful to the users of the CIS. In June there was training in gender-based violence, a series of talks with a series of university specialists. In September, training for information centres for women in gender-based violence, with an updated approach to juvenile violence, crime victim status, European protection order and progress in the State Covenant. And lastly — and finally, Mr President — you asked me, Mrs Pierres, in the written inquiry if we thought we would continue to enhance the presence of these centres in the territory. I answered at first: yes, no doubt. Logically, there won't be a CIM number equivalent to the number of municipalities that exist in Galicia for a number of obvious reasons, but we believe that there can still be a lot more than there can be. We will therefore continue to encourage and guarantee funding and therefore need the decisive involvement of the political leaders of the different parties. If you see the political colour of the municipalities where a CISG exists, you will see that it is quite representative of the political distribution of the municipal power that exists in Galicia, which means that this ultimately transcends ideologies, and we realize that it is a service that is necessary, to govern who governs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u312	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u313	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I announced at the beginning of my intervention that I wanted to be constructive and I will be faithful to that spirit, basically because for this parliamentary group the priority is to help improve everything that has to do with guaranteeing women's rights and, in particular, victims of gender violence. So let me continue to share with this House the many other suggestions — some of you have already put forward — that since the different CIMs in Galicia have been transmitted in their annual reports. There are several suggestions as to the training of ICD professionals. Among other issues, they call for the necessary provision of courses on immigration and collective LGTBI; of course, they adapt to the new decree governing the CIMs. There is also increased training in the legal area, especially in the legislative field of care for minor victims of gender-based violence. Training also specializes in very particular aspects related to attachment, emotional dependence or trauma. And also educational activities on the care of women who suffer from addiction. They also talk about the necessary offer — and I think this is important — of the annual training plan for the first year. They say that training is not just reduced to the last quarter, as is usual, but also insufficiently. We believe that the claim is very logical, because in the last quarter of the year it is precisely when required or requested, among other matters, the drafting of annual assessments and memories, which prevents many workers from being able to attend courses properly, most of which are planned — as I say — in these last days of the year. And, of course, it doesn't guarantee proper attention for users and users who approach these dates to the centers. We would have won — we believe — and much so, if we could better plan the annual agenda in the first year and thus ensure better training for the users and the professionals, and with this also better attention to users. Finally, we also mention many issues that have to do with improvements in the needs of the resources and means of the CIS itself. On the one hand, they talk about providing more technical means suitable for the diagnosis and evaluation of psychologists, in order to prepare the reports for the trial. I should like to say that the lack of resources has led to the fact that reports have been issued, which undoubtedly diminishes the work and function of these professionals, which are essential in the CIS. They also demand and warn of the necessary increase in economic and social hospitality resources that allow them to break up with personal situations of violence in women of high vulnerability — whether with problems of addiction, prostitution — and take steps towards independence and autonomous life with their children and daughters, in case they have them. And here they speak — and we share it, in addition, deeply — of the hiring of professional profiles of social work and of guidance and labour intermediation, especially in nuclei of more than 20,000 inhabitants. This would undoubtedly allow for greater comprehensive intervention with women and children who suffer from gender-based violence and complement and work inter-professionally with psychologists, legal advisers and equality agents, which we believe should be indispensable in all CISGs, taking into account, in addition, the concept and nature of women's information centres. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that the annual evaluation of any of the measures implemented to combat violence against men is essential, because it enables them to achieve better effectiveness and effectiveness. We believe that these annual reports are a tool that should be highly valued and valued by this Government, and in this case, and given the battery of suggestions — because, as you have come here, they are very many — starting from the professionals themselves of the centers, we believe that it is urgent to put in place improvements that enable these centers to make the real integral network that allows the counselling, training and care of women victims, as well as the promotion of gender equality. Hardly, Mr. Rueda, if you can consider a network that structure that can't cover the whole of the Greek territory, leaving out of something more than 43% of the municipalities of our community. So I ask you again whether you have thought of considering this Government all the suggestions reflected in the annual reports of Galician CIMs and to enhance the presence of a true comprehensive and quality network for attention to women victims of gender violence, regardless of their location on the territory. What do you think prevents the implementation of CIMs in municipalities that still don't have them? What do you think is the missing barrier to overthrow in that sense? And how can you really encourage the Council of Galicia so that the different municipalities of Galicia really encourage them to implement them? For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Closure of the inquiry, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, at the end of your speech you asked me again about a very important subject; indeed. No network can be considered which only covers half of the territory. I'm telling you, covering 100 percent is very complicated. In any case, we're going to do everything we can, but I'm going to tell you that it doesn't — and in this case less than in any other — depend only on the will of the Galician Union. If there were more CISG in Galicia's joints at the moment. And, above all, I'm going to tell you one thing, especially in rural areas, there would be more shared CIS. I think it has been shown that in small municipalities one CISM can be sufficient, well coordinated, to meet many municipalities that now have absolutely nothing. And there we again enter the culture of municipal cooperation, in my opinion — we have said so many times —, frankly improved not only in Galicia, probably throughout Spain. This would be one of the resources in which it would probably be shown that municipal cooperation and sharing efforts would give a very large multiplier effect. So we'll try to keep going. There's something very encouraging to me. At least in recent times, none of the CIMs that put into operation closed except one, is the occasion of the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. I think it was a very bad example of what CISGs are and how they have to work. I have to tell you because it was a case between 80 and two, and that it had been left out of service, a council, I think, of an important size, without many explanations, I didn't talk much about the usefulness. Fortunately, it was a case between 80 and two and had no further repercussions. You say he doesn't like it. Probably, if the People's Party were to rule that county, I'd be telling myself how they close that CIS. It happened there, it didn't happen anywhere else, and I don't think it should happen, because if what we're talking about is trying to extend them, it's nothing good that, without giving many reasons, a council shuts down. We're going to keep pushing them or trying to give the service where they suddenly quit, as is the case. We are aware that it is also a matter of economic resources, because this is a shared expense and therefore the Galician Union has to make an important effort. In this Parliament a proposal was approved for the State Pact to raise money to the municipalities to fight against gender violence because they are insufficient, and, above all, in the case of Galicia the small municipalities, the rural municipalities, are the ones that because of these criteria of distribution that have been set out are particularly damaged, and that needs to be corrected, they have to have a more important part, and while what will attempt to try the Galician Junta is the result of the councils to solve that economic insufficiency. We're doing it. 8 million a year, we're going to add 2 million. We have recently signed a framework agreement with Fegamp so that it is the municipalities that promote measures of labour integration. That's why you asked me in your first intervention. What are we gonna do there? So give it to the municipalities, especially those municipalities that have CIM, money so that they can set up measures that favor women victims of gender-based violence. And we're going to do it through the municipalities, which are the ones who best know the data — especially all those that have CIM, especially those — to ensure the effectiveness of the measure. We will also add EUR 800,000 — you have been talking about almost the third part of what corresponds to the Galician Union — to which the municipalities also set out measures to reconcile and promote equality. And logically, we're going to do it as well, where possible, through the CIS. So there we enhance the work of the municipalities and enhance the resources that we put in the hands of the professionals. I was wondering — and I want to answer — about the question of equality agents. It's not a mandatory job, as you know, and we've talked about it with the municipalities. He probably knows that there are two mandatory positions in the CIS right now, which is the psychologist and the juridical advisor. If we also put on equality agents, many municipalities have told us that probably, in the part they have to co-finance, that would mean a very important effort. So it's a voluntary job and it's not subsidized in the same way. This has to be spoken to the municipalities. If we began to impose measures on a resource we shared, even if we were to make an important contribution, especially in small municipalities, this would probably reflect the creation of more CIS and even if some of those that are already in existence were kept. This is what they've been passed on to us, and therefore that's why I want to explain it to you. If we notice at some point that's not the case, that can be reconsidered, but there's no other reason than that right now. Just like you told me that CIM professionals demand more resources to be able to make psychological reports. You know that's not a problem, because then, in many cases, the psychological reports that come from CIMs have a number of problems, a number of reluctances, to be accepted. We're making an important effort in the resources for psychological reports in the judges themselves. We can also do it at the CIM, but it's not just a question of resources, it's a question of whether these reports coming from the CIM are accepted in the courts, which are not in many cases, and a second report has to be made. And then — quickly finished, Mr President, I will try to answer everything — in fact, professionals demand more cooperation between them. That of networking is important, and that's where we have to move forward, of course. I think the encounters, just that they know each other, that they know who's in each place and then they make relationships, it's important and beneficial, and we keep promoting all that. Inter-autonomic cooperation. There will be no doubt of the capacity and interest of the Galician Union that there will be much better cooperation between autonomous communities. We just demonstrated yesterday with the act of the Atlantic Corridor, and in this very important matter we will also try to make more and more exchanges. And I think now, with the resources we receive from all the autonomous communities at the bottom of the state, it's a good opportunity to try to improve there. I don't have any more time, Mrs. Pierres, I really appreciate what you've been talking about in this interrogation. At least on the side of the Government of Galicia, I consider it useful. We were aware of these demands, not all of them can be met, we tried to explain to the professionals what they are and what they do not, but I think it is a great initiative that, through the political groups, in a calm debate, if you talk about it in Parliament and that any party, government or opposition, transmits it and we try to reach agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u316	Thank you, Vice President. We move on to item 7 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other G.P. Members of the Galician Socialists, on the reasons of the Galician Council for paying the expenses incurred by the housing of the head prosecutor of the Ourense Provincial Court
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u317	You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u318	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen, and good afternoon, Counselor. On February 11 we knew through the newspaper El País a new, information from journalist Cristina Huete, that the Galician Board has been paying for more than ten years the rent of a flat to the Chief Prosecutor of the Ourense Provincial Audience. By the way, despite the fact that the information coverage was done in all the media, both state-owned and autonomous, there was once again blackout on the public autonomic channel, on the TVG, because it again acted that communication cabinet of the People's Party that we have so often denounced. Since this person took office in 2004, and after the signing by the Government of Greece of a lease contract with a private one, all of the Greeks and Greeks were paying 950 euros a month, plus the maintenance costs of the housing, for a floor of more than 200 square meters in the city center, to the prosecutor, a person who earns several thousand euros a month. In the meantime, the situation of youth in this autonomous community tells us that we are on the verge of emancipation, not only from Spain, but also from the whole European Union. The policy of subsidising the rent to the judicial office was practically finished, until in 2008 it was the Government of Mr. Touriño who ultimately handled the coup, withdrawing it from the president of the Provincial Court of Lugo and also the Chief Prosecutor of Ourense. We did it because we thought it was a privileged situation inherited and contrary to public interest. According to our understanding, the arrival of Mr. Feijóo has maintained this privilege. In 2016, the contract was terminated and continued to pay for the light, water and heating by the Vice-President, the prosecutor continues to reside on this floor and the owner of the residence asked the Government of Greece not to pay the monthly fees. We have registered this question by means of urgency because we understand that the Greek Government must give clear explanations immediately as to whether it was intended at some point to influence the decisions of the U.S. Attorney's Office. We're talking about an important body, an organ that is now being challenged by the State Attorney General's Office itself with an open procedure; a serious disciplinary failure, of abuse of authority, of a complaint in a different case. It is an important institution that promotes the action of justice, the rights of citizenship, in favour of social and public interest, which must always be governed by legality and impartiality. With which question is clear, why have you been paying this person's rent? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u320	Mr. President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. In this regard, let me point to three questions. The first is that more than 15 years ago there could be situations that would justify certain charges if they were provided with a housing to ensure their stability in the coverage of their jobs, especially when there were transfers to Galicia of officials from other areas of Spain with geographic mobility conditions to access this type of square. However, with the passage of time, and with the assumption of new powers by the Self-Government, this practice ceased to be justified and resulted in unnecessary. In fact, until this government settled the contract of the case it referred to, it was the only one that kept it. Secondly, I want to tell you that the payment of this rent is not limited to the last decade that you ask, but has been unabated since 2004. So this rent was maintained with both PP and Bipartite governments. On January 26, 2006, you updated this contract, the same as you curiously did on April 27, 2007. The only difference is that the current Government was the only one who decided in 2016 to definitely settle the lease contract and finalize it, so this is the first time this matter reaches the trial. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we're the only ones who've definitely done it. Therefore, very few or practically none lessons. Third, as you want to limit the matter to the last decade, I see the obligation to remind you of what they did when you were government, because I told you that this contract is also earlier. Many times, since your group complains about the references we make to the Bipartite, and on this occasion, even in the written formulation of your question, you assume it, textually saying, "In 2008, the Board chaired by Emilio Pérez Touriño has ended with the cases of renters subsidized to judicial positions remaining in the community, considering that it is supposed to maintain situations of privilege contrary to public interest." Well, Your Honor, do you know what the two-party government did, what I so strongly insisted on in your question, when I was in office? I suppose not, because I suppose I wouldn't ask the question as you did. On 10 March 2009, that two-party government, acting in office, issued a legal report on the pre-civil road claim that the tenant had made. And you know how to draw up that report? With three things. First, the termination of payment was wrong. Second, we had to keep the rent. And thirdly, we had to pay the rent to the tenant. So, what are we left with? [[Murmurs.]] With a government in functions that has gone back to what you just formulated, to restore those privileges of what you also talk about in the question? I repeat again, the only government today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u321	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u322	...limited this type of rental is this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u323	Thanks, time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u324	Thank you very much, President. Well, Mr. Counsellor, I do indeed remain with a government which, after you have done absolutely nothing on that subject, had communicated that decision, which was also an initiative of the presiding officer, who was then Mr. Méndez Romeo. I remain with a government that in the middle of a crisis period, when in this autonomous community — according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary — 1,201 buildings rented in this autonomous community in 2015, all the Greeks and Greeks were paying the dwelling to the prosecutor of Ourense. I'm left with a government that works in terms of equity, not with a government that distributes people between VIPs, with decision-making capacity, and supposedly to directly benefit the People's Party, and citizenship on foot. [[Applause]] Look, in 2015 -- I mean this -- a woman reported Baltar for alleged sexual harassment... the prosecutor decided to file... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I'd like you to let me finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u325	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u326	The prosecutor decided to file the complaint for offering him sex work. The president of the board, when he met this decision, said: The prosecutor spoke loud and clear. Only six months later was when you terminated the contract. While that decision was pending, you continued to pay the rent on that floor. [[Murmurs.]] I have already told you that, as you continue without explaining anything at all, because you have not answered the question why these renters were being paid, the PSdeG will ask the State Prosecutor's Office to review all those actions carried out by the Chief Prosecutor of the Ourense Court to find out if they were done under the principles of legality and impartiality that should be based not only on Ourense, but on the whole autonomous community. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, in Ourense we all know what's going on, but we're not afraid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u328	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u329	Quiet, please. Close the question, Mr. Councilman of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u330	Your Honor, I am truly sorry, I honestly believe that what you have is information ponds. You just fell into a new mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u331	I'm sorry, you don't listen well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u332	I told him he was a government in office, curiously ten days after the election, which makes certain decisions. You just appointed a councillor who was at your time in the presidency. I can also tell you — thank God he's still alive — how that same counselor removed the subject from the agenda of the board of assembly that he had previously passed through secretaries. So, very few lessons. I repeat again, it is the first time that this government, for almost three years, has been a subject that is being tried at the moment... why don't we let it go? In the month of November, to a question very similar to this formulated by you, which I answered, I told you, don't notice in my words, of moderation and temperance, weakness in acting this counselor and this government. Please! Look very carefully, try to document yourself a little bit to ask questions, and sometimes they're like a mushroom. I repeat again, we are on a very serious subject, but lessons on the original sin of the People's Party, none. [[Applause]] So let's get to work. Since the subject is judicialized, let's get to work. With a very clear premise: this government is the first to take the subject to where it is. This government is what it is always, as it has done, does and will do, in defense of the heritage that the autonomous community has. Lessons, very few, and less in this case. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the budgetary executions of the Ministry of Development in the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u334	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We are going to ask a question about state infrastructure investments in the Autonomous Community of Galicia which are practically the only direct investments — if I may use the term — that the State makes in the autonomous communities. Before I move on, I'd like to make an important shade. I can add, I can stay, I can calculate percentages, and I can even interpret indexes. A statement that I can extend to the total opposition on this side. I say this because the President this morning has certainly raised doubts about the arguments made by some members of the opposition. [[Applause]] Look, just over a month ago, Mr. Tellado, with that eloquence which characterizes him and which systematically applies to the disqualification of the opposition, asked him questions about what Galicia had to expect the 2019 budget project, which, of course, already lacks any kind of practical transcendence, since we all know on the stage where we are. With regard to the budgets of previous years, and I quote the media — specifically those of the year 2016 — Mr. Tellado said: In relation to the general budgets of the state for 2016, the spokesperson for the popular Greeks pointed out that the accounts are a central government bet for Galicia and a guarantee of stability. "Galicia counts for the Rajoy Government," stressed the spokesperson of the People's Party of Galicia, while raising the importance of investment in games such as the AVE, even despite the difficult times experienced by economic crises. And he continued: The spokesperson for the Galician People's Party, Miguel Tellado, yesterday carried out a "qualitative" assessment — intercommitted — of the bill of general government budgets for 2016, which he called the budget of recovery. The Ministry of Development will be the largest investor in Galicia, which will be the second largest investment community in this department. In total, it highlighted the amount invested in the last five years. You'll allow me to make a reference to the term alharaca. Alharaca is the extraordinary manifestation or expression for which, for a slight reason, it manifests vehemence of some effect such as anger, complaint, admiration or joy. What Mr. Tellado did was alharacas. Alharacas because the data — data from the General Intervention of the State and therefore I understand that they are reliable, or so we must all understand — show that between the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 the General Administration of the State, Mr. Rajoy's Government, has failed to implement 54% of the Development Budgets and 60% of the budgets corresponding to the AVE. What is your assessment, Counselor, of this data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u336	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Despite allusions, answer the counselor. That will ultimately depend on how the debate goes. But now, in principle, he answers the counselor. We're going to leave the counsellor who answers, who has to bring up the prepared subjects. Director of Infrastructure and Mobility. Whenever you want, advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u337	Thank you, President. Your Honor, first of all, I would like to thank you for your understanding of this question on purely familiar matters. In any case, what surprises me today is this question in question. I think you just said it, is the reaction to a question that Mr. Miguel Tellado asked me about state-level budgets that were fortunately not approved, they remained at all. The truth is, when they tell truths, truths like these, truths hurt. And that's what happened to you. Those truths hurt because the budgets presented by the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez were an intolerable downturn in infrastructure, a highly criticized accounts, where you were left alone because everyone understood it was an aggravating to Galicia in infrastructure. I think they've been picked up on that issue when I told the truth, and they've posed this question as an urgent one. An urgent question from the 2015, 2016 and 2017 budgets. I think it's been raining for years. So I think they're hiding the truth when they're really telling each other. So I'll give you an answer, but the question you're dealing with was a smoke curtain because of that aggravation to Galicia that you've tried to defend, when it was some state budgets that for Galicia have been the worst state budgets for 17 years and that you've tried to defend, the budgets of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez. Budgets that were expected to fall investment in Galicia by 30% and rise in Catalonia by 57%. Therefore, the truth insists again that they hide. I always say, Mr. Álvarez, that self-comprehensiveness should not be a good attitude for public servants. I think public servants must be permanently dissatisfied, always wanting to get more, I think so. I think all public servants, of course, we have to want more and more for our people. I think we all know, and I think you too, that the biggest investment in infrastructure in Galicia was at the time of the People's Party in Madrid. I think you should share that these are the biggest investments. The A-8 motorway is finished; the Atlantic axis, the AVE to Galicia, unlocked and pushed; the Lugo-Santiago highway — works in service and works fully running — passed from the role to reality with the Government of Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, and with these budgets that you were defending, which are the worst of the last seventeen years, the Santiago-Luco highway was completely slowed down. We'll keep track of the investments, of course, but the exceptional circumstances of 2017-2015 I think you know: a continuous political blockade that certainly affects the execution and also has a name, which is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u338	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u339	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I'm sure I'm sure, in some scientific text that you've studied during your training, the QED abbreviations, which have been Quod was demonstrated, that is, how we wanted to demonstrate. And we've just shown -- his answer thus proves -- that he has no good valuation to do about what we ask him to do. The reality is that. And look, our question wasn't a question of reaction, because the reaction necessarily implies the previous existence of an action, and frankly, Mr. Tellado's question of action had little, it was rather a question of lucidation — a mixture of personnel, a mix of politics — with regard to the proposed budgets for the year 2019. It is therefore shown, as Mr. Tellado said, but in another corollary, that when the People's Party and Galicia rule the People's Party in Spain, Galicia is wrong. It's wrong, because the data you didn't contradict -- although I suppose you can do it in your response shift -- show the figures we put in our question, that is, those are the levels of budget and the levels of execution. They are all contrasted because they are — I insist — data from the General State Intervention and therefore data that anyone can consult and know. When you plan on infrastructures 3,251 million over three years, 2015, 2016 and 2017, and you run 1,521, proportionality is simple, the percentage, the rule of three, as you want to call it, says that's 46.8%. And when Adif's work, AVE's, is budgeting 1,986 million in those same years, and they run 810, it means that 40.82% was executed. And if we are generous, that in our statement we said that the People's Party's commitment to Galicia is, at most, 50% of what they say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u340	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[Applause]] Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u341	In 2016, 2017, you haven't deepened in the exceptional circumstances of those years. You know it's circumstances that, of course, do not help budget execution, they don't help management capacity, nor government decisions, because 2016 you know that it was a year in function, after elections in December 2015, elections later in June 2016, and of course, almost a year with political blockade, which affects, of course. There's a limited action for budgetary execution, it's months of interim management and governance. And that's the consequence of something, something called "you're not in", something called the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applause]] Therefore, 2017, also limited management capacity, because, Your Honor, the blockades don't go out for free, and we're back to today — in addition to the problems in 2016-2017 — in Spain without budgets and with two elections in less than two months. So the blocks know you don't come out for free. But in any case, we preach with the example; you should preach with the example too. I think the budgets are important, the execution too, but the fact is that the government's budget execution of these years is in the middle of the budgets from which you rule, for example, in Vigo and Lugo, and I'm going to give you some example, and in some case even less. The year 2017, the Vigo Council, does not reach 52%; the Ministry of Development in that year, 54.5%, therefore more; although in 2017 the state budget was approved in the middle of the year. Lugo Town Hall, 2016, for example, has left almost half of its budget unimplemented. Vigo Town Hall, no longer spends seven of ten euros. In 2015, the Town Hall of Place less than 40% and Development more than 50%. In any case, in 2017 the Town Hall of Lugo didn't even report, which I do think is more serious. In any case, it's easier to see straw in a strange eye than to stand in one's own way. So we preach with the example in the Galician Union. Budget execution in those years in the Galician Infrastructure Agency the management centre with more investment, more than 90%; major public works auction in 2015, 158 million euros; 2016, 196 million euros; and 2017, 230 million euros. So we will continue to work and not be satisfied, but we preach with the example. In any case, as I said, in the budgets of the State — I believe it is important — we tabled amendments on questions about the transfer of AP-9, in the spirit of justice to the fees; amendments that call for coherence, coherence that, of course, do not have you. With Mariano Rajoy they seemed insufficient 10%; with Bipartite they seemed enough, a achievement, 8%; and now they applaud 6.2%. We are consistent and demanding. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Tellado, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u343	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I was going to ask the floor for allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u344	References.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u345	...because I was repeatedly referred to, but I just wanted to propose an amendment to the regulation so that the Socialist Group could ask a deputy spokesperson for the People's Party, because the question, actually, I don't think it was the advisor, I think it was for us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u347	I think it's hard to be of the Socialist Party, because we have to defend that 6% is more than 11%, but I suppose it's at the bottom of a campaign by the Socialist Party, Mr. Álvarez, to be a candidate for the Senate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u348	No, there's no debate in the allusions. Thank you. That's it. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece to rectify the chronification of the working precariousness, temporality and wage gap of women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u349	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u350	Good afternoon, Counselor. At the beginning of March 8th, at the BNG we think we need to take stock of the working situation of women in Galicia. When analyzing data, all alarms are skipped: inequality is perpetuated and even accentuated. The pay gap is still a constant: twenty-three percent, according to the survey of the INE's salary structure. According to this survey, the Italian workers charge, on average, EUR 5,479 less than men and earn EUR 1,837 less, on average, than women in the state. Women concentrate on less-income jobs: thirty-seven percent does not reach the minimum interprofessional wage and 20.5 percent — around 100,000 — does not reach half, i.e., wages of less than four hundred euros. These levels of employment exceed men, but as wages rise, women are disappearing from jobs, up to a level where, for example, wages that receive more than ten times the minimum inter-professional wage are only seventeen percent of women at that level, compared to eighty-three percent of men. The pay gap worsens when they reach retirement age and the difference increases in a very important way: they charge about thirty-six percent less than men for having much lower contribution bases and times. A Greek pensioner enters, on average, 300, 50 and 7 euros a month less, about five thousand euros a year less. According to the labour market of 2018, women's labour market is part-time — almost twenty-two percent — not by their own choice, but because it is the only type of job offered to them, and of temporality — 27.5 percent —: almost 50 percent of women's contracts were less than one month, Counsellor, less than one month! — or 48.6 percent —. And to this fact of the highest part-time and rotational recruitment we have to add that the women's activity rate is 8.4 points below that of men. In Galicia there is a destruction of employment in all sectors — except in services — and the dramatic fact is that this destruction of employment is mainly among young people. Eighty-five percent of women work in the service sector — it's women's employment rate — especially older than forty-five years. And all this data that results? Poverty results in poor women, a labour market for poor women: twenty-two percent of women live below the poverty line. That's why, Counsellor, what we ask you is what the Government of Greece is doing, what are the actions it is performing to rectify this situation of chronication of precariousness and temporality and the wage gap of the women of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u351	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, you started your speech saying you were going to take a swing. I regret — and I have to move it — that you haven't made any kind of balance, and I think you should adjust to reality, especially if we really want to make a balance at this time on the employment situation of women. And that job situation you know perfectly well that has changed a lot about years ago, if you really want to do it is a balance. I repeat to you the data I transferred this morning: today in Galicia there are four hundred and seventy-nine thousand women affiliated with Social Security, which is the highest number of women who are affiliated with Social Security and who represent — these four hundred and seventy-nine thousand women — almost half the total. In fact, if you want to balance, you'll know there's 14,930 women working more than in 2009. Today in Galicia, besides, there are more women with an indefinite contract, so seven out of ten have stability in their jobs, and today in Galicia nearly eight out of ten women work full-time. Six out of ten women also have an indefinite full-time contract, exceeding Spain in almost half-point, as well as the rest of the labour market indicators. So, Your Honor, the only chronification is that of the BNG speech, which remains invariable and does not want to assume that, indeed, there is an improvement in the situation of the women's labour market. We have many things left to improve, undoubtedly -- I said this morning -- but what is true is that the effort of Greek society -- of the whole of Greek society -- is enabling us to improve in terms of equality, and that is a reality. One of them, indeed, of the issues in which we have to improve, is in pay equality, a pay equality that is conditioned, as you know, by factors such as career interruptions or wage supplements, which in practice are not neutral in relation to gender, but also knows that Galicia is the second community with the second largest increase in female wages in the period 2008-2016. Finally, we continue to work and, within the Government, we are pushing important measures to facilitate women's integration into the labour market, to facilitate their professional development and also to work for responsibility and equality with businesses themselves. Thirty-five thousand beneficiaries of aid and sixty-one thousand services provided by the administration, with an investment of one hundred and forty-nine million euros in different programmes, which are enabling us to make an effective improvement of the situation of women in the labour market. We have to keep improving, we have to keep moving forward, and what we would like is that you have transferred proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u353	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u354	If you want to balance, you can't balance a static situation that doesn't allow a practical reading of government initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u356	Look, Mr. Conde, we're quite full of speeches and not resources. [[Applause]] See: the data IGE, EPA, the socio-laboral report by the IGC and the INE salary structure survey are data for those who have made reference; if you like, I am going to fix them. You are responsible for the Government's labour and economic policies. And, of the ten years — which leads this Government of the People's Party — to implement budgets, to cease applying many more and the roadmap of the economic policy of the People's Party, the data are what I'm going to tell you: from the first quarter of 2009 to this 2018, there are in Galicia nine thousand eight hundred women occupied less, two percent less; the women stopped increased by one thousand five hundred from 2009 until 2018, and, in addition, the pay divide in Galicia, Counsellor, has increased almost one thousand euros —992.26 — that is, 22.1 percent, when in the Spanish state only increased by two hundred ninety-four euros, that is, 5.3 percent. I mean, the static reality you say is that there are, under the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, fewer women occupied, more unemployed and more paid dividers in Galicia and, in addition, more about the state. That's Galician reality with the policies of the People's Party. That's reality in Galicia with the policies of the People's Party. [[Applause]] We're a bit full of empty speeches and they don't apply any kind of policy. So, what I do is I propose to promote, monitor and implement the approved legislation, because there are laws, but what they don't do is put them into practice. It promotes and monitors compliance with labour equality legislation; it works cross-sectionally for the elimination of discrimination; it punishes, it costs to discriminate against women, not free of charge, Counsellor, and from the role to the facts, from the attitude of passivity to a proactive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u357	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u358	What I ask you today is that it is implied that there is no further violation of the labour rights of women recognized in the law, that it takes a little while to pass from the rights recognized in the paper to practice, Counsellor. Fewer speeches and a little more action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u359	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u360	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Prado, you talk to me about economic policy; we already see the economic policy of the Galego Nationalist Block, which aims to close Meirama and, therefore, there is no opportunity for the labour market. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I, rather than speeches, Mrs. Prado, what I'm transferring to you is data, and that data is from EPA, they are from Social Security, they're from registered unemployment. And the reality, even if you don't want to recognize it, is that today there are more women affiliated with Social Security than ever before, that today we have more women with an indefinite contract than ever and that today there are fewer women looking for a job. That's the reality of the labour market in Galicia, although you follow the chronification of your discourse on equality and, unfortunately, we cannot evolve. They're wrong to make this matter a matter of good and bad, which is what they usually do, because I understand that you're looking for employment to be synonymous with equality, but for that, you should bring proposals and add to reality. Leave the confrontation, move to dialogue, and surely we will be able to work together for an equal Galician government, which is what this government is doing. And she's doing it by giving women more measures to reconcile with men. You should review the plan for reconciliation and co-responsibility of this government, you should review the data from public children's school squares, which we have more than ever in Galicia. We're bringing services for reconciliation to rural and labor borders, we have more maternity benefits and more help for reconciliation. These are realities of government action in compliance with the Equality Law, which we are applying and which I see you, unfortunately, do not know. Women, Your Honor, also have more support to access a job and develop their professional career. I'm sorry that you don't know this kind of initiative, nor does the Women's Work Programme. I'm also sorry that you don't recognize that women in Galicia today have more protection of rights and occupational risks, especially in pregnancy and breastfeeding. We're doing this with visits and campaigns from the Galego Social Security Institute — which I see you don't know — and also through the work of the Labour Inspectorate, with nearly four thousand performances in recent years directly related to equality between women and men and one hundred and eighteen acts of infringement. Women in Galicia, Mrs. Prado, also have more support to end the wage gap, because we're going to develop, and we're working on social dialogue, a new boost program to promote that wage equality. Therefore, Mrs Prado, I can accept that for you these measures are insufficient, I can accept it, I can even accept the demand for greater effort by this administration, but what I cannot accept is that you ignore the fact so far by the Government and also by the economic and social agents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u361	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u362	And what I regret is that you remain anchored in the past and, unfortunately, there are no proposals from your group to promote equality between men and women. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation by the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training of the Galician Strategy of Coexistence-Educonvives 2015-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u364	To put the question, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u365	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. One of the most complex problems in human relations or in different areas of human relations is the problem of coexistence. It serves as an example, and I think we could all understand as an example, the headlines we see one day yes and another also about the difficulties of living together in certain spaces of political confluence. Well, our educational system, as well as an area of social relations and as one of the key areas of social relations for an advanced society, requires measures to ensure proper coexistence. In this sense, counseling is underway with the Swedish School-Convives Strategy 2015-2020 Educonves, whose objective is to provide teachers, mothers, parents and management teams, essentially with a series of resources that enable them to deepen the improvement of school-Convives from an integral and inclusive perspective. In this line, we seek to provide guidance to act quickly and effectively in the face of possible problematic situations for coexistence, as well as prevention through health training, digital identity and so on. In short, a strategy that, as I said before, allows the patterns of coexistence within a modern, effective and inclusive educational system. In that sense, our question is to tell us what is the assessment they make from the Government of the current situation and the implementation of the Strategy of Coexistence-Educonvives 2015-2020. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Mr. Fernández Gil, in fact, the Galelic Strategy of School Coexistence 2015-2020 Educonves serves as a guide and help to the members of the educational community, especially the student, to develop social competences and civic competences. And, as I've already shown in this chamber, it is worth putting in value what it meant for the teaching of Greek to promote the existence of living plans in each center. The Educonves Strategy is called upon to deepen actions that enable, firstly, training for conflict prevention for all students, as well as for families, teachers and management teams; the dissemination of successful experiences and good practice; the homogenization of documents and the establishment of standard models to speed up conflict management; the empowerment of conciliation and mediation as means of conflict resolution; and the coordination of actions with other entities and with other institutions that work to improve coexistence. To further progress in these and other issues, it is essential to have a broad diagnosis of the situation in our centers. As you know, the Education Council has already launched the second online macro questionnaire on co-existence in the classroom, which has been available to the entire educational community since last week. The goal is to be able to update the data obtained in the first edition of this questionnaire, prepared at the end of 2015, which at the time served to obtain for the first time an X-ray of the schools in Galicia. This macro-questionary is addressed to the school community as a whole, a collective of some 55,000 people, including students from the fifth primary school, teachers, families and non-teachers. It covers all educational stages and is covered by an online specific computer application. It is the directors and directors of the centres themselves who are responsible for completely generating the access keys for all members of their educational community, thus ensuring the anonymity of the participants. Thus, from those access keys, recipients can access the questionnaire through any electronic device. I would like to stress that this is a totally private process, which fully respects privacy — it is anonymous — in order to achieve the most objective results possible, since the content of the questions will be known by each of the participants in the process at the same time they decide to cover the questionnaire. The more people respond to this questionnaire, the more information we will have to know the way forward to further progress in good co-operation in our classrooms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u368	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Gil's word is on his back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u369	Thank you very much, President. Well, Counsellor, I would like to thank you, first of all, for your answer, and to reinforce the idea that you have expressed here that to take the appropriate measures for any political or administrative action that you want to take from a government, it is essential to make a serious and appropriate diagnosis. So, in that sense, it will allow me also to take advantage of the platform given by Parliament in Galicia to encourage citizenship and, in particular, the educational community, which is actively involved in that macro-questionary that you have just referred to us to, precisely, to contribute to having a serious diagnosis of the relationships of coexistence in different educational centres, a diagnosis that will subsequently enable us to take the appropriate measures to improve coexistence in each of the educational centres. And in this sense, as you pointed out earlier, we are already in the second macro-questionary that is done in the wake of this Strategy of coexistence-Educonves; the previous one — as it has been said — has been done in 2015, and we assume that, with its own learning from the logical experience that it has already done a questionnaire before, changes would be implemented to make more adjusted diagnoses in the macro-questionary that is currently being transferred to the educational community. So, finally, to finish, we would like to know what these changes are or the most remarkable changes within this macro-questionary for the diagnosis of the reality of coexistence in the education system, and also if we could give some more specific detail in relation to the specific aspects of the macroeconomic survey. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u371	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr. Fernández Gil, we believe it is important to test the pulse of cohabitation in the Welsh classes, and it seems appropriate to do so continuously in time to know its evolution. As I have explained, the ultimate objective is, from the information collected, to design specific measures for school coexistence that are as appropriate as possible to existing reality; so we have done so taking into account the first experience. To maintain its reliability, its validity and its internal consistency, in this second macro-questionary, the bulk of the questions of the first edition, which are designed according to the collective to which they are addressed. But one more step has been taken, and some changes are also introduced, such as the first one: the elimination of initial items that did not have an impact on the study and the extension of questions about aspects that since the last survey have been shown as a key to education. All questions seek to obtain information that helps centers to a more comprehensive diagnosis that allows better adaptation of their own living plans. In total there are seven different types of questionnaires, depending on the collective to which it is addressed, with less than twenty simple and direct questions per document to facilitate your response, so the estimated time to cover it is about ten minutes. All people who are part of the educational community in Galicia can provide useful information, relevant information about the reality they perceive, which lives in educational centers and at different levels. As with the previous questionnaire, after the completion of the process, each school will receive its results properly organized. And from them, you have to analyze your particular case and implement your own living plan adapted to your situation. In addition, the board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of school coexistence in Galicia that serves to guide decision-making from solid evidence. We have to have a real X-ray of school coexistence in Galicia and the goal is to be able to have data and information on equality, on inclusion, on behaviours of harassment and cyber-acoustic school... ultimately on the educational system. Anime — as you said — the entire educational community to which you participate and to which you answer questions, because they will be useful to know the reality of students, teachers, families and non-teachers. All and all, each and every one of us can bring our vision — in this case, their vision — about what they understand in the Greek classrooms. Among all of us, we can continue to move forward towards that educational excellence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u372	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn to the cumulative debate on questions 44402 and 44504. They shall be collected for the purposes of discussion of compliance with Article 159 of the Regulation. Question from Da Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members from the G.P. of In Marea, on the evaluation made by the Galician Board of Directors regarding the affective-sexual education that is receiving the young people of Galicia Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment made by the Government of the situation of affectivity and sexual education in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u373	To put the question, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u374	Thank you, President. Nothing, the first surprise is precisely who will answer this question, which gives us good measure of the situation of sexual education in this country. He doesn't care about the Teaching Council, so he doesn't answer the question. [[Applause]] Unesco's 2018 education and sexuality report offers a new definition of integral education in sexuality as a school, educational process, "to teach and learn about the cognitive, emotional, physical and social aspects of sexuality." Its objective is to "preparate children, children and youth (...) to achieve their health, well-being and dignity; to develop respectful social and sexual relationships; to consider how their choices affect their own well-being and that of others, and to understand what their rights are throughout life and to ensure that they are protected." Moreover, integral education in sexuality that proposes UNESCO is characterized by being "scientificly accurate", that is, based on evidence; gradual, appropriate to all ages of girls and boys, favourable to the satisfaction of human rights and based on gender equality. That's why we feel like a good starting point for starting to rethink the sexual education that young people receive in Galicia. According to the professionals of the Galega Society of Sexology, affective-sexual education has to start at the age of three and reach university, something that is not happening in our community; on the contrary: this education is practically separated from the classes, except in workshops or external workshops that voluntarily demand educational centers in Galicia. Besides the plans Project and Love+, can you tell us, Counsellor, how many educational centers are part of this program? Because you know that this is the only sex education directly dependent on the Teaching Council — which was about what we wanted to ask —. Please inform us. I've already told you that for us there are very few. That is to say, today in this country, we do not have a specific sexual education plan for regular education, but it depends on the volunteerism of schools and the ability to attract external resources. All of this in a frame where girls and children have ever more and easier access to sexual content on the Internet that perpetuates a wrong and macho image of gender roles and sex relations. Let me comment on some of the facts that we think deserve attention. More than 80 percent of young Greek girls and girls between the ages of thirteen and eighteen think they're either well-informed or very well-informed about sexuality; however, about nine percent of them and they admit not to use contraceptive methods. Twenty-one percent of the girls -- that is, part five -- recognize having gone to the pill the day after or another emergency contraceptive. 3.6% of adolescents and adolescents between 13 and 18 years of age claim that they either got pregnant or caused pregnancy. And another fact: one in four women will suffer sexual abuse in their lives. It's data before those who need to act and rethink the poor affective-sexual training girls receive in Galicia to adopt the indications spread by UNESCO. That's why we ask: what evaluation does the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u375	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u376	...of the affective-sexual education received by the young people of Greece?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u377	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. To put your question, you have the floor in this case, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u378	Thank you, President, good afternoon. And good afternoon to the advisor, too. Kate Millett said that "staff is political"; this is one of the most powerful ideas that put the feminist movement on the table, an idea that denounces how in the private sphere power relationships are developed that support the structures of domination of the public domain. The feminist movement has thus highlighted that masculine violence, discrimination and inequality are a social and not an individual issue. Within this private area is sexuality, an activity inherent to human beings, fundamental to our personal development, but which remains hidden and, most often, linked exclusively to risk prevention and reproduction. This taboo that survives in families and in society as a whole reinforces and reproduces prejudices, roles and gender stereotypes, especially among younger age groups. In 2013, the special rapporteur on the right to education of the United Nations declared the right to sexual education as a human right and warned, in addition, that we are all sexually informed by action or by default. The decision not to provide sexual education from the public — especially, although not only from schools — is to opt for a hidden curriculum that leaves children and adolescents to their luck as to the type of knowledge and messages they receive. The absence of comprehensive sexual education in educational centres converts pornography virtually into a single information station, and gives this industry immense power in the setting of roles and in the construction of references and visions of a sexuality that, in addition to unrealities, are immensely violent, macho and patriarchal. We lived in the 21st century, in the year 2019. Access to pornographic content today is not a smuggling task, anyone can access it by just one click, and most of the time we don't even need to search. Galicia has full competence in the field of education, but despite progress, education is only approached jointly, sporadicly, from a biological and preventive perspective, without a comprehensive approach, as internationally recommended by the United Nations. Since the BNG, in addition to asking you about the assessment that they make of the current situation, what we are making to you are two proposals to the Galician Union — one also has a direct bearing on the area that you represent —: the first is to recover and push the centers I love you with the original project with which they were created and designed, like a true network of affective-sexual counselling for youth, with a stable programming and sufficient economic and human resources, and the second is to develop a Greek plan of affective-sexual education that goes far beyond risk prevention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u379	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u380	...and that also covers that emotional and emotional part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u381	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u382	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Rodil and Mr Chao, thank you very much for your interesting reflections and for putting the focus on a matter that — I agree with you — is fundamental for young people and girls: affective-sexual education. I'd like to recall today an African proverb that says, "A child needs an entire tribe to be brought up." With this, I am not referring to the proposal that an independent Catalan Member should have children as a group, but to the reality that education is not limited to educational centres, but that we also learn from our equals, our families and the media. It is the responsibility of the Educational Administration to put in place a coordinated training strategy of quality and appropriate to the challenges of the present, as is being done by the Education Council, but we also have a collective responsibility to complement the training of those and the younger ones through other channels. In this line, I would like to highlight the work that staff of the Cherote+ program, which depends on the Social Policy Council, which helps to clarify the worries of the young woman and the young man in Greece. Psychologists, social workers, social educators and nurses of this program approach answers to areas as necessary as body image and self-esteem, consumption and addictions, coexistence between equal, Internet security or affectivity and sexuality. Each year, the Cherote+ attends more than 6,000 direct consultations, reaches some sixteen thousand young and young people through its activities, provides training in more than 200 educational centres both through the Project Plan and through its various workshops and takes its talks to twenty-four municipalities and twenty-eight entities. These are the figures that best portray the program, necessary and useful to improve the affective-sexual education of young people in Galicia. So today I would like to thank Mrs Rodil for her good words about Cherote+ and move my firm commitment that we will continue to ensure the functioning of this counselling network to our young people in Greece. Cherote+ is not the only initiative the Galician Union has in relation to affective-sexual education. The Education Council has also launched in recent years two free configuration materials for the first and second of the ESO and the first of the Bachelor's degree: Gender Equality, which is given in forty-three centers, and Co-education for the twenty-first century, which has been offered in three other centers of our autonomous community. The theme of equality was also developed through program contracts in two hundred and sixty-eight centres in this course and five hundred teachers were trained in the field of equality throughout the legislation. On the other hand, the action plan for equality is under way in Galicia's educational centres. But, as in most places, the situation of affective-sexual education in Galicia is not yet the ideal one, and we have a lot of ground to continue to improve, so today I invite you to transfer to your proposals so that the Social Policy Council, through the Cherote+ program, and the Education Council, through the curriculum of compulsory education, can continue to improve. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u383	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Chao Pérez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u384	Look, Counsellor: at least your answer should include a word: insufficient, and a number: twenty-one, which was what we were asking you about, because that's the number of educational establishments where the Sexual Education Project Plan applies, only twenty-one. You value that that figure to you for the whole of the Greek educational centers, it's clear to us that it's insufficient. It cannot be hidden: the sexual education that children and children receive in Galicia at educational centres is not enough, and this is a problem with what needs to be done. Because the more sex education girls and boys get, the less risks they run and more response capacity they have. In fact, according to the World Health Organization, in countries with sexual education regulated sexual initiation is later, there are fewer unwanted pregnancies and fewer sexually transmitted diseases; that is, it improves their lives. That's why we'd like you to be here as the teacher's advisor, to take note. Whether we want it or not, children will have access to information about sexuality, especially through the Internet: on websites, through youtubers or directly through porn. And there they're receiving information that's not only true, it's not equal. Working for society in equality we need also means that girls and children learn about identity and sexual diversity, about consent, about contraceptives, about health and about free and equal affective-sexual relationships in classes, and here the Educational Administration has to take a step forward. It can be done: we have clear competences and examples like the Skolae Programme in Navarra, which the People's Party, of course, opposes. Not only that, but they call it "indecency"; indecency to the president of the People's Party when he talks about our rights. The question is clear: will they do anything to improve affective-sexual education in Galicia? Seeing the absence of the counselor in this matter, we understand that it is not. Look, Counselor, you can tell your partner: this, precisely, will be one of the reasons that takes thousands of women off strike next March 8, because the March 8 strike will also be a student strike demanding affective-sexual education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u385	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u386	Feminism has always been clear: sexual education to decide. We want women trained to decide, we have free, responsible and happy girls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u387	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. He's got the turn for Mrs. Rodil Fernández's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u388	Thank you, President. I think we have just seen with your answer one of the issues that were at the center of the debate during this session, which is the conformism in which the Galician Union is installed. And besides, the figures just come to reaffirm that there's practically nothing going on. You're told that the activities linked to the former centers are being developed in more than 200 educational centers in a country where there are more than a thousand, that there are activities in twenty-four municipalities in a country that is three hundred thirteen or that there is — as has just been pointed out — only twenty-one centres offering this programme Kerote+, which is a program that is unique and exclusively offered to ESO's third-party students and basic vocational training, i.e., from fourteen and fifteen years old. The workshops that offer, in addition, the Kerote+ centers as an activity in parallel to their formation, to their academic curriculum, are only 100 hours. What we want, and that's why we insist on our proposals, is, first, to recover the original project from these centres, dearote, which had much more to do in their service portfolio than simply collect complaints, questions or concerns or worries that youth could move through a kind of care or consulting. We want to propose to you is to recover the ambitious project with economic resources and human resources so that these centers I love you can make a complete programming with that comprehensive perspective, which for BNG is absolutely fundamental. Because -- we insist very much on this -- that administrations do leave functions doesn't mean that the whole of society, especially the younger age fringes, doesn't receive information on sexuality, and what we're giving it is a power to a pornographic industry that doesn't correspond to it and that is, in addition, very harmful to the whole population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u389	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u390	That's why we insist on recovering this original project from the centers I love you and, most importantly, design, how we bring this camera as a proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u392	...incentive from the BNG, that program and that galley plan of affective-sexual education for the set of educational stages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u393	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u394	...and the schools in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u395	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, she has the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u396	Thank you, President. Thank you very much once again to Mrs. Rodil and Mrs Chao for their approach. As the UN warns, the girl girl receives sexual information both by action and by default, so it is necessary to strengthen an educational offer that enables the young woman to protect herself from the risks of misunderstood sexuality, and not reproduce roles and attitudes that we want to banish from Galicia of the future. I've really tried to solve their doubts as far as I'm concerned, and, as I said before, while I'm a social policy advisor, I'll always trust the talented and qualified staff in charge of Kerote+. We will continue to bet on resolving doubts about matters that concern younger people and take their workshops to more educational centers, more entities and more municipalities. With regard to the constructive comments and criticisms that have moved me about the inclusion of affective-sexual education in the school curriculum, I assure you that I have noted with great interest all that they have said to me and that I will give all this to my fellow Government, the Education Counsellor, so that his department evaluates as our schools and our institutes can continue to strengthen their formative proposal and respond to the challenges of the present and the challenges of the future. I really trust you, ladies and gentlemen, that we can reach agreements, because speaking if you understand people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u397	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the assessment made by the Government of the primary care situation in the Ludense Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u398	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u399	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Welcome back, Mr. Almuña. Today it would be strange again that this question is not formulated by our health spokesman, but the problems that are suffering from our primary care are a structural problem for our entire autonomous community and therefore all Members of this group could denounce the abandonment of primary care in our communities. [[Applause]] In the light marine region, we are experiencing the progressive deterioration of the primary care capacity, which, despite the efforts of the staff who are manifesting themselves week after week together with the neighbours and neighbours, despite this effort, is losing quality due to the persistent cuts that have been applied since the autonomous government. And I'm going to give you a few examples: As far as staff are concerned, due to the harsh working conditions offered to professionals and staff cuts, there have been powerful neighbouring protests by the mangrove and neglect of the Health Council to the municipalities of Barreiros, Lourenzá and Mondoñedo, where the rights of the children and children of these municipalities have not been guaranteed to be cared for by a pediatrician, even failing to comply with the schedule of vaccines for the non-covery of this professional. The pediatrician of Foz is found in a short day, causing real collapses, not only for the children and children of Foz, but also for those of the municipalities of Alfoz and Valadouro. One pediatrician attends about 2,000 children and girls from the municipalities of Viveiro, the Viceroy and Ourol. Nor are they covering the PAC de Viveiro casualties and not their health center, having to wait more than ten days for a consultation. Besides, in this health center there are now four fewer doctors, including a pediatrician. And besides, the building of this center has important structural problems, and it's necessary to make arrangements so that we can maintain the right conditions. In Pontenova, Sergas did not cover the medical square that was vacant in April 2018, nor did it cover the PSX vacancy. The lack of professionals in the Navy not only affects doctors, but they're not covering nursing vacancies, nor nursing assistants or PSX. At the Burela Health Center, where six nurses work, such as these professionals are not replaced when they find themselves on vacations, temporary incapacity or free designation permits, it happens that, during vacations, the health center only has three nurses. In the Burela CAP, if doctors do have two consultations, the nursing staff only has one, and it is necessary to seek a new placement at the CAP or to extend existing facilities. That is why this group raises the following question: how does the Greek Government value primary care in the Navy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u400	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. The health advisor, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, I don't miss anything from here anymore; even municipal elections don't miss anything at all. It's funny to tell us that there are cuts in the Navy district just as the biggest health investment in that area has been taking place for many years. I remind you of the increase in the center of the comarcal hospital in thirty-three percent, with an investment of about twelve million. This is Phase One, and now Phase Two will come. In Galicia we believe and bet on a model of pediatric care specialized in primary health care centers. We are one of the communities with a higher rate of pediatric coverage: almost 90 percent of Pediatric squares are occupied in primary care by specialists. In other autonomous communities, such as the Balearic Islands, it is fifty percent, and the children are cared for by the optional family, which, by the way, is also formed to attend them; in Castela-A Mancha, also the autonomous community not governed by the People's Party, is around fifty-eight percent, and in Madrid, Extremadura, Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia and Canary Islands turn seventy percent. Therefore, Galicia continues with high coverage of pediatricians in primary care. Since the Galego de Saúde Service we have taken measures that allow the deficit of professionals to be overcome, such as the extension of retirement age — at this time, taking it Extreme –, the professional career — also Extreme is beginning this process —, the permanent open competition, the provision of nursing squares specialist in pediatrics... As far as pediatric care is concerned in the marine region, I have to tell you this: in Barreiros, Lourenzá and Mondoñedo, with a total of seven hundred thirty-one children — I remember Galicia is from the autonomous communities that less children per pediatrician have: nine hundred children, and that is a good ratio — there is a pediatrician, like in recent years. When this pediatrician was discharged, most of the time was replaced by different professionals in the Navy, and when urgent care could not be covered, it was covered by family doctors — as I said — who have a good preparation, but who, of course, is not, for our community, the first option, but the first option will always be the pediatrician. The timely incidences that were presented these days were derived from Ribadeo Pediatric Service. Of course, no vaccination calendar is required, none is required. The pediatrician of Foz, with a thousand children enrolled, has a reduction in the daily schedule — logically, for the optional — that does not affect the daily schedule. In Viveiro there are two Paediatric squares. Since the last public job offer transfer contest the incumbent professional has asked for a surplus — it is a subject that can do perfectly — and, from now on, a professional is being sought for the coverage of this square; in the absence of pediatricians, we have obtained children or family doctors with experience in pediatrics. In primary care of Viveiro we have also increased a square.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u402	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u403	In addition, we have already programmed the increase of family medicine squares in the services of Viveiro and Burela, vacant new creation squares to be covered as of March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u404	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. For the replica round, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u405	Thank you, President. Counsellor, it's not a matter of municipal elections, it's a case more than a reflection of PP's incompetence in the management of public health. [[Applause]] On the other hand, what increase are you talking about at the Marine Hospital? To change the consultations of the different specialties to another building? Or a new parking lot? Because professional increase, zero. Counsellor, every day we continue to hear new complaints from professionals and groups affected by the malfunction of primary care by the board you are conducting. We knew yesterday, moreover, that Sergas did not replace the pediatrician of the Youth Health Center, and these children and girls must move to Burela. Mr. Almuña, do you not believe that the professionals, both individually and through the collectives that represent them, as well as the trade unions, political parties, local administrations, patient associations and many groups affected by health care, which are virtually all the neighbors and the neighbors of the Navy are shining, have more than reasons to manifest themselves? By the way, local administrations also governed by the People's Party, as happened to the counties of Barriers and Mondoñedo, who asked him on more than one occasion to cover the vacancy in Pediatrics. This group makes it clear that for the Government of the People's Party we are only numbers and not people with health problems, because it only talks about ratios without taking into account other parameters, such as the extension of the territory or whether it is a rural or urban territory, as well as the aging of the territory. His proposals, which he also introduced to the professionals, for the new model of primary care, can be described in two words: a true intent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u406	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u407	Mr. President. It's true that it's nothing of an election, which is why he's already talking about the People's Party, and it seems he's going to try to get some vote for the Navy out of Parliament. Look: really, sad is to say that in every effort that is made since the Galician Union the opposition is never reflected, but I am commenting on all the measures taken by the governments of the People's Party in Galicia, because the socialist governments in Extremes, in Castile-A Mancha and in Balearics—we don't say Andalusia because at this moment there is a change—of course, they go far behind what Galicia is going on. And disqualifying a new model that is being made from Galicia along with the Basque Country -- the only ones that are taking action -- when it's not a proposal from the Government, government politicians, but from the professionals who worked for two months, it seems to me to be a total lack of consideration for professionals. In the primary care of Viveiro — I would like to finish that topic — we just increased a square, as I told them earlier. In addition, we programmed the increase of family doctors' squares in the services of Viveiro and Burela, vacant new creation squares, to be covered from the month of March, to increase the number of volunteers in Viveiro in the afternoon and to begin the opening of the Burela Health Center also in the afternoon. They are two long-term and totally stable contracts. We continue to work to define and adopt measures that will enable us to solve the lack of professionals we have of Pediatrics and family doctors. As I say, it's not a Greek problem, it's a national problem, and even at European level it's also affecting. All the Paediatric squares in Galicia are consolidated, and we intend to cover them. We continue to seek solutions through more accreditation and more pediatricians in training. For that we need the ministry — which is not a government of the PP, it is a government of the Socialist Party —; we have been working since August, they have the request for accreditations of six more formation squares and, today, very good words, but we don't have that possibility on the table. A new contract of continuity, a stable contract that we are developing together — as I said — with the Basque Country; concentration in vacation periods in accordance with and according to the Galician Pediatric Society. As for the Livestock CAP: when an IT situation or vacation occurs, it is always covered or even reinforced. In Pontenova, the number of cards is 1,751, with which, we understand that with two optionals, there is a ratio of 80-50 cards, well below international and Greek cannons. The Burela CAP is next to the hospital's emergencies, sharing facilities and allowing the professionals of this CAP to have access to diagnostic tests of radiology and laboratory as well as the rest of the hospital. Ultimately, the Marine de Lugo primary care has an adequate assistance and dimensioning for the demand that generates this population. We are aware of the difficulties we have to cover all the incidences that occur, both in family doctors and in pediatricians, just like the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u408	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u409	But an effort is being made to cover all these situations, either by hiring staff, either by drafting schedules or by redesigning them to assume the assistance demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. Almuña. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and seven other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the guarantee of women's sexual and reproductive rights
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u411	To put the question, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u412	Thank you, President. I have to start by reminding them of their government and Feijóo, in particular, that women do not ask permission, we are demanding rights. And the act they do again this March 8 again shows that they don't understand anything at all. Today we've come to ask you whether you're going to guarantee once and for all our sexual and reproductive rights, because for now, of course, they're not respecting them. In fact, we've been seeing for many years how the Galician Union puts multiple obstacles to the exercise of our rights. By giving you some examples: systematic drifts to private health to abort, given cases, sometimes — as you know — with extreme seriousness to women's health, having to leave even outside Galicia; progressive dismantling of our public health; they are leaving to die as important resources as are the FOCs in our country with their cutting policies; we have the lowest ratio of the Spanish host state as a whole; they also have an absolute disillusionment with affective-sexual education — it was the subject of debate in this whole—; they subsidize year after year anti-abortist organizations like Redmadre, and they have published on the Sergas page a brochure on contraception with information — as you know — very serious so far there is very little. [[Applause]] And so, as I said, we could go on, because the examples, unfortunately, are many. In addition, we have recently attended with concern the statements that Mr. Married makes every week about our bodies and our rights, and I'm going to tell him two examples: "If we want to fund pensions, we must think about how to have more children, not abortion." "Married explains to women what pregnancy consists of: "it's good that they know what they're carrying in"; statements that are intolerable and that they're Machists, and we want them to stand here: are these statements? Are they defending women's rights, or are they really on the other side? Because all the signs demonstrate that they do not defend us, because, in addition to these statements, that, as I say, they are intolerable and macho, we do not forget that it was the People's Party that intended to bring forward a reactionary counter-reform that intended to limit our right to abort. And the only reason why this reform didn't go forward — as I say — was reactionary and macho — was women's strength; it wasn't at all because of the decisions you made as a Government. So the question is very clear: what are you going to do? Are they still standing in front of the women? Will you continue with this reactionary agenda which seems to have accelerated Mr. Casado in recent times? Will they once and for all defend our sexual and reproductive rights or, on the contrary, will they continue to subsidize anti-abortist networks and continue to implement their masculine and retrograde ideology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u413	Thank you very much. The Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuña, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Since the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, we have complied with the regulations and we have worked to improve women's health care and to ensure their rights in this area. In relation to sexual health, it is necessary to say that health centres constitute the health promotion space that guarantees access to information about contraceptive methods in the closest environment of citizenship and count on the necessary professional specialists. As far as contraception is concerned, in cases where the procedure to establish the chosen method is not available at primary care level, the person will be treated in other care devices, in family counselling centres or in hospitals. The Galego Health Service has a center of forty-five primary care midwives, and we also have thirteen COFs — four in the province of Coruña, three in Lugo, four in Ourense and two in Pontevedra — and fourteen hospitals, emergencies and Xynecology consultations. We carry out training activities aimed at our professionals to improve counselling in contraception, as well as activities of the Project Plan directed at teachers. As far as reproductive health is concerned, we have technical and assistance guides and integrated protocols and care processes on pre-conceptional consultation and normal pregnancy; a health intervention procedure in the case of gender-based violence, in which a specific section will be created for child abuse and obstetric abuse, and an information guide for women in situations of gender-based violence. We're still working to get women to attend the puerperal consultation that provides primary care attendants after the birth of their son or daughter. Connect 72 facilitates the contact of the primary care nurse with the woman, and this professional support is especially important in the case of women at risk of social exclusion or postpartum depression. We have pre- and postnatal group health education courses given by primary care mothers: infant massage, breastfeeding, recovery of pelvian soil muscle... We also work in promoting, protecting and assisting breast-feeding: we have created two human milk banks — in the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro and in the CHUS of Santiago — to ensure the safe supply of breast milk, easy to provide for premature feeding. And we also have training and health education for the care of menopause women. Prevention must also be a very important part, and that's why we have the early detection program for early breast cancer. So, Your Honor, I have to tell you that my answer is: yes, women's sexual and reproductive rights are guaranteed, because we comply with the law and work in different ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u415	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u416	We have to tell him it's a totally disappointing answer. It's a lie they're respecting rights. How can you speak with so much cynicism? For giving some examples. He talked a lot about contraception: they're dismantling the FOCs, and — and I've already told him — they had, until April 2018, a booklet with wrong information — which you know perfectly well — with contraceptive methods that are not safe — and there they appeared — like the march back. So, I think they were quite late in the field of contraception, and their political bet was to withdraw that leaflet, but nothing else. Today there's really no bet to report. As mentioned in the previous question of affective-sexual education, you are against her and they refuse to implement it. [[Murmurs.]] She's talking about the role of the mistress, who, too, how much cynicism, she's talking about the role of the mistress! We agree, of course, that the role of the midwives is fundamental, but we have the lowest ratio of the whole Spanish state. How can you come here to defend the role of the midwives when they are, in addition, precarious these professionals? You know it perfectly well. So you have to have a lot of tough faces to come here and talk about the situation in which the bosses of this country find themselves and know how few matrons we have in Galicia. After listening to him, we remain unclear what the position of the People's Party is with regard to our right to abort. I ask them to stand up: will they defend marriage statements or not? Because they don't say anything about it at all. And if they don't say it, by consent or silence, they're giving you reason. Do they really agree with these paternalist and macho statements that say that women have to know what we have inside before we abort? Do you think women don't know what we have inside if they're pregnant? I wonder if they're going to maintain the systematic derivation to private health for voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, because that's not what he talked about either. A very high percentage, more than 50 percent of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, are being done in private clinics, and that's because of a health policy, because you use the excuse of conscientious objection, but you know perfectly well that's not the main problem; they've been subsidizing the same clinics as they do then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u417	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u418	And I said again: when there was a sentence that condemned them when this woman lost her womb, we listened to a lot of promises, we heard a lot of statements of intent, and today we are following exactly as we had been ten years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u419	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Government's replica round has the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u420	Faced with insults, I'll give you data. I won't call him cynical, no liar, no brat. [[Applause]] If we talk about the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy of less than fourteen weeks of gestation, we offer the woman the option of choosing between performing in a hospital in the public network of Galicia with full guarantee or, if you prefer, going to one of the clinics that have permission to use in Galicia, clinics that are monitored and controlled by the medical inspection. That's called freedom, that they can choose what they want: go to the public hospital or do it in the private hospital. In cases of up to twenty-two weeks of EVS, the current application of the legal interruption of the management can be carried out in the seven Greek hospitals. As for the legal interruptions of pregnancy from twenty-two weeks after being evaluated by the clinical technical committee appointed for the effects, it focuses on its implementation since mid-2017 at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, which has the precise means. Services are needed that are fully trained and experienced, as is the case with the Xynecology Service at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. Regarding care for pregnant women, we promote preconceptional consultation and inclusion of non-invasive prenatal test within the prenatal screening strategy of anomalies and chromosomes. By the way, Galicia is an autonomous community that has the greatest number of techniques within the prenatal care; we are pioneers and even reference at European level. We also promoted the vaccination of all pregnant women against ferin cough, and we had a protocol of action in the case of pregnant women or they wished for pregnancy and were in endemic places of the Zika virus. Before yesterday, the working group met, which will draw up a guide for the perinatal death process, which aims to unify the performance in public hospitals in the face of this difficult situation for mothers to lose a baby during pregnancy, at birth or shortly after birth. Of course, in Galicia we're working groups with workers, professionals and also patients users who want to participate, and of course we have an important experience to take into account. Currently there is also a specific protocol for the care of pregnant women with addictive disorders. We also have a system of information for health professionals on teratogenic effects of drugs at risk environmental exposures. Consultations on medicines are sent by health professionals to e-mail, where there is very important information about teratogens in the case of pregnancy or during pregnancy, and, after a review of available scientific knowledge, an email report is sent. We are acting with care, but — as I say — we are also using the training of specialists and of citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u421	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. of En Marea, about the increase in the number of social dining users throughout 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u422	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u423	Good afternoon. In January 2019 there were 3,000 social dining users in our country every day; three thousand every day. Most of these centers referred to an increase in the number of users throughout the past year and that the profile was mostly male: men alone, from around the age of 50 and unemployed; but they also began to see an increase in youth unemployment. However, also the Caritas entity, at the end of last year, was talking about 4,000 homeless people in our country — which, as you know, is the second autonomous community with a higher incidence of centrifugalism and the fifth in total number of homeless people — and said that the Board did nothing to improve the situation of these four thousand people. In addition, he indicated that, although mostly male, the profile of these people aged between forty-five and sixty years old, he was detecting an increase in women without a home, this being worrying for several reasons, but also because women have a much more vulnerable situation. Its presence is less visible and they often resort to other means, such as pensions or dwellings of acquaintances, which makes it more complex to determine the extent of female sensophilicism. In fact, psychiatrist Lucia del Río, who presented data on the First Day on the situation of homeless people in Compostela — who organized the Town Hall of Santiago — pointed out that homeless women suffer more mental disorders than men, and more severe. They suffer from unwanted maternity, abortions, sexual assaults and traumas, and they have fewer studies than men — this is in the report that he presented to the Board on symphogarism. And this is also very worrisome: 40 percent of the women living on the street have suffered some kind of aggression and twenty-four percent have been victims of sexual assault, and there are no specific protocols or means. And, speaking of the rate of unemployment: in relation to the increase of those people who use social dining — which is 12 percent in Galicia — we must take into account the differences in our age groups. Where we are interested in this case, in the case of older people aged forty-five, as you progress in age, there is a long-term unemployment chronicle: in 2018 there were 75,076 long-term unemployed, and twenty-one percent were over sixty years old. And it's that, together, people in long-term unemployment over 50 and five years are 40 percent. Long-term unemployment is being chronicled in our country. But besides, if it was traditionally a male unemployment, if we have this long-term male unemployed stereotype, the truth is, since 2014 — especially when the economy grows — increases long-term female unemployment. Therefore, long-term unemployed women over forty-five years of age, speaking in this case of older people — older people within the working age and normal age — are in a worse situation. Why? Because women are also taking care of themselves. There are 90,718 women who look after dependents, most of whom are between forty-five and sixty-four years old — who would be almost forty-eight thousand women — and most of them are about thirty-seventy hours of care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u424	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u425	And it is done only in this data, to affect female impoverishment in working age.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u426	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u427	The fact is that most women stop working because they care for dependents, in front of fewer men who do that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u428	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u429	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vázquez Verao, I would like to begin by completing the question you have registered, because I have missed some data that I consider necessary to get a more true and comprehensive overview. It's true that the rate of unemployment is currently around 12 percent, but it's also true that we're talking about the best data in this decade, and also about the national average. It's true that youth unemployment reaches 21.5 percent, but it's also true that it's 4.8 points lower than in 2009. The same is true of the fact that the number of long-term unemployed has fallen about twenty-five percent in the last year and today three out of four Greek employees are indefinite and nine out of ten work full-time. Even so, it's good news for the Greek households that the number of families with all members of the unemployed is reduced by 18 percent and that the number of families that don't reach the end of the month is at least since there are data. All this data is needed to make a better diagnosis of reality, but of course it doesn't mean, much less, that the situation is idyllic or that everything is already done. A few weeks ago I visited the Economic Kitchen of the Coruña, and there I was able to first-hand check the very important work that social eaters are doing, economically supported by the Government of Greece. In the case of this entity, for example, he told us, where we are legislating, with EUR 300 million from the Galician Union to ensure its functioning and to make several structural reforms. Because, ladies and gentlemen, one of the priority objectives of my department and the whole of the Greek Government is to ensure that all people in our community have their basic needs met and can develop a full life. We do this by improving the effectiveness of Risk for social inclusion and increasing its contents from four hundred and fifty to five hundred and fifty euros, we do it by developing the care plan for homeless people and we do it by fulfilling ninety-six percent of the measures of the Single Social Agenda. As a result of the improvement in the economic situation and the commitment of the entire Greek society, the number of people with severe material shortages has fallen by more than 40 percent in the last year, the risk applications have been reduced by about 10 percent in this legislation and the AROPE poverty risk rate is four points below the national average and is the lowest in the last five years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u430	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u431	The improvement is visible, but still needs to be improved. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u433	Among the data I had to give to contextualize the question was the fact that it increased the number of people who care for dependents in this country: 10,696 men stopped working or studying to do so, compared to 26,548 women who did the same thing. We are in a context where dependence is heavily loaded on women's backs and on the lack of daily resources. He told us yesterday, too, that there are complaints about the lack of resources of the Dependency Act, about women desperate for not being able to care for their families and their dependents and, at the same time, continue their working lives. This is what's happening in our country. As for the unemployment rate, I'd specifically ask you about that worrying fact that there's a chronicle of long-term unemployment among older working people. From the age of fifty-five there are 40 percent of the people in long-term unemployment. This, combined with the fact that we already have one of the lowest pensions in the state and including the fact that women leave their working lives for care-free, will lead them to continue to invest in these low pensions. There's already a impoverishment of older people, and the following age cohorts, seeing these data, are going to continue in the same tonic. That's why I asked you specifically about this context of chronicizing poverty in older people. And also the specific question was about this, because it increased the number of social eaters, and many of them were long-term unemployed. And in relation to this, I was wondering if you don't consider the Board ashamed that 3,000 people every day have to make use of social dining. As for Risga, five years later, they haven't developed the integration and transition to employment. They passed the decree at the board of directors, yes. When will they activate or activate? They do not mention that during these five years Risga penalized employment: in addition to being a benefit of misery, the people who paid this benefit, instead of guiding them towards employment inclusion, they were penalized by employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u434	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u435	It's a benefit of misery, and even Junta persecuted people who shared housing by charging Risga to be able to pay the rent. So less bragging and more performance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u436	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Government's reply, the Social Policy Counsellor, Mrs. García Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, helping those who need it is never embarrassing, but it's a commitment that responds to the social will of this government, which will continue to work so that no Welsh or Galician will stand aside from Galicia's advance. [[Applause]] You're interested in the Risga decree: your publication will be released in the DOG on March 1st. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that economic recovery will not be complete until all people arrive, and from the Galician Union we are aware that there are still things to be done, but official data tell us that the situation of the yellow homes continues to improve progressively. We know and are aware that there are still families who need support from entities and public administrations, but the Galician Union can't do it alone. That is why we will continue to work together with the Association and the Greek Councils within the framework of the agreed plan, which this month we have seen to increase by 200 and 5,000 euros to benefit more twenty-five municipalities, and, as I said, of the Single Social Agenda, which we will begin to update in the coming months through dialogue with local entities and also with social entities. Although the number of Risga applicants is falling — 3.7 percent in the last year — the Union's commitment remains firm, and so today we invest in this income €64.4 million, almost three times as much as it was intended for in 2009. But this match is not the only one that increases, as the funds for the eighteen socio-laboral inclusion offices grow by 3.6%; more than eleven percent; the investment for the social-initiative entities increases by seven consecutive years; and the amount increases by one and two percent for the social-inclusion centres. Are there still people who are still going through it? Unfortunately, yes. How often are there fewer people who are going through it and who are in this situation? Fortunately, too. And I can commit to them the work of the Galician Union so that the benefits of economic recovery will reach all and every member of this society. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Greece is fully committed to improving the situation of all the Greeks and the Greeks, and, as much as they want to disguise the data, economic indicators show that Galicia is moving in the right direction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-27-DSPG104.u438	Thank you very much, Counselor. All the items on the agenda are discussed, we finish the session. Thank you very much.
