ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u1	Good morning. We started the session. She has justified her inattentiveness to Mrs. Paula Vázquez Verao. And we go into the agenda with the first point, legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of competences to the Autonomous Community of Galicia in matters of maritime rescue and the fight against marine pollution
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u2	For the presentation of the bill, you have the word donna Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u3	Thank you very much. Good morning, gentlemen. Since the BNG we have presented this proposal for a law on the transfer of competences in matters of maritime rescue and fight against marine pollution with a very clear argument, and is that the best way to avoid disasters like that of the Prestige is that the Galician coast is managed from Galicia. Tons of chapote and incompetence have shown that, when management takes place from Madrid, 600 kilometers away, an accident can become a major environmental, economic and social catastrophe. So having this competition is a matter of great transcendence to a country where we have 1,600 kilometers of coastline, to a fishing and seafood nation in which we have on our shore one of our identity signs and a basic pillar of our economy. We therefore bring this non-law proposal to defend Galician interests and as the beginning of an institutional offensive to defend more self-government for the Greeks and for the Greeks. Because we're convinced that the greatest political power, the greatest ability to improve the lives of the people of this country. [[Applause]] The current status — we clearly say it — is a narrow suit for those who, like us, aspire to have Galicia recognised as a nation. But we have to move forward, even if it is within the constraints of the current institutional framework, because standing still means going back and losing opportunities. And that's exactly what the government of Feijóo is doing, making us retreat and lose opportunities over a long decade when it didn't demand a single new competition for Galicia. I think this is important, because it is not that the Government has tried to increase self-government and it has not achieved it. It's just that you didn't even ask for the Joint Committee to call for new transfers to our country. And all for a simple reason: by following, by giving up, by subordination of Feijóo to the recentralizing strategy of the People's Party. This is what happens to us when we have a person — who sits in that empty chair who, as always, presides over this plenary session — who acts as President of Galicia — always reminds us that he is the regular representative — and a summary of what he has been sending from Madrid. But, in fact, life sometimes gives us surprises too. And fifteen days ago we had a surprise in this Parliament that makes us present this law with optimism. We believe that we have reason for optimism, after the correction to these ten years of not asking for competences, because just fifteen days ago the PP would surprise us in this House — we have to say—suming on a proposal from the BNG and assuming that we should demand the Government of the State to the maximum competency ceiling to match us with Basquedi and Catalonia. Galicia is neither a third-party nor a fourth-party community. We want to be in the division of honor, as is the Basque Country and Catalonia. We also want to negotiate the transfer of competences, all of them, that's what they proclaimed fifteen days ago from the popular ranks. Well, that initiative, which counted on the votes of the People's Party and also of all the groups of Parliament, has to be developed. And this bill is a first step in an offensive, a Welsh transfer agenda, to increase Galician self-government. Because the more tools we have to be able to decide, the better it will be for the Greeks and the Greeks. We, of course, trust the capacity of this country. And we have lots of samples of what we are capable of doing to the Greeks and to the Greeks when they let us do, when there are no others who mark our future. Clearly, for Galicia to advance, we must have a clear project, we must have self-esteem, we must be and be proud of what we are and rely on our own possibilities. Just the opposite of what Mr Feijóo has been doing all these decades of rent in Monte Pio: ten years with zero competences, not a single, nothing!, an empty set. It has been for all these years an accomplice to a recentralization that harms the Greeks and the Greeks. We have had Galicia for ten years hostage to this recentralizing strategy of the People's Party — which Mr. Feijóo also liked because he obviously shares it — a recentralizing strategy that first justified us with the crisis and which had serious consequences. Because we've been losing political power all these years, because, even if it's little what we've had, the truth is that these ten years have been ten years of invasion of competences with the passiveness of the Greek Government. And we have many examples of the negative consequences that this decentralization has for our country. One case can be the replenishment rates. Of course, in theory we have exclusive competences in health and education, but they don't let us exercise them, because from Madrid they decide how many doctors or teachers we can hire. And they're even limiting the chances of improving public services. Another example was all those laws that imposed the spending ceiling, so the People's Party, far from getting better funding for Galicia, which allowed us to invade our country's capacity by establishing from Madrid the expenditure ceiling and thus limiting to the most powerful instrument we can have, like budgets, the capacity for intervention and decision-making since Galicia. The only transfer that has taken place in this Parliament was that of AP-9. And, of course, this was done in spite of the People's Party, because throughout all the years he ruled in the State he denied the possibility that we would get that transfer. We don't hide from them that we're also concerned about the slow handling of this law in Congress, and we could even end up seeing how, if at the end of the day, the hidden thing that Pedro Sánchez has just done, that law is not being dealt with, and how once again the claim of the transfer to AP-9 becomes wet again. It would be a coat of hair and, of course, we would feel like a new discrimination and aggravation with our country. In any case, we welcome the People's Party on the request for competences for Galicia drawn up in this recent agreement of this Parliament. And we, like the Greeks and the Greeks, believe that we have to be people of speech and that the agreements are about to be fulfilled. We want to begin to give content to that agreement by calling for the transfer of marine rescue and the fight against marine pollution. We are sure that, after proclaiming in this House that Galicia must be in the division of honour in matters of competence, we will rely on the support of the PP and also of the rest of the parliamentary political forces. And we also hope that this will be the beginning of a change of course so that we will end that decade of lethal centralism which has brought only to Galicia discrimination, none and no backwardness. And the last example we have had was the State budgets, which obviously leave us another reality, and it is that, in order to respect us as a people, we must start to respect ourselves both from the Government and from Parliament. So I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that support for this bill is a step in that direction. Because, moreover, we have great reason to ask the State to transfer Galicia's maritime rescue and marine pollution skills. They simply reflect on two realities: we have the highest rate of suffering in the sea of all Europe and we are the second point on the planet most assaulted as a result of the impact of large-scale black tides. We could think this is because we're the territory where more ships pass through and with more dangerous merchandise. However, that's not reality. The point that has a higher traffic and that condenses a larger number of dangerous goods isn't the Fistra corridor, is Gibraltar. So, indeed, for this reality to be what we have on our backs, there obviously has to be some reason. Finally, those who are given to mysticism may think that we have a biblical plague that makes the Greeks and the Greeks doomed to lose their lives in the sea or our backs are an attraction pole for ships loaded with merchandise. I'm not of that theory, but we think that we need to talk about an inadaptation of legislation to the Greek reality and also about the lack of a dimensional, thought-out and structured maritime rescue service, given what is the reality of our country. There are a number of names, ladies and gentlemen, that certainly sound to us all, like Exeo Sea, Casson, Urquiola, Andros Patria, Erkowit, Polycommander or Prestige. These were some of the ships that marked the black history of all the major maritime accidents that suffered our country. But there are also other disasters, which are the lives that are lost in the sea and that we have suffered in a very strong way in recent years. The statistics tell us about a hundred sinking ships in which we've been in the 21st century, the last were Sin Querer II and Silvosa. And, of course, we have always been very clear. This tragedy is not attributable to any government, this tragedy is a structural problem that our country has and that, of course, when we are seeing that government is repeated after government, and even in different political regimes, it is clear that there are structural problems that need to be solved. We have very clear that, in order to put solutions, we must have tools to do so and put in place a new framework from the point of view of maritime rescue and the fight against marine pollution that takes into account the reality of Greece. Because it's obvious that, if we think about the reality of our coast, it has nothing to do with what happens on the rest of the peninsula. Look, there's no reality in the entire territory of the Spanish State like ours: 4,000 vessels of bass and shellfish to the fleet, high-risk activities, such as extraction of notice, 1,200 auxiliary boats of bata, 400 boats that are made on the shores of the fence, of the trawler or of the longliner. And to this reality of all the activity that is being done around our rivers and our coastline, one must add a hundred vessels a day on the fisterra maritime transit separation device, and 35 dangerous goods; which makes every year pass over our coasts 36,000 ships, of which nearly 13,000 transport hydrocarbons, like the Prestige. This is just an X-ray of a differential fact that makes us need to adapt the marine rescue to the coast of our country. Unfortunately we have many examples of the fact that not understanding the reality of the sea in Galicia causes security problems. Now, look, there's power limitations on the engines in the lightboats. This is a real barbarity because it makes people who work in very dangerous conditions have less chance of getting out of that situation. The obligation to carry bottles, which in many cases do not catch the kind of boats in our country's creeks. We know that there are certified life jackets that are not fit to work on board, and that, gentlemen, is endangering the lives of the people of the sea. We have a distribution of discriminatory maritime rescue, and there are obvious problems in the operation of the relief system in Galicia that cause on many occasions intolerable delays in rescue processes. They think that when a boat in Galicia emits a relief signal, that signal goes to Madrid, in Madrid they decide which means to mobilize, from Madrid they call the Marine Rescue Coordination Centre in Galicia to implement those decisions. That means delaying in an unacceptable way by making decisions to save lives at sea, and we know that every minute at sea counts and that one minute can be decisive. Or we have another spook, like what happened on the Death Coast, which, after spending 2 million euros on a base and 13 million euros on a helicopter, remains without a sea rescue base carried 24 hours a day. It's a sample -- I'd say that almost contempt -- of the disillusionment that our country is dealing with. After spending 15 million euros, in theory to provide the Death Coast with a 24-hour maritime rescue base, the only thing we have is a ghost helicopter in Liras, which shows us how little they understand us from Madrid that they are not even able to put in place a sea rescue base. An example of the inadequacy of the current framework and mismanagement of public resources. That is why we defend these powers, to put in place a new model of maritime rescue, a service of Greek ownership that responds immediately and that leaves the bureaucracy behind; a public service, universal and free that leaves behind that economic model that we know conditions both salvation, and a service well equipped and coordinated with the rest of the services of the State, Portugal, the European Union and also of the International Maritime Organization. We are, ladies and gentlemen, faced with a proposal that is viable and legal, which only depends on political will. Because when the Greeks and the Greeks make decisions and let us do so, we show that we are able to improve things. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we meet the expectations, that no one takes a step back in the defence of Galicia and, as the distinguished and illustrious Members of the People's Party said, that we do not fall from the division of honour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning. Once again, the BNG is involved in its proposed assumption by the Autonomous Community of Galicia of maritime rescue skills and fights against marine pollution, in particular by a bill that now decides to include in this plenary session, when it was registered in November 2017, that is, approximately fifteen months ago. It is not the first time — we have said — and, as a background to this same question, it must be pointed out that it was the subject of debate in the years 2010 and 2014, and the same initiative was at the Congress of Deputies also in 2014, before the treatment by the plenary of this House in Greece, when the BNG was represented in the General Courts. This persistent and repetitive position of the BNG on this issue will also have on the side of the Socialist Group a consistent position with that maintained on previous occasions. So, as we said five years ago in this House, for us there will not be the debate on this issue, nor will we be prevented from dealing seriously and strictly with a subject which is of great importance. But we will maintain that respect for the competence framework. If this parliamentary process were to be overcome, this group would have to amend very thoroughly the text presented, with concrete arguments, for our part, in relation to the content of the normative part of this bill, which I already advance that they are very similar to those previously used by this parliamentary group. It is important to remember, in any case, that the last transfers received were during the government of progress presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, and that since that time there has been no movement on the part of the Council of Galicia. As a general position, it should be noted that, on the part of the Socialist Group, it is considered necessary to make a firm commitment to the momentum of transfers, both in this Parliament and in the Government of Greece, in order to better comply with the Germans and with the Greeks in the provision of certain public services. Without prejudice to the above, it does not mean that one can automatically assimilate a position favourable to any competitive issue, but rather that it will be taking into account the benefits and efficiency of the various public functions towards citizenship, and precisely by valuing it in these terms: benefits and efficiency for citizenship. In this case, we are talking specifically about the ability to respond and we are talking about the best use of the media. That's what must be the prime at the time of the valuation of the assumption or not of certain competences. I mean, a better effective provision of services to the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Precisely to bet decisively on the impulse of transfers, the Socialist Group presented on Monday a parliamentary initiative for the positioning of all groups, and for its subsequent debate in plenary, in which we relate a number of subjects which we believe would be necessary to promote, on a priority basis, a package of 30 new competences, among which there are subjects in which progress is needed — including some in the field relating to this proposed law. Among them, the delegation of inspection functions on maritime vessels, the management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial and the management of uses and activities, the granting of concessions and authorisations for the use of public domain maritime-terrestrial, fishing and sports spaces integrated into the ports of general interest of the State or the installations provided for in Article 110(b) of the Law of Costs; issues in which we believe that there should be a greater degree of agreement, in which the transfer would be more feasible and, as stated above, always taking into account the benefits and efficiency of the various public functions towards citizenship and precisely valuing them in these terms. By entering into the specific content of the bill, it seems appropriate to point out that, unlike other competences, maritime security is a competition that currently does not have any autonomous community, nor even those which theoretically could have a chance less problematic or more justifiable fit, such as the islanders, Balearics and Canary Islands. It is clear, and no one will deny it, that Galicia is a European country where fishing and marine activities are vitally important. But the most serious accidents — and when we talk about more serious accidents, we refer to more severe consequences and consequences, except those that have to do with the loss of human lives, which in that case are extremely serious — are associated with international trafficking. And when there's an accident like this, it affects the means that you're willing to deal with. But it also decisively influences international regulation, which in most cases progresses slowly; and even, on many occasions, international coordination and cooperation. We all have in mind, by its gravity, the case of the Prestige in 2002, which brought out before the public the mismanagement by the government presided over by Mr. Aznar — that for Mr. Rajoy were simply "plastillin's son". The general regulatory framework laid down in the Spanish Constitution is known, where Article 149 sets out the exclusive powers of the State and in paragraph 1.20a of this Article establishes as exclusive competition in merchant marines, hence the reference to that article of the Spanish Constitution and Article 36 of the Statute of the Autonomous Authority of Galicia in Article 1 of the proposed law of the BNG. It also knows the existence of international conventions and treaties binding on the State. For example: the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, which obliges coastal states; the International Maritime Search and Rescue Convention 1989, which obliges the State to have a single rescue coordinator; the International Convention for the Safety of Human Life at Sea; the Convention on Minimum Standards of the Merit; the International Convention on Standards of Training, Titleing and Guarding for Sea People; and Community legislation, with a package of legislative measures initially promoted through Directives 2009/18 and 2009/123, aimed at improving maritime safety and the prevention of pollution caused by ships to reduce the risk of maritime accidents, and corresponding to their Member States. They are agreements and regulations that have to be signed or approved by States without this function being assumed by communities or European regions. They therefore consist of services which are provided beyond the Spanish territorial sea, extending to outer waters of other countries under these international agreements. By decision of the International Maritime Organization itself, Spain is covering 1.5 million square kilometers, a surface far above the entire Iberian peninsula. And even there is a ruling by the Constitutional Court itself that undoubtedly considered the state's competence in the matter of maritime rescue, and clearly defines the powers of autonomous ownership, encircling them and delimiting them to the rescue in Galicia. So there are aspects of maritime rescue that have to do with international commitments, that have to do with legislation, that have to do with pragmatism and the effectiveness of its application, and that have to remain the competence of the State, even in its foreign policy dimension. This, in addition, we believe it deeply, because we consider it to be the best thing for this country. But it is true that, apart from these issues referred to above, there may be some margin of action on some of the issues that the BNG is putting forward today on this initiative, issues which we understand come to agree with the agreement which was adopted in Parliament in 2008, in which the request for a series of competences to be transferred in different areas — among them some aspects on maritime safety, on rescue services and on meteorology services — was requested. But, to our understanding, away from the formulation set out in the bill presented today. Finally, as we said five years ago in this House, we will not be left with the debate on this issue in this House, nor will we be an obstacle to a serious and rigorous discussion of a subject which is of great importance. But we will maintain the competence framework, and, if this parliamentary process is to be overcome, this Socialist Group would have to amend very thoroughly the text presented. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning. We are going to support the consideration of this bill because we believe that it opens a necessary debate and, in general terms, we agree with what is proposed in it. As a general framework, we believe that it would also help us take a first step in that much-needed change in the centralist and recentralizing policy that the People's Party has been pursuing in recent years. Many times the People's Party has prevented Galicia from increasing its capacity for self-government. We believe that this is an example, but we know that many times the denial of the People's Party to achieve new competences has been systematic in this debate. We believe that this is very significant, as much as they then make announcements in favour of self-government, if then in the day-to-day period and in reality what they vote here in this Parliament, and what they do when they are ruling, is totally contradictory. From the specific issue that we are talking about today, we believe that it would be very important to achieve the decision-making capacity in matters of maritime rescue and in the fight against marine pollution, because, as has already been said here, they are vital themes for our country. We know that these matters are of great importance to the Galician back and we believe that these decisions cannot be made hundreds of miles away from them. The examples are multiple. As mentioned here, we know of the serious environmental damage and all the losses that have been caused by accidents — the most known and they are not as well — such as that of the Exeo Sea, the Casón or the Prestige. But we also know that there are multiple cases of emergencies that occur on our backs, and that they are not occasional accidents. Unfortunately, it's a very common reality and, on too many occasions, it leads to the loss of human lives. If we take a look and think about the last few years, the data, the truth, does not give rise to doubts that we have to fully rethink what is being done, or what is being omitted. Because, of course, you're not being effective with the goal that is being pursued. Both data from maritime disasters and work accidents are very negative to our country. In 2016 979 accidents occurred; in 2017, 1,023. And the data we know so far is still negative. As I said, it is a matter of particular importance to our country, because if we take a look, for example, at the last report of the Commission on Maritime Accidents and Incidences, of the 30 cases investigated - we know that only the most serious ones are being investigated - 37% took place in Galicia. It's a very high percentage, so it's necessary to take action. They're very alarming data, especially if we take into account the relationship between the loss of jobs that occurred in the special regime of the sea. They're even more serious if we make that relationship: we've lost jobs, but sinisterness is still very high. We recently discussed, at the end of a question, the need to open a research commission on maritime sinequality in Galicia. We do not agree with the position of the Board, which does not see it necessary because there is a committee dependent on Development, which is the one who is currently conducting these investigations. We believe that efforts add up, in no way remain — in fact, the government's own commission is also in relation to European bodies. One of the problems with these investigations is the slowness of these. We know that we have to be very strict about these issues, but we have to put more means. And, in any case, we believe that if Galicia and the Union take sides and take action, in no case — as I say — they will remain but will add up. And we debate this proposal having also very much in mind, of course, what happened in the black days of December in the ships of Malpica and Cambados. Surely we'll all remember that month of December as one of the most tragic for our sea sector. And what we can do about these issues is listen to the sector itself, which tells us very interesting things to prevent similar situations from happening again in the future. About what happened in Malpica, what led to José Angel's life, the best thing we can do — as I say — is listen to what moves us to the confrerery and the deceased's own family. Security evases were detected, moved away, they had to do with the increase of currents following the last works done, so it's necessary to take action. It is urgent that action be taken immediately so that, as José Ángel's mother said, no sailor will die again at the door of his house. And this is an example of what to do, of course; but we know it's not the only one, that we need to make an assessment of the infrastructure situation in the country's ports to detect all possible errors or errors that exist to improve security. On the other hand, we believe that other accidents are manifesting and re-visiting the conditions in which seamen and sea workers often have to get out of the sea, often in very adverse weather conditions. And this has to do with the precarious economic condition that these sailors have to live, often suffocated. In other economic conditions, they would probably not be able to get out of those conditions. If we do an assessment of what has been done so far in the field of safety and prevention, for us the evaluation is negative. We believe that we have to take radically different measures because in some ways it is not that we will not improve but that we believe that we will even step back. And one of the reasons for this retreat — in our opinion — has a great deal to do with the politics of privatizing everything that goes before the People's Party. Not only in this field — we have talked about this issue, in general, in public services — but in this particular case there are many examples of what it takes to remedy: the service of marine rescue helicopters has been privatized with the argument that they were obsolete. So many years later they've been hiring those same helicopters, and that contract's making the Galician society lose one million euros every year. The contract with which four ships from the Galego Service of Gardacostas were privatized in 2006 was also extended for the tenth time, or the maritime radio communications systems were privatized. This is a model that the only ones who benefit are certain companies. To the whole of Greek society, it doesn't bring any benefits. We think we need to change it for that. Of course, the transfer of competences must be achieved, but we also need to bet once and for all by the public, by public services. We give this debate, the truth, without much hope that the debate will take place in realistic terms. Because many times — especially with this theme, and we have seen it in recent weeks — when we talk about this issue, the only thing that interventions are used is to give evasives or to seek self-justification. We think it's not what we have to do. Self-criticism must be done. If there are things that are done wrong and that can be improved, self-criticism must be done. Parliament should not only be used to seek justification. And many times it is also ignored what is approved in this Parliament. There are many examples, but one specific example is a resolution that was adopted three years ago, so it was urged to set up a program for the development of improvements on ships, with special fincapé, of course, in security progress. And today we know nothing of these proposals. The proposals being debated in this Parliament are often left empty and not met. And that is also an obligation of the Government to comply with what this Parliament approves. This Parliament cannot be used to advertise and that years later these proposals continue without being complied with. It's not new. When it was the Prestige's case in 2002, a lot of maritime security promises were heard, a lot of questions would be raised. Today, so many years after that dramatic event, the only thing we have is unmet promises, the only thing we have is the same. Many headlines have been sold, and today nothing has been done for such a tragedy as this — tragedy as often as in our sea — not to repeat itself. That is why we — as I said — are going to support this proposal, believe that it can be useful to advance these issues. Of course, then, in the debate period, we will have to make contributions and amendments, if this is the case; given the evolution of the German Government, we do not know whether it will vote in favour — certainly not, because, as always, Galicia will be denied the capacity to have more self-government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u9	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to address the proponent group of taking into account this law to tell you that we are not going to join your game. Because, as the Socialist Party spokeswoman also said, it's registered in November 2017 and we're debating it today. We are debating it at the same time as you are claiming this competition, at a time when you are approving some accounts of which you are complicit. They are accomplices of nationalism before Galicia. That's true, and they want to cover all kinds of debate -- which we'll see later -- in budgets that put a 19% scissors in Galicia, and it's okay. Little mouth! [[Applause]] It's okay! [[Applause]] Here we will all claim competences! because so we already speak that the PP people are the evil ones who do not want self-government and who are not strengthening it for anything with the process of these competences; when you know perfectly — and I in my speech and in my speech will try to explain why it is not necessary — that more competences is not a guarantee of better means or of saving more lives, as it has been said here. [[Applause]] We've always been in the same place. I've been reviewing the debates on this subject. If it is true that it has been debated in this House three times: in 2003, in 2010 and 2014 — in 2014, by the way, before Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the People's Party in Galicia revalidated their third absolute majority. And, look, the People's Party has always been in the same place. That's what the Greeks know, they know perfectly well. And that's why we're always on the side of the Greeks and learning, in addition, about the disasters we've had, the ones we unfortunately have. We learn a lot from them. Look, we know that the Socialist Party — and what I've been reading from the other debates — is also in ambiguity, it remains in ambiguity. And the dates of the debates coincided in the hemerotheque with issues that are also conflicting and perhaps not so appealing to the Socialist Party. And so they have to be in that ambiguity, they don't decide whether or not they can't decide. And we believe that this issue needs two maximums that we in the People's Party have always been very present, which are rationality and coordination. That's the fundamental thing in these maritime rescue and pollution fighting lines, as you know. I was also reading on Sunday an information that was in a German newspaper and was talking about the Bipartite era, because I was talking a little about this subject and the Touriño statements; a former president of the board — which I deeply respect — who said that the important thing was coordination. We never talked about a transfer, about the need to transfer these powers to Galicia. I was also reading statements by Anxo Quintana saying that, of course, when Zapatero needed BNG's votes, he allowed him everything he wanted. Of course, now, because they have no representation in Madrid, they're not able to take those blackmails that they do through the Catalan nationalists. So what happened? That those cooks, those compadres that you had with Zapatero -- the Galego Nationalist Block -- made them see to the Greeks that the main thing they had in their mind was nationalism and not Galicia, and so then they didn't get any deputy in Madrid to represent them. Well, with regard to maritime rescue — which is the important thing — there must certainly be talk about the provision of competences. And maritime rescue is part of the competence of merchant seafarers, the exclusive powers of the State contained in Article 149.1.20a of the Constitution, which no one has referred to this. And the competition for its execution is recognised in favour of autonomous communities in article 264.5 of the recast text of the Law on Ports of the State and the merchant navy. Sinala — he read textually — "It corresponds to the autonomous communities which have assumed it as their own competence in their respective autonomy statutes the implementation of the law of the State in matters of maritime rescue in the territorial waters corresponding to its coastline, in which the sanctioning power is understood to be included in any case". In the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, it is provided for in Article 29.3 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia. So, since you remembered the Prestige, if it's true that the Prestige made us react and learn a lot of things. And it took a lot of time for Willem to come here from Ruiter, executive director of the European Maritime Safety Agency, to say textually that "no Member State itself is prepared to fight such a case." No Member State! So we should take note of this. "The European Union was not prepared to deal with such a case, there were not as many equipment as needed." How much less an autonomous community! — as you say — since the transfer of competence does not mean that it improves more in maritime rescue. The means are more important than their own competences. We can also remember that in the Gulf of Mexico, in 2010, the Councillory of the Sea, Galicia, had to resign and had to help with its means so that there in the United States they could do it against the cleaning of hydrocarbons. So we have to see that this has dimensions that you have here. And certainly, in addition, it could be important to have competences, at best, in its political ideal; but more important is coordination, the media are more important. And the maritime emergencies in this area are co-ordinated at the Marine Rescue Coordination Zone of the Forest, as you know. There are very specialized technicians who know the media very well and who know very well how to react. I want to remember here also a person who worked everywhere, who was the late Loyola of Palacio. After the Prestige accident in Europe he was working on legislation, working to ensure that the European Maritime Agency today has a reaction capacity on the Atlantic coasts and on the Cantabrian coasts. And it is fundamental and necessary not to transfer competences to Galicia, but that Galicia is always present in those decisions, and that it is present in that agency. Because really — as we have seen and learned unfortunately from the cases we have had in Galicia — it is very difficult to deal with it individually from an autonomous community. It wasn't better when the Greeks decided about maritime rescue, because here you're talking about Madrid making a decision. No, no, look, there was a decision to install a helicopter in Cee, a political decision by José Blanco, who then went here... yes, yes, it was made with the Bipartite with open arms, with a deficit of total operationality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There was a decision to equip us in Galicia with a third helicopter on the part of the Bipartite with a 30-minute response, in front of the model of two helicopters that is now there, which has a 10-minute response and, in addition, with presence guards 24 hours the 365 days of the year. Galician maritime rescue, the means we have in Galicia are to brag and suck. They spoke before self-esteem. Total self-esteem!, because Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has the best means of maritime rescue. And unfortunately I have to say it because we have a lot to learn. You guys talked about maritime accidents. Well, that's what gave us strength and experience to know how it's more effective, how it's more effective, saving lives, and not just political decisions. Because it is certainly more important — this time and again — to have more means. Having skills is no guarantee of saving more lives. Have more means if it can be a guarantee of saving them; have means, have techniques, have reaction capacity and be well coordinated. I insist that it is not the People's Party that talks about this, because there are European Commissioners who ratify these theories and a former president of the Union — Emilio Pérez Touriño — that also ratify these theories. So we are not aliens put here, and besides an absolute majority that the Greeks reinforce every year that we present to the elections. Galicia and the People's Party always wagered for means, for very operational means. And you don't sell this as a drama, because really Galicia is an example for other autonomous communities. This summer I read that in the Basque Country, for example, they had two helicopters broken up. They had to rent another helicopter, and still above they were spending more money... yes, yes, look, Galicia had airstrikes at 24 hours, as I said earlier, of 365 days of the year, with a response time of ten minutes. [[Murmurs.]] You in the Bipartite preferred thirty minutes of reply. We don't know very well what we owe. We're providing the renovation of four patrols, and a heavy patrol; we've been incorporating 42 new people since 2014. That is to say, take out the chest and boast of the maritime rescue in Galicia because it is an example for the rest of Spain and it is an example in Europe. He insisted first on rationality, what we here call "sentidy," because it's also very important. It is more important to exercise the competences and means we have here — general coordination at European, international and state level — than to try to have political debates criticizing something that we must always try to improve. Coordination is much more important than the media. It is also important to improve the means and to have funding. Why do you not add to the requests that we have for a transfer, for example, of economic support from the Ministry of Development, which would come from the fees of lighthouses and sea signs collected and which are destined for the financing of similar activities, from the gaga de emergencias Agency? It's more important, as I say, to be careful in decisions. Because a European Commissioner came here saying that the ports of refuge were fundamental, and the Nationalist Bloc and In Marea absolutely refuse, without any justification, to which these ports exist. We want more rescue policy and less rescue policy. I insist, Galicia learned a lot from the unfortunate accidents that happened in the back. And today, thanks to work in Europe, hard work in Europe, in the Ministry — and from Galicia too — we have an Emergency Gallaga Agency that has a reaction capacity on the Atlantic coasts and on the Cantabrian coasts. And we can feel more protected, not satisfied, but much more protected. We therefore believe that this debate is not taking place here today, that this is a smoke curtain that you are taking out now — I insist — because they are complicit in the accounts that put a 19% scissors in Galicia. Then, a lot of competition; but then, of financing and money here, none! You prefer the interests of nationalism, wherever they are, than the interests of Galicia. That's very clear. The self-government—the People's Party of Galicia has also made it clear—very strengthened; in that it has always been where the People's Party of Galicia is now, and it will continue to be. The Greeks know that too. We thought the PSOE could join our position, because it's perfectly justified. But, as always, as always, they go in ambiguity. I'll read what Mr. Touriño said, who said, "Galicia has full exclusive competences for many years in the matter of mountains and, in spite of that, the fires continue with one government and another. This House must make a reflection, its group too, because the problem does not necessarily have to do with competence, but with the exercise of self-government. We need to be able to distinguish between gaining skills and acting effectively together when there is a crisis." But, of course, where did Mr. Touriño stand now!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u11	I'll be done. I say that higher skills are no guarantee of saving more lives. And I would ask En Marea to join our position. As you have already said, no, which will support the consideration of this law, I would ask you, please — that there will then be a debate —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u13	...that Galician accounts are the necessary ones and what we want, and not that scissors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Replica from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u15	"Galice demands the same competences as Basque Country and Catalonia". "The Galician Parliament demands competences at the same level as the Basque Country and Catalonia." "The Galician PP now claims" — it was 15 days ago — "the highest self-government, like Basque Country and Catalonia." He wants the same skills as Euskadi and Catalonia. [[Applause]] What happened, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? What happened these 15 days? Perhaps, of course, he lifted the phone from Madrid Mr. Pablo Casado, who gave orders to Feijóo, and told them not to play any more skills for Galicia because the agenda of the PP whose brand is the extreme right from Madrid. [[Applause]] We've seen how much Galicia cares! A chicken, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! We see, gentlemen, how much they care! [[Applause]] "Galicia is neither a community nor a... listen! [[Strong murmurers.]] If they are your words, they are the statements of your spokespersons! I thought I'd be applauding at the end of this intervention after I mentioned them so much. "Galice is neither a third-party nor a fourth-party community. We want to be in the division of honor, as is the Basque Country and Catalonia. We want to negotiate the transfer of competences, of all, all." [[Murmurs.]] They wanted to negotiate them every 15 days. We were called to order by Mr. Married. And, indeed, Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, you care about a piece of shit. That's exactly what they care about this country and security at sea. You have to say it, because they make statements that are in order. The People's Party spoke to us here about nationalist blackmails. But if a year ago they were negotiating with the PNV the state budgets and they negotiated the Basque coupon with an impressive improvement for Euskadi while cutting EUR 442 million to Galicia! And the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, shut up; Mr. Feijóo, shut up. Because, of course, for you there is always before the People's Party that Galicia. This is really what's happening. I don't know if they've found out, but it's just that in Euskadi they're negotiating maritime rescue skills. They're negotiating with the central government. It's in the transfer package they're negotiating. What's wrong? Do we have to go back? Do we have to wait for Euskadi to negotiate them so that in the People's Party they dare to claim something for this country, when, if somewhere makes sense that we claim maritime rescue skills, is it in Galicia? They really didn't learn anything from the Prestige. The only thing they've learned is that you always, always, prefer that you decide Madrid and don't decide Galicia. It's really, ladies and gentlemen, a real paperhead what you're doing right now. [[Applause]] Clearly, the People's Party has been in the same place for ten years, which is against Galicia and subordinates Galicia to the interests of the People's Party, complicit in each and every discrimination. Welcome, Mr Feijóo, to this debate. It's just that they're very upset and altered. [[Mr. President of the Galician Union entered the Chamber.]] I don't know if it's the polls, I don't know exactly what changed them to Columbus. [[Strong murmurers.]] It's just that they come a little excited with the extreme right, I don't know exactly what's going on with them, because, indeed, I think Mr Feijóo — I really appreciate it right now, even if it's just to vote in this debate — has to explain to us why fifteen days ago he defended this: "He wants you to have the same competences as Euskadi and Catalonia." [[Applause]] [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo shows a role from the rostrum.]] And now, when the Basques are claiming maritime rescue competition, they come here saying no. I imagine at this moment you'll be calling Mr. Married to tell you that you vote "no," right, Mr. Feijóo? Because that's what you do. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] What a shame! [[Applause]] Look, I think in politics it's very important to have a word. Fifteen days ago you voted that they wanted the same skills as Euskadi and Catalonia. We see that it lasted for fifteen days that frenzy for Galicia and that, of course, now what they bring is the spirit of Columbus: subordination, subordination and extreme right. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. After we have finished the debate on this bill, we shall proceed to the vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of competences to the Autonomous Community of Galicia in matters of maritime rescue and the fight against marine pollution. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u17	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to attendances. The opinion of Mrs. Director of Infrastructure and Mobility, on his own request, to report on the current situation of the calendar and prospects of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u18	In order to formulate the appearance, Ms. Ethel Vázquez has the floor to advise on Infrastructure and Mobility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today, on my own request, with the objective of reporting on the work we are doing to ensure the improvement of the public transport service in Galicia — to address the current situation — and of the planned timetable and prospects of what the Galicia Public Transport Plan is, in which we are working intensively. And the truth is, it's in full development. It is a matter which, as you know, is not new, which I have already had the opportunity to address in this Parliament already within the framework of the annual budget appearances. I also appeared in this House before the launch in August 2017, in circumstances other than the present, complicated circumstances in which users were being harmed, were being harmed, by days of strike. And I also believe that I have met with the answers, the different responses, the specific initiatives of the different groups in this House. The last one was that of the People's Party, where I've made progress on the steps we are taking to modernize all public transport throughout Galicia this year 2019. As I said, in 2019 the Public Transport Plan will be implemented throughout Galicia, throughout the territory of the autonomous community. It is urban transport and I believe that, of course, it must be explained in detail. And that's why I called for this appearance, to transfer the progress we are taking to this House, the steps we are taking, to put in place a public transport plan for the future and a public transport in terms of equality; viable, sustainable, useful public transport for the future; better transport adapted to the mobility needs of the Greeks so that it is more attached to the territorial reality that we have in Galicia. I wanted to take advantage of this particular moment, just the first plenary session after starting public information last February 1 of the first operating projects of the services to be launched next August. So immediately, interest, concern and work on the part of the Galician board to give all the information about all the work we're doing and all the progress we're making. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been working since Galicia to comply with European legislation, to culminate in, in 2019, the entire renewal of the Galician public transport plan, the interurban bus. And we will be the first autonomous community in implementing, in modernising, this complete modernization in the entire autonomous community of the Public Transport Plan and hence of the buses in urban areas. We started this work, as you know, in 2017 already to comply with the relevant regulations, with a European regulatory framework that prevented the extension of transport concessions, and also with the resignations of certain companies that continue to carry out the public transport service. It was a right they had, they gave up; a right they exercised and, therefore, a right they exercised to renounce 578 long-distance public transport lines that mainly affected almost all Ourense, much of Lugo and, to a lesser extent, Pontevedra and Coruña. They were conditioners that made us deploy in 2017 the first phase. We started the launch of the Public Transport Plan, with new services that were running and that started to run on August 8, 2017. It is therefore an unattainable public transport plan, indispensable, for the guarantee of public service and for the guarantee of employment as well. That's what it was to us: the responsibility to guarantee service, to guarantee employment, and that's why it was a vital and unapproachable plan. There was a desire to bring it forward. Of course, it was a challenge. We wanted to move that plan, make it really an opportunity to improve transport services, knowing that, of course, public transport had room for improvement in Galicia. Because the truth is most public transport services were designed in the previous century and, of course, there was room for improvement. So we are now faced with a unique occasion to improve public transport and to implement that necessary modernization of transport services and also of the sector. And so we did: we designed, we planned, we worked, and we have a very clear roadmap, a precise schedule to protect public transport services, fit services and, of course, guarantee employment. The roadmap was expected to implement the first services in August 2017. It is a roadmap that implies that this year 2019 we implement the Public Transport Plan throughout the autonomous community, throughout Galicia. And we do it with the previous experience of 2017 and the learning, of course, of all this time, since the implementation in August 2017 of the first phase. We have as our main goal, our main goal, to improve mobility mainly in our rural areas, in line with the agenda of the German Government, and that's why we're following what we've already implemented in 2017. Let me take a look at the results of the services that were implemented in August 2017, because without that first part, I don't think we'd understand what we're doing this year 2019. A great effort, a great work, we chose the most complicated path because it was best for the interests of the Greeks, and that path, which was the complicated but necessary for Galicia, was, after a great effort of all, mainly of the public employees of the Galician Union, to implement in August 2017 the first phase of the Public Transport Plan. We made sure Galicia didn't run out of transport, we managed to get Galicia out of a day without transport. We succeeded in maintaining employment; without this plan we would not have jobs in 2017, 500 jobs that we had and managed to expand and improve services in rural areas — yes, ladies and gentlemen — and in addition with efficient modalities: shared transport and demand transport. In different ways, by articulating the recruitment of new services and, although European legislation allowed us to make direct adjudications, we have made a much more transparent and much more participatory process. We also guarantee jobs with the social clause, with important social clauses that we have signed with the majority unions. We think of the German business fabric, of small and medium-sized enterprises, to maximize their possibility, and we limit the number of contracts to a single company by 25%, thinking of the German business fabric, of small and medium-sized enterprises. And we designed new services after a lot of dialogue and participatory work, new services — as I said — with two modalities that we see fundamental to having a public transport in the future: the shared bus, using these empty squares of school transport, being the schoolchildren who have armored attention, because schoolchildren are sacred; and also the shared bus, that is, taking advantage of buses not going empty and that actually leaves the bus when there is a reservation or a neighbor who really needs the service. What we don't want is half an empty bus, which runs through our roads, and therefore we bet on these efficient modes. At the same time, we have therefore made it possible for the neighbours where the bus was previously not available to them because the bus arrives thanks to these new modes of transport. It's a model that has a great social impact. They know that school transportation is one of the most extensive in Spain; the truth is that one quarter of the miles of school transport from all over Spain travels here in Galicia, which offers an exceptional capillary to take advantage of and extend public transport to the rest of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, new modalities that we launched in 2017, we improved services — 800 new lines in 2017, almost twice as many as there were, an increase of 37% of the bus kilometres -- and we looked at areas that were previously unattended, had no transport, thanks to 491 shared bus lines and 492 lines of transport to the demand we implemented in 2017. So we managed to offer greater territorial coverage and double the number of lines, triple stops, so people had more mobility opportunities in Galicia. In these new contracts we also won the quality, safety belts, less fleet age, modernization of vehicles, more adapted vehicles, and we also gave coverage — also very important, which weighed on us in 2017 — to the workers, and, in addition, gave that coverage by also raising 33% of the escorts, and thus more jobs. And we also activate technological tools. We started the platform, the bus.gal web page, with timetable information and routes; also the call centre, to consult the transport on demand. And yet, from the moment we aspired to this year 2019 to continue to improve. We want to take advantage of and modernize public transport, we want to take advantage of this modernization, strengthen the safety of the schoolchildren, we have shielded the attention of an escort on each line, on every line, but we continue to deepen with new technologies to provide more information to the schoolchildren. Test is the platforms and new applications that we have in testing in Lousam and also in the Carballo area, a new application for caregivers, to get more control and information from schoolchildren. When that application is fully operational, we will offer parents the possibility that they will have a personalized confirmation about their child's arrival at the teaching center. Therefore, advance to all levels, within the framework of the first services of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia. After that ingenious work, which has been going on for years and a half, we can make sure, without mistake, that we have certainly managed to ensure that Galicia did not have a single day without public transport, we managed to give stability to the workers and today transport is better than it was, and it translates into an increase of 1.2%, something especially relevant if we note that outside the metropolitan areas, users were going down. We have thus achieved a more modern, more efficient and more sustainable transport, which I have to say has a good reception from citizens. The shared bus. The bus shared since August 2017 has been used by more than 300,000 general users, taking advantage of these empty squares of school buses; the call centre has responded to nearly 4,500 requests for requests for transportation to demand. And, therefore, it is important to continue working on this line and on the modalities that have been tested since 2017. And just as we've been planning since the beginning, in 2019, to re-contract, all lines grow in August, and also in December 2019 that are incorporated into the rest of the lines that expire in Galicia. So in 2019 we will renew all public transport service lines across the community; an opportunity that is certainly unique, which will allow us to plan without preconditions all public transport in the community, modernize public transport, implement sustainable, more efficient and better adapted public transport to the needs of the Greeks of this 21st century. To carry out this new phase, in public transport we have valuable tools — as I have said — the experience of the learned in 2017; the tranquility of the new modalities that we have implemented in 2017 — which are tested and contrasted —: the shared bus, the transport to demand; and the endorsement, the endorsement of the data, the downstream of the results, also the good reception of users. We have been involved for months in the development of the Galician Public Transport Plan to culminate in its implementation, a plan in which we have gained three basic principles: promoting people's mobility in terms of equality — equality is an important issue — security, quality, social efficiency and economic and environmental sustainability, enhancing the use of public transport and also promoting intermodality and also promoting accessibility. To achieve these goals, we organize the lines in different hierarchys: autonomic lines, interco-marginal lines, comarical lines, municipal lines. It's an organization from now on designed to respond in the best way possible to the needs of the Greeks, users. In February 2018 we bid for the first service contracts, the first studies to examine in detail the services currently provided and also the needs. There was a wide fieldwork with surveys, gathering data from the main demand centers, health centers, hospitals, business centers, industrial polygons, dialogue and participation with all the municipalities, with all the municipalities they wanted; I did not want one, which is the Vigo Town Hall, but, of course, with all those who wanted to speak to have their observations. Inquiries also customised to users to know the direct public transport needs. In April 2018 we opened the first of the public information processes, the basic document of the Galician Public Transport Plan, a base document that defined the model we wanted to come to, a model for organizing public transport, and we submit it to the consideration of the various agents involved and of all the people who wanted to participate in this document. At the end of November, a new step forward: adopted the base document of the Public Transport Plan by the Council of the Union, once it was approved by the Galego Transport Council, with a favourable report; a rector document, therefore, which is guiding the development of the work of this plan that will allow us to take the utmost opportunity, I have to say historical opportunity, because it is the first time that is done and offers us the expiry of all concessions this year 2019 in Galicia. Already in recent years, on January 31st, the Board of Trustees agreed to extend the mode of the shared bus, which has proven to be effective and has also shown that it is a possibility to guarantee public transport in Galicia. And, therefore, we bet we're still integrating more school transport lines to turn it into shared transport, and thus bring out more social profitability to what the investments of school transport are. And as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, only a few days ago, on February 1st, in the Official Journal of Galicia, were the first public information on the first exploitation projects, a hundred farm projects; therefore, 100 contracts for the public transport services in Galicia, which we will renew in August and start operating next August. Right now, therefore, they are at the disposal of all of you, all of you, of all stakeholders, these exploitation projects, these technical documents. They have lines, routes, schedules, stops, economic and financial studies, plans, etc., 100 operating projects, and the deadline for public information to be made by them is March 1st. This is the first of the contract groups whose services we started in August 2017 and expire in August 2019. And to understand the scope of these 100 exploration projects, which are the practice of all the lines of all Ourense and Lugo and certain areas of the Coruña and Pontevedra, to see the scope, let me teach you this plan so that you can see all the lines that we are going to implement next August, so that you can see the ingenious work that we are doing, which is a complicated path, but the path that we must do, because the easy thing is not to do anything. [[The Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser lady displays a document.]] This is the reach of all the lines that we have to implement next August; all Ourense, practically all Place, part of Pontevedra and little in the Coruña. This is the range: two thousand lines of transport, nearly two thousand lines of transport, 28 million miles a year for these services to be done. The first elements of improvement, therefore, of these exploitation projects that come out of public information, these hundreds of contracts, are the first parameter of improvement, are the kilometers that we're going through, we're doubling. In 2017, these same contracts that we made this year were 14.7 million miles away, because the kilometers of these 2,000 lines are 28 million miles away, so 13 million miles more and therefore double the miles through the buses and therefore offer more mobility opportunities to the Greeks. And this would not be possible without the mode of shared transport, that exceptional capillary that gives us school transport and that allows us, of course, to reach rural areas and arrive at the bus where it didn't arrive before. In fact, we are planning that, of these 2,000 lines that are in public information in the 100 projects of exploitation, 1,438 are shared lines, in which thirty thousand schoolchildren are served, and in which general users can use these empty squares, shielding, of course, first what schoolchildren, routes, schedules and waiting times are. In fact, this first phase of this year 2019, which is public information in February, which will start services in August, assumes that 35% of school transport will become shared bus. And by the end of the year, already in December 2019, with the second group we will bid, because it will become that 55% of school transport will be a shared bus mode. In shared transport, for another important novelty: to the services that come working in 2017, the integration of school transport will now be done according to the educational centres. So all the lines of an educational center, or they'll be shared buses in their entirety, or they'll be lines that will take education in their entirety. Therefore, an important improvement for better information for all, better management for all. Because priority, of course, is schoolchildren, shielding their attention with a companion. I repeat again: on each line where users are schooled, also to favor the mobility of neighbors and prevent buses from running empty. In these contracts that are public information, 1,038 lines will be on demand, against the 492 lines on demand that was in 2017. So we also increase the services on demand, and to favor these services on demand, we have users at the bus.gal website, which we have activated, as well as the call center and mobile apps that are developing Amtega. For these 100 operating projects, these 100 contracts that are for public information, will be needed more than a thousand buses to provide these services, and in this aspect, in line with what we have already done in 2017, we design these contracts thinking about small and medium-sized enterprises. Of these 100 contracts, a lot of contracts are designed in sizes between three and ten buses; hence, it will be easy for them to compete with small and medium-sized enterprises and to choose to provide these services. Of the hundreds, 66% of these new contracts need ten or less buses to perform these services, and they are therefore assumed by the Italian business fabric, which is what matters to us most, small and medium-sized enterprises. These new services also translate into jobs, ladies and gentlemen, to secure and consolidate jobs. For these 100 exploitation projects which are public information, at least 1,113 drivers, where subrogation is guaranteed, and about nine hundred accompanying for these 100 exploitation projects that are public information. And, no doubt, just like before, these 2,000 jobs are one of the most important motivations to keep working, which is the most difficult thing, to implement all the new public transport lines in 2019 in Galicia. If we talk in economic terms, of these 100 contracts that we have public information, of these 100 operating projects, the turnover is 600 million euros. We're talking about 60 million euros a year for ten years, it's ten-year public service contracts, 60 million a year, of which 45 million are directly approached since the Galician Union as public service obligations. So, ingenious work, ladies and gentlemen, increasing services, multiplying territorial coverage, maintaining the philosophy of what we implemented in 2017, because we have the experience and from then on the data tested with these modes of shared transport and bus to demand, shielding schoolchildren, following the social reference clauses, a huge work in which we do not renounce to introduce from then on new measures. We've had experience that gave us the implementation of services in 2017, but we're going to incorporate more improvements. We'll take quality first, against the economic criteria. The quality will be calculated at 65% against 35%, which will be the economic criterion. We want quality, not cheaper contracts, but quality. We will also set a homogeneous rate, another improvement parameter, another improvement, a homogeneous equal rate, the single rate per kilometer equal to all Galicia, because the fact is that a user who travels ten kilometers in the Valdeorras boat must pay exactly the same as a user who travels ten kilometers in the Coruña area or ten kilometers in the Vigo area. We will also address the establishment of a single transport area in Galicia, which extends the benefits of metropolitan transport throughout Galicia; an initiative that will lead to the advantages of metropolitan transport throughout the territory of our community, throughout Galicia. Therefore, social measures that will benefit all the Greeks; the use of the TMG card, which will allow immediate discounts of 10% so that it can be used throughout Galicia; the New People's card, that card thanks to which those under 19 can use the long-distance bus for free from the first day; and also generic recurring bonuses, as the Metropolitan Transport Plan already has in metropolitan areas. For this, all operators will be required to have their canceler approved, so that the metro card works and the New People's card works. To these contracts, which we will adjudicate in August, there are also increased transport rates, i.e. monthly bonuses with limited travels, as well as 20-travel bonuses, which will account for monthly discounts of up to 75% and also those 20-travel bonuses with a 50% discount. We'll also make improvements on the nightly lines, to respond to the mobility of many Greeks, for example hospitals, their own work centres. So another improvement factor: nighttime hours adapted to the mobility and work needs of the Greeks. For example, a new line from Cangas to the bus station in Bouzas, and to the PSA center in Vigo and the free zone, matching exactly with work shifts, thus facilitating mobility so that users can go to their work. We also introduced another element of improvement: safe stops, stopped at demand at night, to promote the safety of women, children, older people and also persons with reduced mobility, at night hours. Secure stops, therefore, are another improvement element in this year 2019. In order to promote the provision of better service to users, the adjury company must have a fixed base or installation in the territory where they provide service, because, of course, the response time also matters to us, and therefore we will be primary and we will take into account that the company has a base in the territory. So we take advantage of this unique opportunity to bid all services, too, for another element of improvement: shared traffic, which is something we can design this year 2019, because, as I told you, we have no conditioner, we design an unconditional public transport plan; another improvement factor, in addition to safe stops, shared traffic, so that most of the traffic around the same corridor can be shared by different operators, because so those who win are the user and offer more possibilities of service. We therefore left behind the model of exclusive traffic, which in some cases could affect the optimal functioning of public transport. And therefore another element, in my opinion, of course, of improvement. We'll also bet on a homogeneity of the image, so that long distance buses from Galicia's Public Transport Plan can be more easily identified. It's also another improvement factor. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a package of 100 contracts that will begin to provide new services this coming August, which we have drawn public information after intense work, a titanic work, after much dialogue, of a lot of participation. We've been talking regularly to the sector, to the ANPA, to the unions, to the users, to the municipalities, and we've been going on in a continuous participatory process. And we have certainly invited their lordships to make their constructive approaches; I would like them to make constructive approaches and we can incorporate them. I want to make this extensive call to everyone so that in this period of public information we can all improve the exploitative projects, which for that is public information, public information that, as I said, ends on 1 March, and once we have analyzed and incorporated all the approaches we consider appropriate, we will bid contracts for the commencement of the service next August. In parallel, we will continue to move forward in the second block — as far as I've talked about the first block — whose public information will come out in June, the recruitment in the summer and the start of the services in December. So start services of the first block, in August; second block, start services, in December. And I'm going to finish now, gentlemen. I think I have tried to synthesize the work, planning and schedule and, of course, the objectives of the Public Transport Plan that we want to implement this year 2019 in Galicia, an ambitious, useful plan, of course participatory and also transparent, about what we want to take full account of in this Parliament of all the steps we want to take and what we are taking, in which we aim to convert this problem which is the expiration of concessions into an opportunity from now on to improve, to transform, to modernize public transport that never had Galicia and to implement it in our community. Of course it's a great challenge, an opportunity we've never had, to offer more and better services, especially in rural areas, to adapt public transport to the real demands of our neighbours and to meet the demands of the 21st century, and to accommodate all the approaches, ladies and gentlemen, all the approaches — let me insist — constructively. And, therefore, I expect them to move constructive approaches. I will listen very carefully, with great attention, so that in my next task I may be able to clarify or answer the questions I have raised. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u20	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u21	Good morning, Counselor. I don't know if you're possessed of the spirit of Columbus, you don't notice that patriotic spirit, you shouldn't have been here in Madrid this Sunday, but you've come here to sell us smoke, sell us the smoke of those words that sound very well, of the modernization, of the future, of the 21st century, this mantra that are repeating itself, but you haven't told us something that is fundamental, that what you're doing is being done by legal imperative, by a judgement of the Supreme Court, because they committed an illegality in 2010: against European legislation, they have extended the contracts for ten years, and then by these muds. Now they have to walk, hurry and run, trying to make, more than a plan, because this is not a plan, sheet and painting, make a few stops there, especially because they have the possibility of doing so with school transport and with integration, but it's not — and we deny the biggest — any public transport plan, it's not public transport. Public transport, Counselor, is much more than this. This is, at most, a road passenger transport plan, but it's not public transport, because you decided to bet on a reductionist vision and a short-sighted view, because you don't have a comprehensive and comprehensive strategy for sustainable, healthy and safe mobility, and even your commitments to make a mobility law, which was in your program, so that Galicia has a public transport system, of all transport, effective, intermodal and modern. There's nothing in rail transport here, because you've already given up, by that spirit of Columbus, claiming that Galicia has a German train, a German railway company, as they promised in 2010 and then left it in a drawer. They don't believe in these possibilities, as we don't talk about shipping, river transport, as we don't talk about anything that we've ever thought mattered to them, which is what you called alternative mobility, which even made a master plan, sustainable mobility, cyclist mobility, peonil mobility. What was that? It's hanging on the Council's website, but they spent the money, they threw it away and they didn't do anything, because that's already completely forgotten. Just like they made a sectoral plan of alternative parking, and nothing at all; money thrown into the trash. All this, which is on your website, not running and not complying, has a lot to do with public transport, not just what you just told us now. We think they're examples of an unbiased and unbiased department of mobility, Counselor, no direction, because there seems to be no one on the wheel; or, yes, there's someone on the wheel: they're private companies, Madrid consultants hired to take the course — and so on — of the Council and the mobility department. They have embedded companies -- if, yes, yes, it is so -- that they have been given the management of a fundamental public service such as public transport. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, they're going to have to pick up these staff already and turn them into fixed staff at the Council, because they're renewing their contract year after year, and it seems — I believe — that even they have headquarters in the Directorate General for Mobility. And, of course, they come to us now with a simulation... did something happen to Mrs. Prado? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you have any worries? Would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u22	No, no, don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u23	No, no, no. She interrupted me. I had nothing... [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Well, what they sell is a smoke, an empty shell, a trap to legalize what was out of the law, not more or less, Counselor. They've committed an irregularity and now they've got to solve it. And we're not going to talk to them about all the rushes and improvisation of the year 2017, because those arguments are already resuscitated and repeated. What if we saw at that time is how they had to repair, correct what was a real mess and a chapuza, because what you pulled out and they tried later didn't match anything to reality. The Town Councils stood up to war and had to restore the services they had before. That was the big plan they made in 2017. And that, in addition, after paying them EUR 800,000 in technical assistance contracts to these companies, to which they must add the company they have hired for assistance to the Directorate General in the implementation and management of the Transport Plan, a contract of EUR 84,000 in 2017 and 121,000 in 2018, a company incorporated into the Council. And with all this, there is a pseudo-plan that, of course, you said that you went through the Advisory Council, but you didn't say all the truth; you didn't say that only the members of the Administration supported it; all the representative groups of the sector and society did not support this plan — and for some reason it would — that you don't have an environmental impact study despite the fact that we're talking about public transport and that one of the objectives is to improve environmental efficiency. And they don't have the deference, when they approve the plan -- by the way, they approved it on November 29 and published it on January 17, I don't know what happened, they had to spend 50 days publishing it -- from sending it to Parliament to talk about that plan. And now they're presenting the farm projects — by the way, they fix it, if you don't mind: the deadline I think ends, according to the CEO, February 29th, not March 1st, which are bad at the bottom and the shape. These exploitation projects, indeed, Counselor, have an absolute lack of rigour. And after the millions of contracts of more than 2.5 million euros spent on these consulting companies, most of them in Madrid, who don't know the territory, who have no idea, who make a real set of service lines and routes, is that they're going to fall down a rain of allegations that I think the best thing they could do was to remove them out of shame, correct them, amend them and take them out again, because there's really no way to get them back. For one thing, there's no demand study. You're telling us here that there's a line for Citroën, and the rest? I mean, you're talking about the demand in the university system, that there's demand in the health system, that there's demand, for example, in the business parks. There's no demand study to meet that demand. What you do is a cut and paste, with many lines of them, some, which don't make sense, delete other lines that are indeed demands for the population, and they're going to rain -- I'm telling you -- the allegations in that sense; and then they put others -- I'm telling you -- they don't use anyone. The truth is that field work is bad, Counselor; I have to say so. You, in addition, put buses through places where they can't pass. Here you get from the Google Maps office and then you plot a line, this is the shortest line, but it turns out that the bus over there can't go through. That repeats itself in all contracts, not once, multiple times. I'm not going to talk about Pontevedra anymore, which you want to put the buses in the pedestrian zone. But where are we going to stop? This has no feet or heads. Nor is there a study of the economic viability of concessions. And they even have tariff proposals in some contracts that are absolutely discriminatory. And I'm no longer saying that they create lines and services according to some private school, that this is already the last one. I mean, you don't create lines for business parks, large health centers or the university system and creanlas tailored to a private school that is in the parish of Praceres. This is what demand study is? What did they ask you about private school: to put two lines on it, one from Bueu and the other from Pontevedra? Anyway. Well, all this, with these companies, six formalized contracts in July 2018; of course, they worked everywhere, because in three months they already had the plan and in another month they had the exploitation projects, and that's how those projects came out! And in addition to these six contracts, for 2.4 million euros that it took to do all this field work and these proposals, they still made another contract more than 200,000 euros for technical coordination assistance from all others. Well, there was a lot of coordination, because here are services and lines of the same county that appear in different contracts. The Soutomaior council has services of the same school in different lots, in different contracts. But what kind of fieldwork did they do? What kind of coordination work did you do here? Who did they give this to? Who supervised you? This isn't serious, Counselor. Of course, then you have the advertising coverage, because you also paid EUR 2.5 million in a contract; by the way, three contracts to the same company to advertise and advertise the Mobility and Infrastructure Council; EUR 400,000 for road safety campaigns, which are useless — I say — I say. If they really want to do road safety policy, they feel like talking to all sectors, with all administrations, and they really study what is going on — which is very serious — with sinisterness, with the increase of road deaths — in urban areas, in urban areas, in autonomics, in all. It's a really serious subject that deserves something more than an advertising campaign paid to a company. EUR 600,000 for the public transport campaign. For what?, if the rates of use of that transport to the demand and the call plant are ironic. By the way, the contract of attention, information and management of the telephone reservation system in the services provided under demand remained desert. Counsellor, who does this service? Can you tell me who's doing this desert service, because you're lending. Who does this service? I hope you give me an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u25	In short, smoke, propaganda, plate and painting, improvisation, millionaire contracts to consulting companies — mostly godmothers — that do a very bad job, that should pay back the money or ask you to do the job well. And at the bottom we're going here to the same thing that happened with ambulance contracts, the same thing, at the end of the concentration in two or three major business groups, and low-cost addictions, precarious work; now we have a strike, and we'll see what happens in public transport as well. What you demonstrate by this is your inability to really face an efficient and rational model of public transport for the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u26	Thank you, Mr Bará. Now we greet students and 5th graders from the Centre Ponte dos Brozos, from Artexo, and their teachers and companions as well. Welcome to Parliament. And now you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, too, to the pupils and students from that centre who accompany us. Well, starting by trying to do something of distraction, neither counsellor nor Mr Bará, neither on March 1st nor February 29th, because it is not leap; February 28th is when the deadline to file claims is over; in any case, it is becoming irrelevant day up and down day. Counselor, if something has become clear to us about your intervention, it's that it was an ingenious job; I think you said it about fourteen or fifteen times. I don't doubt it's a huge job. The more or less fortunate proof of that work is what you've published as an exploration project. In any case, I share some of the statements that Mr. Bara made with regard to the quality of that work. You said that in 2017 it worked thanks to public employees. I don't know if this is going to work or not, I don't know if you're going to be able to deal with all the allegations that are likely to be made. But, in any case, of what I am sure is that public officials have left aside their participation in the development of this Galician public transport plan, because you — for whatever reasons — have decided to outsource the work and to be a series of consultants, sometimes with a certain lack of knowledge of the territory and therefore with a job that, well, reality will say whether it is solvent or not for the necessity that we have to modernise — and I agree with you — public transport in this autonomous community. The figures presented in this preliminary draft, of course, are important: we speak of a hundred contracts, we speak of two thousand lines, we speak of 35,904 posts reserved for schoolchildren. And here's what I'm going to allow you to make an observation: it's worth it for you to come and sell that school squares are shielded in public transport in Galicia. Only after having transferred the full responsibility of the school transport to the Council have the necessary places to transport the schoolchildren to their respective educational centres have now been compromised! It'd be over by now. Therefore, frankly, that this is one of the kindnesses of the plan is like saying that after the day comes the night, it's an obvious thing that shouldn't even be mentioned. But, well, going to the occasion of his presence, the Galician board will be fine-tuning school transport and service contracts in the coming months. And here are two scenarios: either they can contribute to the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector or they can allow the mobility of Greeks to continue to be lent substantially by small and medium-sized enterprises. The responsibility of this government, of the Council that you preside over, will be to set a framework for the irremediable extinction of these small and medium-sized enterprises. You have referred on numerous occasions to the maintenance of jobs and the maintenance of the business fabric of the many passenger transport companies we have in the autonomous community. I think that might be an indicative factor that they have some concern, at least because of that reality and the future that we are going to see ourselves talking about, if they are going to be targeted by transport entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. If the Infrastructure and Mobility Council and the Education Council do not address in a comprehensive and coordinated way the tendering of integrated transport contracts, we will surely have a major destruction of the business fabric of that sector, and in order to avoid this it should be defined as a model of tender that guarantees sufficient budgets and prevents the creation of oligopolies. Mr Bará, who preceded me, rightly referred to the conflict we are currently having with public transport — which is also a public transport — in the case of ambulances, and as a mistaken decision in 2015 is that four years later we are faced with a reality of labour conflict, but labour conflict which is supported that workers' wage guarantees cannot be guaranteed for the cost of contracts that have been signed — I insist — four years ago. And this is a very important problem. We're talking ambulances, but now we're talking buses again. His external consultants — I say, let's go, understand, those who hired the Council — believe that, for example — we can take any contract, then I can quote more — 669, which corresponds to the municipal term of Ponteareas, envisages a depreciation of EUR 3,301 by bus and year; that is to say, in the ten years for which the concession is awarded they would recover only EUR 33,000, which I think is very far from the cost of a bus of 55 squares, whose price on the market is around EUR 200,000; and if those 200,000 we take a residual value of 20%, we are left in a quantity that obviously far from the depreciation that provides for those prayers that you have just published. Look, that's the level of differences in the stakes that you've published in various contracts that there's an average bus amortization of 3,185, 1,006, 2,400, 3,300, 840, 1,500, 1,000, 994 -- what's going on? That buses are going to cost them a different amount of business according to which lines are adjudicate? I honestly believe that you should review this deeply before continuing with the adjudication according to what you are. Perhaps with the allegations presented by small companies in the sector this was already correcting. I think the economic studies you've also referred to are wrong and can turn to what?: that certain companies of considerable size may assume the losses inherent in this model of adjudication to the detriment of other small ones who will not be able to cope with those losses and then place the Administration in a similar situation to that which the medical transport sector has put it, the ambulance sector. So this is a reality that you should carefully review before continuing with this adjudication. In 2017 you bid forty contracts, allowing a company to make a maximum of ten. That's the same thing as assuming that 25% of contracts can fall into the hands of a single company. And if this forecast is not correct for the bidding you're going to take out, we're going to face again a reality in which four companies, five, six large companies can complete the contracts that you're going to bid for, precisely because they're the only ones that can assume the capacity of economic loss during the first years of contract supervision, or that around five or six years have posed an identical situation, an identical scenario, that of the ambulance sector this year. According to our estimates — I think it is quite correct, because they come from information in the sector as well — there are the order of 300 lines of school transport that could theoretically disappear. And why? Because in the event that school transport is not lawful this year — and therefore almost half of public transport can remain in the hands of these small and medium-sized enterprises — the truth is that the risk is increased by that tender which we believe will be in two phases. And, therefore, that the choice of contracts that are being concluded this year and those that will be awarded education in the next year do not follow rational planning is obvious, and that many companies that lose part of their contracts this year can see their commitment to 2020 as well. And why is that? Because the Board has delegated responsibility for the model of transport of Galician mobility to external consultants, who do not have a political line marked from an executive characterized by its bureaucratic and purely accounting character, an administration that does not show a clear idea of the country or an ambition to lead this opportunity to improve mobility and lay the foundations for a transit of operators towards a future where collective and sustainable mobility must prevail in our society. We believe that the Union should assume that it will be responsible for creating an oligopolie situation if they do not put the limits on that part of the Greek transport market auctioned by any public administration that can absorb a company or group of companies. In the end, Madam Counsellor — and I will finish — if the public administrations already intervene in the market to prevent mergers and acquisitions of companies which reduce competition on the market through oligopolies, with much greater reason administrations should be belligerent on this issue when the market has a majority public component such as school transport in Galicia. While the European Union's recruitment directives and the current text of the Public Sector Contracts Act expressly envisage the possibility of limiting the number of lots to which operators are present, or of lots to which they are assisted, you should consider that the limitation model will be put when these contracts are made so that these hundreds of small businesses, in many family cases, can continue to live in our autonomous community, can continue to maintain the jobs that are currently being carried out in the transports of both travellers and in school transport. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u28	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Now we greet the students and students of the CIFP Porta da Water, of Ribadeo, who are students of the middle cycle of Administrative Management and the superior of Administration and Finance. Welcome to Parliament. Now if you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u29	Good morning to all of you. Today, in Madrid, the trial begins for eight prisoners and political prisoners for defending their ideas democratically, they judge us for wanting people to vote. And, of course, as I don't want to live in a country, I don't want to live in this state where people can be judged, where we can be judged to defend our ideas democratically, goes all my solidarity with them. [[Applause]] We hope the sentence isn't written in advance. Well, Counselor, to begin with, since you made an appeal to be constructive, to be constructive, I'm always constructive. What I can't tell you is that it's okay when I see it's wrong. Three questions, to see if you answer me and we create a constructive climate. It says the kilometers are increased by 37%. Come here and say how much budget increases, because, so we've studied, what you do is cut budget. You speak of a 25% limit in the first phase of transport. And does that mean there can be four companies that cover all the transport in Galicia? What's the limit that's going to be fixed? Only 40 concessions were required to bid now, since they were the ones that were renewed in 2017. Why are you 100? What was the criterion you followed? Well, I hope you've pointed them and I hope you answer them and don't do them as usual, you don't answer them. You were talking about opportunity, we also thought it was an opportunity, an opportunity that didn't come from the forecast of the Government of Galicia, which was from 2009 to 2016 without doing anything, without predicting, without planning and without working on the future of public transport in Galicia. But there was a judgement by the Supreme Court in March 2016 that took 129 concessions that you irregularly renewed, violating the European regulation. And then he started the career of obstacles, a career that was characterized by the continuing improvisation of locks and ravines and an important administrative chaos. But there was a chance, it was defined starting from zero the Galician Transport Map. But we believe it was an opportunity lost by that chaotic pre-trial where it was already done, implementing a first phase before the Galician transport plan was approved, that is, starting home by the roof. First, line integration and rearrangement measures are implemented and then a workplan is approved, which is the planner tool for then bidding those lines. The world in reverse, Counselor. You said it was an unacceptable decision, but you really broke the law that you passed here with your absolute majority. The law stated, in Article 2.3, that they were twenty-one months old for having approved the Public Transport Plan of Galicia since the entry into force of that law, and that period was April 2018. And when did you pass it? End of 2018. They broke her. But in addition, it's a loss of opportunity, Counselor, because it's sick of several eels. First, participation, insufficient participation. You speak in the document of the Galician Public Transport Plan that this pre-processing point of the Galician Public Transport Plan and its core document was subjected to a process of public participation through which the whole of the Galician society presented its suggestions. How many suggestions were presented, Counselor? Where's that information so we can see it? Where is the memory of the participation of that process, Counselor? There wasn't, there was a very insufficient participation. It was a missed opportunity to articulate the country. The law gave the possibility of grouping the municipalities to get the right scale for the design, but also for later management. There are municipalities that by their size and financial possibilities have no capacity to have personnel specialized in transport management, fundamental to controlling business activity, on a very complex subject. You didn't make any effort or a line to try to get the municipalities to group together, nor the metropolitan scale, whose treatment is insufficient, nor in rural at comarcal scale; zero initiatives in that regard. So a missed opportunity. But a missed opportunity for the restructuring of the sector, for the restructuring of those companies that have to give them viability over the next ten decades. They didn't make any effort to help companies get together too, to have a dimension to deal with the threat there is, aided by their policies, of the oligopolie of certain companies that can eat small fish. They've done nothing and you're here to brag -- then I'll talk about that -- about that minifundism. There's also been a hit-and-run invitation to tender that produces technical errors, technical errors, counsellor's lady, very serious, very serious. And we're going to talk about that dimension of the business sector, and that's why I told you the limit, the oligopolie, and that's why I called it business restructuring. Look, out of the 100 pre-projects presented, there are only three that pass from 30 buses, 2 from 32 and 1 from 33, counting the reserve buses. 56% of the projects include 10 buses, with reservations, or less; in fact there are 10 with 10.8 with 9.9 with 8.11 with 7.5 with 6.8 with 5 and 5 with 4. Do you think maintaining this is a good policy for the future of workers in this sector? No, no, no, no. We think he had to make an effort to restructure the sector. Because other evil effects are also produced, which is also the increase in financial immobilization for companies but also for the Galician Union, because in concessions that are entitled to compensation —97 out of 100 — compensation for public service obligations incorporates depreciations, as it could not be otherwise. You've just joined and regulated the existing school services and added some local services that the municipalities asked for. But that's not a transport plan, Counselor. Let me give you an example: Ferrón, Narón, Fene and Neda have needed a circular line for many years that connects the four municipalities and has been widely demanded. It's not present in the pre-project. As I said before, more than half of the projects were not required by law to be contracted on this date. Why were 100 projects made, not 40 2017? Darkness, Counselor. I have here the plugs of a transportation plan from the Valencian Generalitat, and I'm going to tell you why, first, you're sick of opacity and, after that, where are the mistakes that you have in the depreciations and cost calculations in general. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a document.]] Costs of depreciation — said the Valencian document. The conditions set for the technical depreciation of investments are as follows: linear amortization to ten years for renewed and linear material due to the difference between ten years of asset seniority to the reference date, for the subrogation in case of circumstances. For the purposes of calculation, it shall cease the acquisition of the new fleet, irrespective of whether it is established in accordance with the requirement for business transmission agreements of immobiliser, materiel and new contracts. Mobile material investment is estimated from the following parameters — and provides a parameter ratio. What does this amortization consultant project do? A paragraph that says: "is the sum of the annual cost of depreciation of the different elements employed by the operation of the service, vehicles and auxiliary equipment". That's what you say about amortization. This is opacity. You could say the same thing about the calculation of energy and the calculation of staff costs, which, by the way, gives us an average per driver of EUR 18,000, when here in Valencia is EUR 36,000, Counsellor, which should be embarrassing to you. And, therefore, with this opacity and obscurantism, it's no wonder that afterwards there are also mistakes; you prefer to hide them behind that opacity. Mistakes, I'm running out of time. We made every effort to put together all the pre-project data in a single document, something we wouldn't have had to do if your department had done so to help the citizenry and the sectors involved to understand the information, Counsellor. But we did it. And palpable mistakes in a first visual. There are 98 lines in stops, there are 183 lines in expeditions; the total number of lines analyzed was 1.887. There are 351 stops in lines, there are over 800 stops in positioning back, there are over 600 stops with the same positioning with codes or names or different codes and names; the total number of stops analysed was 24,000. There are almost 300 expeditions without weekly frequency identifier, 58 without day type identifier, etc., etc. And this is the result of working as you did. There are 2,300 expeditions with the same calendar, weekly frequency, type of day and annual season and which do not coincide in the calculation of circulation per year. There are 477 expeditions with an average speed of less than 11 kilometers per hour, Counselor, less than 11 kilometers per hour. So this is the result of working as you do. Finally, Counselor, constructively, you told me only the three questions I asked you at first. And I'm telling you, a missed opportunity. Let's say again: leave this, Counselor, paralyze this procedure, listen to people, listen to the sector, and once and for all we make the public transport plan this country deserves for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Madam Counsellor, good morning and thank you very much for your attendance at your own request to inform this House of the progress of the road transport plan of Galicia. And thank you very much, too, for your efforts from the Council to transfer information from this plan, not only to this House, but also to the whole of society, especially to the sector and related entities: ANPA, users, municipalities, etc. This is transparency: tell the sectors and work with them. Mr. Sánchez, this is now the public exhibition, these first 100 service exploitation projects to be launched in August. It's important that you have this publicity and transparency so that citizens, administrations know it, and you can make claims. And, Mr Bará, if there are allegations, better, if what we want is that it's a better plan, and for that it exposes itself, it exposes itself for people to know and contribute and improve. Let us hope that something will be done by the groups beyond these criticisms and make concrete contributions. And also thank you, Counselor, you and your team, for the enormous and excellent work that has been done in this field in this legislation, surely one of the most difficult in the administration, especially given the Greek reality and the location of the population in Galicia, which is hardly like Valencia, by the way. As the Counsellor has just said, we are debating a topic of enormous transcendence and importance for Galicia, a tool that is key to the structuring of the territory, to equate opportunities between citizens and to facilitate the development of the country, especially the rural environment; an effort in transport policies that will mean improved quality of life for the Greeks, to minimize one of the main problems of 21st-century societies such as mobility, to improve the fight against climate change and to facilitate social inclusion and equal opportunities. But the truth is that one again listens to the opposition and I think they follow in the same destructive position of 2017; and thank God that, as troublemakers, they have little future; thanks for not fulfilling their 2017 premonitions, that the world would fall; as we saw, quite the contrary. And I anticipate that they're going to have the same success with these prognosis they're doing now, again another failure like the 2017 aggrievers, they've made a mistake with their tails. Fortunately, the first phase of transport was a success and was generally implemented and this service improved. I'd ask them to be constructive, to contribute and to have a country view. They've got another chance now. In 2017 they didn't take advantage of it, they stood on the side of blackmail from companies and now, listening to them, they've spent 80% of the time defending companies, the PSOE 100 percent, as a good socialist; I love to see the left in this position to defend companies. The Council talks about citizens, talks about services, talks about schoolchildren and talks about Galicia. This is the difference. And I hope they don't get side by side with companies and get side with the citizens, the service, the quality of life and Galicia. Because we've seen what happened in 2017: a strike — which I hope, Mr Bará, of his words, that he was not calling again — of a basic service, comparing it with the issue of ambulances. [[Murmurs.]] I know they don't like it, they laugh, they make faces, but it was guaranteed that Galicia didn't run out of transport for a single day. It seems they don't like it, but I'm sorry, it was, not a single day; I'm sorry, they have to listen to it again. That experience was tough but it allowed them, it allowed the Council to take a lot of experience and above all to test some of the new services and some of the new proposals that are now confirmed in this new phase of the plan. I think it's generalized the satisfaction of citizens. She was talking about the three avalanche, but I think the data is obvious — she also said — that services have been expanded and improved, especially in rural areas, with new models of transport to demand and share, given areas where there was no transport before, 800 new lines, duplicated the lines and tripled the stops. And this has been done by lowering the rates — important theme — with lower prices in almost every line. Increase of 37% of the kilometres traveled. He kept his job, despite what you said, and demanded the subrogation as well. And improved information, transparency, security, etc., etc., etc. I want to repeat it, because it seems that only the depreciation of companies doesn't know what: this was very good for Galicia, especially for rural people, and it has improved all this. Mr Sánchez said that since 2009 nothing has been done. Since 2009, there have been vigorous concessions that had to be respected and worked on the improvement of those existing concessions. That's what's been done since 2009. There were existing concessions, because here we are a responsible government, not the Mareas government, which say when they're trying to reach the Government that they're going to municipalize everything, that they're going to end the concessions, and four years later, none. Because if there are concessions, they must be respected. And that's what was done during those years, Mr. Sánchez. But it starts to tell history in 2007, which always starts in 2009; it's in 2007 when you changed European legislation and two years of Bipartite looking elsewhere, because you weren't interested. That's what we have to tell you, too. And when the government arrived in 2009, it had to pass an emergency law, because they didn't do anything in those two years, and now, over these eight years, they've improved existing services with concession. You continue to defend companies, we will continue to defend citizens. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, the Counsellor spoke of three steps: the experience of this first phase, the acceptance of the citizen and the satisfaction and the data and the results. I dare you, Counsellor — excuse me — to incorporate an downstream room, which is that of the budgets, Mr. Sánchez. And these are the best way a government speaks, with budgets. The Council in 2017 was the one that went up most throughout the Union, and this program too, and in 2018 it went up, and in 2019 it went up on what it went up, and it continues to increase those dates and has the necessary budgets to implement and incorporate not only these measures but one of the President's commitments, as it was, in the debate of the state of Autonomy, to extend the advantages of the Metropolitan Transport Plan to all of Galicia, too in rural areas. Here are the money, the budgets are approved — not like those who want to approve you — at the Junta. And this budget and this new plan will allow us to go back to hiring all the lines, planning and modernizing all of Galicia's, having higher territorial coverage, more lines to demand, more shared transport, reaching up to 55% at the end of the year, guaranteeing jobs — not only the depreciation of businesses—, a homogeneous rate per kilometre to match all citizens in Galicia, bonuses for the most frequent users, improvements in hours — including nights —, safer stops, shared traffic and a system of bidding that will allow small and medium-sized businesses to be competitive, the difference between other autonomous communities you and others who have been concentrated in one contract, where you rule the left. But, of course, the parties that criticize this public transport plan are the ones that in governments where they rule do nothing or even prevent the measures they want to implement in metropolitan transport to the Union — I will, Mr Losada, do not worry — as you do — let me talk about it — the mayor of the Coruña, of the Tides, who has stopped the penetration of metropolitan transport for two years, because they would generate — other troublemakers — I do not know how many problems. Now, a few months later, almost a year, on some lines people have full satisfaction and the increase in users is obvious. So let's at least stop putting up jobs where they rule and leave the others. And look, gentlemen of the BNG, it's too bad that Mrs. Pontón isn't here. The truth is, she criticizes others, but I'd like to explain to her that I don't know why they want more competences if they don't apply BNG's skills. In Pontevedra it has competences for public transport and zero scrap; competences, zero. To see Mrs. Pontón, who has so much competence, apply those of the Council of Pontevedra. But not only do they put the transport in Pontevedra, but they don't incorporate themselves into what neighbors ask them to do a metropolitan transport, even when Poios are of the same political colour. But no, we must stop the Union, as in the Coruña, that we must stop them. The Socialist Party -- let's not say, Mr. Losada, well, that everything comes to pass -- of course, he boots dynamite to transport in Vigo just because he doesn't join the metropolitan transport. [[Murmurs.]] It's a shame those cities don't incorporate gratuitousness, as did Junta in her transport too. You can do these things in public transport, but it doesn't matter. But, of course, in Ferrol we wait for transport, with Tides; in Pontevedra, the same; where the Socialist Party governs, anything less to help; we must continue with that sophistication of "Tunta against Vigo."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u33	No, Junta's trying to implement this public transport, but it's the Town Hall that doesn't let her. We are therefore faced with an excellent opportunity, taken advantage of, Mr Sánchez — a very bad one — taken advantage of, and the data are obvious. We now have the opportunity to continue to extend and improve this opportunity, already incorporating and broadening many of the previously tested experiences. What we ask them to do is to be constructive once...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u35	...that incorporate some idea into this plan. And, Counsellor, you know that since the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party in Galicia we will be supporting and continuing to build Galicia, thinking of citizens, not in particular interests or partisans.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u36	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Replica, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that surprises me is that you fall back into the same mistakes, tripping into the same stone as they did in 2017, the same mistakes, the same data that are not true, that are false, I have to say totally false, that clearly show no proposals, lack of ideas, of course arguments, totally, I have to say empty, so of course. That's the big difference. We have the experience of 2017 and we have results of course, that false arguments don't collide, they don't match the arguments that you've brought here, which I'm really surprised they stumble on the same stone as in 2017. I well remember the year 2017, well I remember: social alarm, defeat, monopoly, and we working, the hard way. Yes, yes, Mr Bará. They predicted the evils, the evils, the undoing, all this was a disaster... I read textually: "they're going to cause a defeat in jobs, a defeat in the form of precariousness and temporality in employment, destruction of business fabric and concentration of business in large companies, they're going towards monopoly." Lord Barah said, yes, yes; yes, yes. It's been wrong. It's wrong. It's wrong. It's full. It's wrong, Mr. Bará. Neither defeats nor monopolies nor layoffs, nothing of what you wanted to predict. Yes, it would be if I had listened to you, who asked me here in this rostrum to violate the law. [[Applause]] He asked me to break the law, he clearly asked me to leave Galicia without transport. That's what you did here in 2017. So here the Government of Greece defends the interests of the Greeks. And the job, of course it is. And time — time in time — is what gives us reason. So we're going the right way. Mr Bará, at the Galego Transport Council, not one vote against, not one vote against! This can't be taken for granted. And they're talking about errors in pre-exploitation projects. Well, I insist again that the easy, of course, is to do nothing, as others do — I will go deep. In 2017 they spoke of defeat: all fatal, most fatal, fatal... and none of that happened. We did, palm by hand, analyzing with a very intense fieldwork, interviews and allegations with great complexity — that for this is the public information — and the truth is, in all the public information of this time, none of you have ever arrived! And public information I understand, Mr. Sánchez, that they are a participatory process, I say that they are participatory processes. Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Álvarez have spoken here for amortization. Of course, it's a shame again that, instead of bringing me worries from users, I get worries from companies. But are you representatives of the employer? But what worries is the amortization of a vehicle? Of course it's different from depreciation on each line, of course. We pay a mile. A bus doesn't have to pay 100 percent, because companies also use buses for private jobs. Please note. So here I don't get arguments from private companies; they bring me arguments from users about the needs of schedules and frequencies, and not business arguments. [[Applause]] They're talking about public spending, about increasing public spending. More public spending! It's another business argument! I understand that when I sit with the employer and the federations, of course they tell me by default that more money. But where is the efficiency of public resources? Where's the transport logistics? Business profitability or social profitability? Shouldn't we take out the hundreds of millions of euros that we spend — no, we spend — on school transportation to offer our children first-class transport? What do we have to pay for public expenses for empty buses? What efficiency is that? What's that responsibility? What transport logistics is that? So I insist again that I am very surprised that they fall back on the same stone again and again. False arguments, wrong arguments, empty arguments. I insist again: the easy thing is not to do anything; we could do nothing, as the tides of the Coruña do. They said they were going to change all the urban bus lines and, in four years, nothing, zero. It's easy not to do anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] BNG also in Pontevedra. It's your legal obligation! That's how we're gonna do it! I feel they're upset, but it's just that urban public transport is municipal competition: Law of local regime bases, gentlemen. Santiago no 2017: new map of lines to deploy now; we still don't know anything, because it's easy not to do anything. And in Andalusia or the Socialist Party? Grants expired in 2012. [[Murmurs.]] Six years in a row! They've been participating for six years with the concessions expired in Andalusia. Look and you'll see that nothing did the PSOE of Andalucía when in 2012 the concessions expired, and they've been messing up for six years and turning, at best, the papers. Thus, public transport has expired. We're not going to let public service lapse, because we don't want public transport to be in danger. Galicia doesn't want a day off. We'll keep the job and increase the job even more. In 2017 we did it with thirty-three percent more companions, and now we have a hundred new farm contracts, two thousand lines, over a hundred drivers, escorts... so those arguments that used job destruction, monopoly, defeat... I think time has made it clear. Also since 2017, we have been able to expand territorial coverage, transport to demand and shared transport, of which they also had doubts; they had doubts at all, everything is a failure. Leo: "What's wrong is that kids get into regular transportation with a card to identify themselves, because then those who dominate aren't school transportation, who have rights aren't children, they're older people." Which card? I read textually Mr Raúl Fernández of the PSOE in 2017. What were you talking about? Another argument over that in 2017 they used to say things without way. And reality is imposed: armored children, armoured schoolchildren because they are sacred, unaffected shared transport, three hundred thousand users of shared transport with full normality and not a single incidence. I have to say it's a success because it benefits; the data are evaluated by the opinion of the users who bet on this modality, and the mayors don't stop asking me to implement this modality in each of the municipalities. The rural mayors don't stop asking... yes, of course, you're also mayor of other parties, not just of the party that this camera holds. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Also, as a paradigmatic example, in the province of Ourense we will deploy the shared transport throughout the province, except in the city. And I insist again: I think the doubts must already be completely dissipated with all the work tested, because there is full normality and zero incidences on the shared bus. Mr. Sánchez, you, also in 2017, said, "Good for companies to cut out." You told me in 2017. Do companies get cut out? We're in general interest, but don't you see what we did in 2017? So, of course, for companies to get cut, at all. We look out for the general interest, for the interests of the Greeks and for good public transport; we see for the future. And there's the data, I insist again, because they were all talking to me about monopolies, companies and big cuts. But who put the limitation of contracts to be awarded by each company? Who set the limit? This side of Galicia. Look at the 2017 data: companies were small and medium-sized and in UTE, 60 percent of contracts awarded in 2017 were small and medium-sized companies, either alone or in UTE. So check your data and don't talk to me about monopoly when it's not like that. Totally false argument. [[Applause]] In the new concessions of the year 2019 we will of course continue to promote the UTEs and small and medium-sized enterprises, and also limit the number of maximum contracts to be awarded. And another evidence that we're looking at small and medium-sized enterprises: 60 percent of contracts that are subject to public information are less than ten buses. And we can talk here too much -- allow me to express myself -- fake news, which is what you are constantly launching, followed by spreading false themes. Like it's not participative or dialogueal? That's what Mr. Sanchez said. Not at all, a lot of participation already before and also now, with surveys, interviews, analyzing the demand action centers. More falsehoods, Mr. Sánchez: the Ferrol-Fene line. It's in A4, I can have it in A3; maybe in A4 it doesn't look good, in A3 it might look good. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Please! The Fene-Ferrol line is in the exploitation projects that are subject to public information. So check the operating projects, which are the lines; check well. So it's a huge job we're doing with all the municipalities. We had interviews with all the municipalities that wanted — except that of Vigo, who did not want to participate — analyzing the demand action centres in detail, with close to a thousand consultations that we did to the demand action centres, with inquiries to the citizens — twenty-five thousand users to whom we investigated. So, in the face of disaster, in the face of noise, in the face of the disaster that you want to throw... of course, nothing to do with what was done in 2017, with what happened after and what we are doing now. And here's the data: three out of every four citizens of the polls are in favour of services to the demand of the shared bus. In the case of the municipalities, eighty percent is in favour of the shared bus. We had meetings with all the social agents and, of course, with the ANPA. I have to tell them they're neither serious nor strict, not even fair. Of course, empty falsehoods and proposals without any content. Well, we're working and, as I said, there are, of course, improvements that you don't say. There are new connections to different work centres and teaching centers; the creation of new lines such as the Cebreiro Courel-Pedrafita, and new lines to get closer to the demand action centers, also with maximum participation and dialogue. If I may, I would like you to preach with the example, because, of course, they speak and speak, and the easy thing is to criticize; the hard thing is to work and do new things, to improve. So I'd like you to preach with the example, because where you rule, no duties, no improvements. Because the councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra, which have the legal obligation — Law of local regime bases — to implement the urban bus, nothing. I would ask them to preach with the example. Of course, it contrasts that attitude with the effort we are making, and since the Galician Union we are not willing to leave behind the neighbours of Pontevedra or Ferrol. The Councils of Ferrol and Pontevedra should comply with their obligations, but the Council of Galicia is not going to leave these neighbours without service. They will be provided for in our projects of exploitation of these services, but of course we reserve the right to that overcharge for the municipal inaction of the Council of Pontevedra and the Council of Ferrol, and to which the responsibility of them is reflected, the financing of these services: EUR 4.5 million a year in the area of Pontevedra and EUR five million in the area of Ferro in the projects of exploitation of the Union of Galicia. We'd like Pontevedra and Ferrol to assume their legal obligation to provide an urban service. As always, once again — which I have already said here — do as I say, but don't do what I do. That's your motto, gentlemen. Of course it's amazing when I hear Mr Bará, with whom it was Pontevedra... and then Ferrol's BNG, you know what Ferrol's BNG says? Let the Ferrol Town Hall implement urban transport. Look what a paradox! Therefore, I believe that Pontevedra does not obligate his responsibility. A few months ago — a unique interpretation throughout Spain of the Pontevedra Council — said that he had no competence in transport in rural areas; a unique interpretation throughout Spain. All Spanish municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants must be fools. But then they change their mind: oh, yes, the rural must be us, we'll put a transport on demand with taxis. You change your mind as a sham, but the law is the same. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think they're legitimized to teach lessons. I hope, of course, that the allegations and observations are constructive, because I think we're here, the public officials, to build and not to say falsehoods or to talk about outcomes and social alarm when it's not. They don't ask me to violate the law again, they've already asked me in 2017. We're not going to break the law, we're going to improve the services because that's our goal: to work for useful, sustainable transport, economically viable and to have a future. And I insist again: I wait for their constructive approaches. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u38	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u39	Let's hear it! Tell us the People's Party that we're on business side. Look: I haven't been sent any bottle of Vega Sicilia; you know very much about it. You know a lot about that; yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm very glad you're talking about Pontevedra, you don't know how glad I am, Counselor, because I have here a letter sent you to the mayor of Pontevedra almost a year ago, and we're waiting for his answer. Here he proposed a serious and rigorous work of institutional cooperation to make a bilateral technical commission, then to make a table with the participation of all social entities and all industry agents to really study comprehensive reform and real transport for the twenty-first century. [[Mr Bará Torres shows you a document to the members of the House.]] We don't accept as valid that we want to impose that inappropriate metropolitan transport, which is a model of the 19th century or the 20th century, but it doesn't apply to the 21st century. So the Council of Pontevedra made a proposal to you and we are waiting for your answer. And the Pontevedra Council is not saying that it doesn't have to provide rural service, is that it presented a project to be financed from European funds in 2015 to establish transport on demand, which will be applied now because it is the calendar we made at that time, and in which a game financed by European funds will be invested. So, the Pontevedra Town Hall is working, in addition, on a system of transport to demand which is much more advanced than you have, which cannot be called such; in any case, it is a reservation system. And, of course, you've been trying for years to put the issue of public transport into the election campaign in Pontevedra and it doesn't work for them, People's Party gentlemen, Counsellor, it doesn't work for you! Did you see the last survey that came out this Sunday? Two less. They're even missing Mr. Moreira — who was the previous candidate — because they're headed for the debacle! That's the total sinking, so -- I don't know -- they're still there, because the result, from what you see, is wonderful, the result is wonderful! Look, you said we wanted you to commit illegality. But what are you saying? If you were the ones who broke the law in 2010. There was a Supreme Court ruling that put that deal down and from there came all the rushes, all the improvisations, all the chaps that are presenting to us. It was a sentence. You could use the obligation to provide the public service and continue with these concessions until the new contracts were with the companies that resigned. You could do it perfectly, there was that legal possibility; you shouldn't leave Galicia without a bus. No way, Counselor, don't come to us with that argument because it's not from receipt, it's not serious; you have more rigour, or you should have more rigour than that. And now they also come with the novelty of the shared bus. Well, look: Tes+Bus already existed in 2007. Don't! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You guys, when they got to the government, they paralyzed them! The lines still exist, but you paralyze them for eight years; it could already be implanted and now they come with this as innovation. It was already under way — and in addition in a progressive way — in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and you stopped it, as well as the Nightbus, and now they're talking about night services. Are they gonna get the night bus back? [[Murmurs.]] No, I can see you're not. Look, Counselor, you talk to us here about a thousand jobs of drivers and drivers and nine hundred escorts, but talk to us about wages, talk to us about working conditions. Because in 2009 Mr. Feijóo said they would secure five thousand jobs with the new system in Galicia in the coming decades. They also said so, what's that worth? These are advertisements for the gallery that are of no use. The reality is that this process is going to lead to the concentration of the sector, to the reduction of costs, to lower rates and to precaution. And we know what happened to the experiment you're following: ambulance contracts; we see what's going on now, Counsellor. As for farm projects, we made it clear: there's nowhere to take them. It's just that they cost more than 2.5 million euros and they have a lot of errors: they don't have cost studies, there's no demand studies, there's no line rearrangement -- what's a cut and paste and, at most, a color. This isn't even worth a career job of a university degree, Counsellor. It's not serious that they present this to us and post it in the DOG, take it away! They have to take it off because it's not serious, it's not good. Finally, we are faced with a process that is absolutely lacking in rigour, lack of participation and lack of transparency. They have to do things right, they have to take it back and bring us something serious that actually serves to make a contest that responds to operational needs, that reorganizes and restructures lines, that meets the demands of municipalities and all social agents and that allows us to work on something much more serious — and more important too — and that you are not doing — even though they have promised it —: a law of sustainable mobility and a strategy — indeed — Welsh for sustainable mobility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u40	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u41	...healthy and safe for the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u42	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u43	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, with regard to that law of sustainable mobility, the People's Party will have an opportunity to stand up because our group registered a non-law proposal a few days ago for a sustainable mobility law, which was, by the way, in the election program of the People's Party in 2016. Allow me, Counsellor, to say a few brief words to Mr. Fernández Prado because, of course, when you hear that the Socialist Party in Galicia stands on the side of the companies instead of on the side of the users, at least it draws attention, because, if we apply an analogous reasoning, you seem to be on the side of the oligopolies, and that is what they are, not small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause]] Look: there is an obvious reality, which is the different degree of satisfaction that users experience when the service is provided by a small and medium-sized company or by a large company, which has different criteria; firstly, to begin with, in the working conditions of its employees. So let us defend — to make it clear to you, Mr Prado — first of all, the quality of the service, and, secondly, the maintenance of small businesses, of course, yes! From small businesses, because they usually do a job -- I insist -- in conditions that I'm going to qualify as different. Do you know what concerns you, Mr. Fernández Prado? Do you know what concerns the Counsellor's Lady, too? The municipal elections! Not the Galician Public Transport Plan, not what's going to happen now, not what's in public information. You see your speeches: they came to talk about Vigo, they came to talk about Ferrol -- I don't know why they didn't talk about Ferrol before the current mayor you have, I don't know why you didn't talk about it -- they came to talk about Pontevedra... they came to talk about local issues and put on the loose the management of mayors where you don't rule. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, tell you that the amortization frames are correct because with the buses that are to be used for those lines, they also do private services. Well, do you mean that there are 1,191 buses that will be circulated daily by this autonomous community by doing private services other than the concessions they will be bought for — or bought, as the case may be — once they are put to work? Is that what you're telling me? That is to say, as private services do most of the time, when nearly 80 percent — some cases — of financing for depreciation, now it turns out that 80 percent is paid off by the private services they do. No, reasoning seems pretty simple. If your argument is that they do private services, then with those private services they cover the difference in the amortization boxes. Look, just because I don't have time to expose all the figures we've been studying, I agree with Mr. Sánchez: if you had some transparency will, they would put the data in a much more accessible and global way so you can analyze them in a global way too, which can be done after many hours of work to group the information that is properly placed on each of the nails. I do not doubt that, but — I insist — they should facilitate public information. For example — I repeat — the differences in the amortization boxes: lot 647 has an average bus amortization average of 3,185, and lot 670 has an average bus amortization average of 840 euros, i.e. almost four times less. Are they so efficient? Do you know so much about the territory of those consultants who know that, using their own argument, the buses of that first batch, of 647, need to be more amortized because they're going to do less private services? Or is this a debacle from the point of view of budget planning and the paintings in those prayers? You said that before, and you quoted a few words from my colleague Raúl Fernández — who is not in the debate and therefore cannot defend himself from his assertions — but the fact is that in 2017 — your country — the lines began to work because it was the companies that took the fuck out of them that you had assembled and that they didn't know how to get out of it. So Mr. Raúl Fernández was not when he said what he said. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, therefore, in order to finish — I insist — we intend to be constructive, we intend to make them reflect on how these contracts will affect you and how they will limit the possibilities of adjudication; and, above all, they really review whether the economic frameworks that have in prayers will fit the possibilities of small and medium-sized enterprises to choose to be adjudicators of those lines, as they are conceived from an economic and financial point of view at the moment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u44	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u45	Counsellor, when there are no arguments, you always resort to dequalification and demagogy, when you have no arguments. As I asked you three very clear and very specific questions and you can't answer, so you have to go through the branches and disqualify the opposition, with disqualifications like we work for companies. It goes on, because there's a lot of credibility when a People's Party representative tells us to defend companies; a party condemned for corruption, a party that received gifts from groups that later received transport concessions. Go on, you have a lot of credibility with those arguments. But it's also demagoxy, look, it's demagoxy. I know that you can't really talk to you or you can't establish a constructive dialogue; no, because you don't come here to say arguments. Look: I'm going to tell you why it's inducing a bad calculation of low-cost depreciation, poor low-cost calculation of low-cost staff or poor-cost calculation of low-cost energy when bidding for concessions. Look: when there is a company that opts for a batch of five buses -- like those there are -- which is a small company of a gentleman who has his social and fiscal location at home, the difference between well-calculated or ill-calculated depreciations is whether he has to give up or not that concession because he doesn't give it to survive, Counselor. And you know that, of the 300 companies in this country, many of them are in that case, and when you're counting down the costs, you're condemning poverty. What you said is demagogy, because that's most of the cases; then, of course, it's important. Mr. Fernández Prado, of course Valencia is different than Galicia and Castela and León — their model — too, of course! But the accounting plan in Galicia and Valencia doesn't have to be different, does it? And they're not the same for a person who wants to offer or participate in the bidding these prayers, where exactly what are the criteria for calculating depreciations, what are the criteria for calculating staff costs, and they're set black on white, which when you put a paragraph like what you put here, which says that "is the sum of the annual cost of depreciation of the different elements used for the operation of the service." [[Mr. Sánchez García shows you a document to the members of the House.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García shows you a document to the members of the House.]] This is BUP's first, right? It's not the same! Of course, the same thing is demagogic to say that we care about this for companies, when in Valencia the average cost per driver is thirty-six thousand euros and the average cost of the staff here, in this proposal, is 18 billion euros. Isn't it very different for a worker who has one or another reality? That's what we're talking about, and the rest are demagogy and disqualifications. Three questions, Counsellor: Why reduce the budget? Why is this the Transport Crop Plan in Transport? Why? And if not, come here and deny it and give the figures, but don't say no, go up. No, no, say the numbers! For it is cut; it is the plan of the cuts. And you were talking about 2017. I ask you, what limit will you set? The same as in 2017? Look: in 2017 there was a company that took twelve lots of forty. Do you know how much that is? Thirty percent. If we follow that line, four companies can do with the whole country, right, Counselor? Because it was like this: twelve lots for Monbus in 2017, the one that sent the Vega Sicilia, right? And I don't say it has anything to do with it, but it does. So is it going to be the same limit? Yes or no, Counselor? Why are a hundred lots now being auctioned within that totally crazy procedure that you're carrying? Why now a hundred lots and forty in July, Counselor? What is the criterion you followed to now include 100 and then 40? That's three questions. That's not that much to say. And of the false arguments, look: in 2017 it was a real disaster. Do you know what happened in most of the municipalities? There were complaints that they moved him to the council, that the general address was overrun, and they said, "Real with the companies." And in most cases they went back to the previous situation of their bid. That's what happened. Then you talk about participation. All right, what you say is my word against yours, but it wouldn't be so if you had a memory of participation where you had attached what meetings you had, what dates and with what people. Or when instead of saying "suxions," they came here and said "this suggestions," right? Because so we could quantify and target the arguments. And then Fene-Ferrol's is already a lot. Look, I told you a circular line Ferrol-Neda-Fene-Narron, not a line Fene-Ferrol: so don't confuse and don't try to confuse. And then, Counselor, when you want to be serious, we talk. You can't come here to disqualify when I saw you bring data from the errors, from the errors that these projects have, which are major errors from a consultant who has entered into a million-year contract. Because you come here to assume the work of the council, but here who worked was the consultants. And the consultants paid millions, and you can't afford a Madrid consultant to charge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u47	...thousands of the Greek public era have huge errors like the ones I mentioned before and you didn't come here to lie. Several, huh? I've read him up to fifteen big errors, and you can't lie because he is. You can't afford that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u49	Public participation and people's allegations are not about correcting the technical work that you have to do, which not only hire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u51	...thousands of consultants, but they don't have the ability, within the board, to control the technical work of these consultants. That's another one you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u52	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. They ask the three groups to withdraw the plan. What do you want? Like in 2017, do you ask again for the same? Shall we return to the same things? What's left of people without transportation? What do you want, that we extend concessions with extrajudicial concessions, as you do in Coruña with all contracts the Tripartite of Coruña? No, you have to bid because these concessions are exhausted. We can't withdraw the plan and leave people without transportation. Stop predicting the end of the world, stop predicting the end of the world! The tripartite is actually working in the Coruña, they understand. And also in Madrid, also in Madrid with the budgets. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't worry, people know. [[Applause]] Here are only two options: the left-wing tripartites, to join whoever they are — yes, yes, yes! — and the option of the People's Party in Galicia. [[Balbordo.]] Here's the choice of the People's Party or the left-wing tripartite. Don't worry, after all, how we saw yesterday... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u54	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u55	...always vote together. At least in the Town Hall of Coruña. Look, they stop predicting the end of the world, which is not going to happen. They already said it in 2017, and it didn't happen. This is a participated work, Mr. Sánchez, among all. I know you don't like it: the municipalities and the plain ANPA that participate and bring their things. And if you have to make changes because there are requests from the municipalities, well done. I encourage counseling to continue working on that line. And of course they're on the company side, but not on small and medium-sized companies; I don't know which one you will be on. Maybe Yolanda Díaz can tell you she also got the bottles from Vega Sicilia. Ask Yolanda Díaz about who. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Mr Sánchez: one hundred and thirty million in public transport budgets in Galicia. I think it's enough... [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u56	Quiet, Mr. Lago. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u57	But, look: of course this is a plan -- I've demonstrated it with the data from 2017, and still the improvement in the current processing -- that will favor the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises -- sixty percent in the first phase. And in the contests for these small lines, by valuing quality and not price, as the contest does, it will favor people who have those buses, who know people, who know the lines and who can give the service improvements in those areas. Of course he'll favor those contests and make them more competitive. But allow me, because I can't let it go: tell me about some of the airbite consultants... this is the last thing I've been missing! Mr. Sánchez, I suppose you say it for the Coruña Town Hall contracts. More than half a million euros already paid to mobility consultants and they haven't changed one little marquee, not one! [[Murmurs.]] Those are the consultants that work with the Tide. Of course, they're usually friends, and contracts go to tide friends, but at least friends change a little marquee. I'm half a million euros and I don't change a single marquee in four years! Half a million euros spent on contracts! And now they wanted, in the budget we voted against yesterday — fortunately — to put another 100 thousand euros. For what? For another friend consultant? Those are scarves, tides with friends' consultants, and in Coruña they have good examples of how they are hired. [[Applause]] Mr. Álvarez, we're not talking about local elections, we're talking about metropolitan transport, which is where the Socialist Party is stopping it, in metropolitan transport, throughout that public transport system in Galicia. And that's what we complain about, we don't talk about elections. But, of course, Mr. Sánchez talks about Ferrol. To catch: "The holes of public transport" in Ferrol. Of course, those are the holes. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Voice of Lugo: "The chaos of the services forces you to close the website of the urban bus schedules". Chaos in Lugo. "The bus, as in 2015 but with complaints." [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows you a document to the members of the House.]] In A Coruña and paying... and leaving the debts for others. Don't worry. And when they all work together in that tripartite they don't like to hear: "The Diputation" — from Coruña — "rejects financing the modernization of Galician transport." This is the transport policy on the left: when it comes to ruling, everything is the opposite of what they say. But, of course, when the board is making a plan that is proving success, that it's showing how the quality of life improves, that it allows lower rates, higher deployment, higher services, better things, criticism. And, yes, just talking about economic amortization issues of the company. They talk about citizens, they talk about the improvement of services, they talk about quality, and there we will have the opportunity to work and improve among all. I told you in 2017: I think public transport and, in particular, with this impact in rural areas, is one of those policies where any party has to close its shoulder and has to help a government, because it's transcendental and transversal state policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u58	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Close of appearance, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u59	Thank you, President. Mr. Bará, the Board was the first to put the transport at Pontevedra on the table with the first meetings, and who did not attend was the Council of Pontevedra; therefore, it was the one that spoke of transport at Pontevedra, the Council of Galicia. And, too, after not attending the first meetings -- and I didn't want to come -- then we had a meeting in Santiago and, by the way, they came from Pontevedra Town Hall with a couple of stapled leaves, little more. A blank leaflet to talk about transport at the demand of which we still know nothing concrete. I, in any case, if the problem is when you calculate the amortization, how do you calculate the amortization... then what do you want me to tell you? If the problem is that... and the truth is, I've heard too many times the word "enterprise" and I think I haven't heard the word "citizens" in opposition, which is what we should care about. [[Applause]] And Mr. Sánchez, who asks me three questions I've already answered in my first intervention: I don't know if he doesn't understand or if he doesn't answer, but there are questions I've already answered. I don't think you should take it, I think. And also: it's not cut, of course it's not cut, it's not reduced. There's nothing missing, there's things coming up: there's a transport in the countryside, there's a transport in the countryside. And he comes back to talk with arguments... I'm not going to say the word, because I see it's bad for you, but it's the evidence. Bring in other arguments, please. I ask you to bring other constructive arguments. I believe that my appearance today on my own request is to realize what we are doing in public transport, the implementation of public transport throughout the territory, and to explain for the most part the new contracts — the new services that are being implemented in August and December, Mr Sánchez, because in August some people are dying and in December they are dying; I have no problem repeating it; in an exercise of maximum transparency, so that they are properly informed, because I believe that it is our obligation to inform us of the main lines of action of the new modalities and the improvement of mobility, which is our objective: to explain the details of the renewal and modernization of public transport, a matter that is of great importance, as to be brought here to this parliament and to give explanations. We're talking about the mobility of the Greeks, we're talking about the new services to provide citizens, we're talking about the jobs of public transport, we're talking about the future of small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2019 the concessions — I would like to insist, Mr Sánchez — expire in two phases: in August some are due to expire and in December others are due to expire. Therefore, I hope his questions remain clear to him. And, therefore, we are faced with a unique opportunity to implement a transport that responds to the needs of the Greeks and to improve mobility, essentially in our rural areas, with a plan that is in full development. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, you only have the plan if you wake up when you catch headlines. They didn't care when they ruled; when they ruled the Bipartite they didn't care, they didn't do anything. They didn't care when companies presented their resignations; they didn't care about anything. They didn't do anything, they didn't care. Nor in the processes of participation: neither did you make claims in the process of participation, were limited to a frontal position with arguments... you know what the arguments are, what I'm going to tell you. And, therefore, we worked so that Galicia wouldn't be without transport. In August 2017, if I had listened to them, there were no buses, there were no jobs, there were no services, there were no drivers. Therefore: a plan evaluated by the users, evaluated by the courts and evaluated by the workers as well. I think if we had listened to them, we'd withdraw the plan, and Galicia would be out of transport. That's your great contribution to the Public Transport Plan in Galicia. Despite the criticisms, the pitfalls and the difficulties, we did the most difficult thing. Everything is improved, of course; when you work, you can improve, but when you don't work, there's nothing to improve. We don't leave Galicia without transport, we don't leave half a thousand unemployed workers and, thanks to what we did in 2017, we are at the forefront of modernising public transport plans compared to other autonomous communities. That's the reality. We have advanced processing, a clear schedule, a schedule set and planned work — this year 2019 is throughout Galicia the bidding and the adjudication and start the services of all lines of Galicia—to promote the mobility of citizens in terms of equality, security, quality, social efficiency, economic and environmental sustainability and public transport: to enhance the use of public transport, intermodality and accessibility. Let's start with the work we're going to implement in 2019. We started in February 2018 with studies, with an important fieldwork, with surveys, talking to everyone who wanted to talk, and on February 1 we pulled out the first 100 farm projects, the first 100 contracts to submit in August because, Mr. Sánchez — who is not — in August is when the concessions are expired and therefore you have to have the services hired. One hundred contracts, two thousand lines — one thousand four hundred shares — twenty-eight million kilometers — so we duplicate the kilometers — more than one thousand buses and two thousand jobs, which account for a turnover of 600 million euros in this first group. And the second block will be put into public information in June and will start in December, because it's in December when the lines of this second block expire. So at the end of the year we will completely culminate in the modernization of all the interurban public transport in Galicia so that it will be more useful, more sustainable, more efficient — and therefore it will have a future — and to increase the mobility opportunities of the Greeks, which will reach the bus to more people. Of course, we want buses with people and not buses without people, extending the shared bus: in 2019, fifty-five percent, at the end of the year, will be shared bus, getting greater social performance; not employer performance, but social performance to public investments, shielding schoolchildren's attention, expanding transport to demand and extending the shared bus and transport to demand as a key to the effectiveness and maximum territorial coverage for public transport in Galicia. But with more improvements and more measures we unify the tariff system: the single tariff to end these tariff inequalities. We will expand the social benefits with the metropolitan card so all the Greeks can use it, extending the New People's card to all of Galicia so that all children can use it, and avoiding that barrier that exists today in the metropolitan transport plans. Better answer, with night hours. Lines with night hours to go to work, of course; in order to give ease to go to work, to go to the hospital. New services also with safe stops, to offer greater security to women, older people, minors, and ease the movements at night. Modernizing the fleet, guaranteeing workers, protecting small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, a new transport map with more and better services to strengthen public transport in Galicia. I'm done. Of course it is an opportunity to effectively modernise public transport and adapt it to needs. Of course, it is a great challenge and I think it deserves courage, commitment and illusion — that we have them — to go ahead with the Public Transport Plan, so that Galicia is not without transport. I invite you again to constructive approaches, and, of course, there will be no lack of work or effort for a useful and viable transport in terms of the future and adapted to needs. I insist again, you get constructive. For my part, that's all. [[Applause]] Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u60	Thank you, Counselor. We now substantiation, as a result of a change in the agenda, a motion. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to prevent saturation in emergency services of the Sergas hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u61	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. On Sunday there was a mobilization that was a failure, and that was certainly not the Compostela of Quintana Square. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, because while members of the Government of the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo himself were walking in Madrid in that manifestation of pride, the Greeks and the Greeks filled the streets of Galicia, filled the Quintana with dignity, filled with demands for public health. [[Applause]] I understand the concern, because they have been pinned on the mobilization of pride and are now concerned about the impact of surveys that will be carried out in the next municipalities, Europeans and surely also in the generals. That's what the division on the right has. But look, let's bring...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u63	Quiet. Quiet, please! Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u64	They're nervous. It's a matter that bothers the berth and the berth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u65	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u66	While this mobilization has taken a toll, a shame I think for any democrat in this country, because they have manifested themselves and mobilized themselves with those who defend the division — these yes — of society in Spain. these are the ones who defend division and rupture, here in Compostela — I repeat — Welsh and Germans mobilized by filling the demands of public health with dignity, that is the reality. The reality is that we have a society that no longer supports cuts in public health. And look, those who were there weren't all voters from En Marea, probably not the BNG or the PSdeG either. Surely many of those people who were there were simply moved to demand their right to health and to have quality public services in our country. And while that was happening, the board was making deaf ears and didn't mobilize, it wasn't listening, as it's done in the last few months. We have brought this issue here on several occasions, because the problem of emergencies is a problem that reflects the complete situation of the entire Greek public health system, something that does not interest anyone who claims that not everyone has access to that health service. The reality is that during all these weeks, in which we have voted against proposals to improve the emergency situation, the continuing attention points, in the case of Vigo, and the emergencies of this country have been collapsed. As much as it is denied in this House that there are no collapses in the emergency services, the problem will not be solved. There's a chronic, chronic saturation of the emergency services that end in collapse when the frequency increases. We've already explained here on one occasion what the genesis of that problem was. The genesis of this problem I think it was very well summed up in most of the demands we heard in Quintana square last Sunday, and we don't have enough doctors, nurses and nurses in primary care; that there are not enough staff in hospitals plants, that they have to receive the revenues from the emergency wards; that there are not enough pediatricians in this country and that we have a government that is constantly behind the staff of the emergency wards of the continued care points. I insist: people in the corridors of a relatively new service. Because the problem is not the service itself, the problem is that there are not enough staff, either in primary care or in the emergencies of the continuing attention points. A demand that I'm not going to explain again here because we've been debating the need to implement measures that involve complete equipment; that they assume that the points of continued attention are not discovered; that they assume that in this country no one else will die at an ongoing point of attention without health care. That's why they mobilized those 35,000 people, those 40,000 people, I don't remember the exact number now, but that Quintana that was full on Sunday... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want to fight a number battle, we can talk about how the photoshop is used to fill photographs of Columbus. But look, ladies and gentlemen, we have a real problem, we have real demands, we have professionals who have been warning of a situation for a full year, and we have a Galician board that not only does it not just listen, but it points and threatens professionals who report deaths in emergency services. [[Applause]] That's the reality. In the past, we questioned a health council that didn't want to hear anything of this and simply refused to make personal attacks that, frankly, I don't care very much. What we need, what we care about in Marea, is that they meet these demands from professionals and professionals. I want to say here, and I said the full past, that we must recognize the courage, strength and capacity of all those personnel who keep strikes in Leonine conditions, not only by 100 percent of minimum services, that they are not met, but by lack of empathy, by deaf ears, by the Health Council. In the case of Santiago de Compostela Hospital Complex, in this case, you're seeing how suddenly there were no staff at first to be able to meet the demands of the professionals, beginning to make offers. We said they're insufficient, but we have to say here and we recognize the professionals that the work, because strikes are worth it, they get things; protests if they're worth it, they get things; and so we're going to continue supporting these mobilizations. We have a problem: how we manage our own emergency services. We call on this motion to draw up real contingency plans to allow immediate personnel to be available and to contemplate income in agile manner, because in the full past Mr. Almuña did not know how to move as those contingency plans were designed, how long the staff were called to open those beds that kept closed and how long it seemed to him, as Health Counsellor and, therefore, as the highest responsibility for public health in this country, how long it seemed appropriate for a person to wait in an emergency corridor. We need these beds to be open, that these resources are available, but at least we know that, when the service is saturated, if they are available, that they will be open, that the number of professionals will be increased, and that what the health counsellor is not going to do in any way is to put a stop to nursing supervisors and supervisors, directors and medical directors, to increase the number of professionals who are in the services to care for people. We need to increase professional staff both in primary care services and in hospital care services on a permanent basis. That's not enough. The OPEs that are doing don't increase a single professional, what we have is a way of formalizing or making a little more stable a contract that has been absolutely precarious for the last ten years; that is, the OPEs that are going out now don't create squares, and therefore we have a problem of insufficiency of staff in many services, because it must be remembered here that there are no measures that require that the retirement age be extended or suddenly asked to make a new contract. By the way, in the case of medicine which is widely rejected by professionals, because I think it's a draft bill in which, at the end, we pass a precaution to a precaution B, where we have a contract where professionals have to be free from what the Health Council decides on 365 days of the year at 24 hours. That's not a serious proposal, and of course, it's far from the demands we've made here as a stable recruit. You don't solve the escape of health professionals to other public systems. You don't solve the shortage of professionals. May the opening of plants and inoperative wings be carried out on a permanent basis. The Council of Health and the People's Parliamentary Group seem inefficient to have opened these beds. It seems they didn't have enough to reduce in a decade more than 400 beds in the public health system. I can't see that Povisa, that Pulusa, that Quiron, is going to close beds in the winter months. They're still open all year round! So, therefore, public resources and services, at the disposal of the needs of the citizenry. And that they recover, of course, those amortized personnel squares. We just moved it, which is absolutely insufficient. We are in a situation of health crisis motivated by ten-year strikers, the lack of operation in the management of public health and the cuts. Because, of course, you can't force professionals to retire, press them to retire, so they don't lengthen their retirement age, and then say here that there are no professionals and that now they have to be asked to delay their retirement age. It's absolutely bad management, and we need, once and for all, to put measures on the table which means that we're going to improve this situation. We propose these, of course they could be many more, we are already exhausted from bringing this matter here without taking a single measure from the Council. And, whether these or others, we recommend that they stop walking on the streets of Madrid in those façades of pride and propose measures to improve public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u68	Good morning. In fact, to see the people of the People's Party get this crazy again because, in fact, with the mess here, Fexóo was in Madrid. And you don't know if you can count, multiply, and divide, but you can put yourself in the way you do, more and more thousands of Galicians and Greeks who don't buy their story anymore. They don't buy it, they don't buy it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Many thousands, many, many thousands! Yes, many thousands. [[Applause]] No need to make traps and no slots without any kind of slot. Even though the Galician Television makes live connections with Madrid and does not retransmit what's going on in Galicia, and have the indecency, with the resources and taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, to reflect Madrid's fachoid reality instead of reflecting Galician reality, even if that's the case, there were thousands and thousands of Greeks and Greeks in the streets of Compostela on Sunday. Why? Because they don't buy him his story anymore, they don't buy him the story that public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u69	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u70	It doesn't matter. Even if you pretend we don't talk and don't say what happened, it happened and it keeps happening. It continues to happen that there are thousands and thousands of Welsh and Welsh people who already know and suffer, unfortunately, the consequences of the public party's health policies, the consequences of being without pediatricians, the consequences of unreplaced doctors, nurses, nurses, and they know what it is that, instead of their family doctor paying attention exclusively to their share, they have to take care of theirs, the one on the other side and the other on the other. They know perfectly well what the CAP, rather than being to meet outpatient emergencies, has to meet the demands of people who don't have their doctors in the morning and end up going to the CAP. The professionals know what it is to be constantly overdemanded, permanently, they know what it is to care for sixty, seventy and one hundred and so on, as they are telling us every time we meet with them and they have also said in this Parliament. And since they're already tired and tired of being told that this is temporary, it's an exception. Since it's not an exception, but it's becoming the norm, and because it's not a point problem, but it's already structural, no one believes their speech to them, so they're more and more professionals who are demanding solutions, those who leave tables and working groups, because they don't believe anything about those liars that you're telling them to see if they're going down the pressure, and they're more and more the Greeks who leave the street because they want public, universal, free health and they're not willing to believe them and to allow you to dismantle the health of our country. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative that you bring here today in Marea, because it is in the direction of the demands that we have brought here, by active and passive, that we have to provide professionals with the public health system of Galicia, because the nine years — almost ten — of the People's Party governments have brought back on labour conditions, precariousness and loss of workers' rights, policies of back turned to professionals, deaf ears, pre-power, order and command and imposition. Fruit of that, more and more are the professionals who are saying up here, as these professionals who were in the streets of Compostela this Sunday saying up here, that they feel none, despised, mistreated, who come one day and another also to the exhausted, desperate house, because you, the Government of the Union, demand them every day that they prioritize them, that they work as if they were an exceptional day, in an alarming situation, in a flu peak situation, in a situation as if they had just passed a tsunami, and so you can't work every day, so you can't give care to the Greeks and the Galicians and they know, and they know they're putting their professionalism at risk, that they're putting the health and life of the Galicians and the Greeks at risk. This can only be solved with a change of course and with a change of model, and the first thing to do is to provide resources for more professionals; resources to solve also the precariousness of the means they are working with; recovering amortized squares and ending with the replacement rates; opening up all the plants that have systematically closed with stable professionals, not opening the plant and that there are 1 or 2 professionals running from there, without proper attention, all that we have to demand for active and passive. Of course, today we support this initiative of En Marea, but the BNG will continue to bring it here as often as it needs, because it gives the sea against the stones, but they don't have the slightest doubt, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that at the end of the sea they can. Don't have the slightest doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u72	Thank you, President. The truth is, I didn't think it was so controversial about the demonstration. I thought everyone was proud of the demonstration he went to. We do. [[Applause]] Well, then don't be angry because they tell them they went to a demonstration. There, you qualify the whole world as traitors. I'm going to tell you my opinion, since I'm arguing. They call me a traitor, but I'd rather measure patriotism in numbers of nurses than in the size of the flag. It's an opinion, you don't share it, there are differences. [[Applause]] We were there listening to the people, who have voice. You were listening to VOX, there are differences. It's okay! [[Murmurs.]] But they're proud! There are differences in climate, even. In Compostela hides with rain sometimes, you were there very well, towards the sun with the new shirt. There are differences, nothing happens, each one defends what he thinks he must defend. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, if I may — thanks to the President — overcome the nerves. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u73	Don't worry, there's no one nervous here. There are doctors in the room too, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u74	Ah! well, well. They even moved a lot to go to the demonstration. Some were outside, and they were here and there to go to a demonstration. All right, all right, everyone goes to the demonstrations they consider appropriate. We defend public health, universal, free and quality, and you defend flags. All right! All right! I hope we can someday save people who are ill with the flag, I promise! At least we defend... Mr. Castineira, if the president doesn't ask you anything, I ask you, what problem do you have with us manifesting ourselves to health professionals? Perfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So let me talk about the healthcare professionals, who are people who, by the way, were defending the need for more personnel in the system. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There were a lot of emergency professionals who defend things like that in Santiago, where there's an emergency conflict, you have a manager... you defend the private model more than the public business model, I'd like to know what future would have a manager like that of the Santiago hospital in a private company. With that level of inefficiency, I'd like to know. But these emergency professionals were defending, as they defend the CAP, how they defend health services in general, which requires a greater number of professionals, and that emergency problems, which are the ones here today, I'm telling them, but I can see they don't care. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to talk to this side, that they're defending public health. Emergency professionals defend that more personal needs, such as Santiago's case, where they're asking for more staff to improve the quality of care, even giving up rights, that this is something to be taken into account. There are those who when they hear Santiago's professionals insult them, [as the president of the board did], we thank him for his work, because besides his defense of quality is the defense of everyone. [[Expression withdrawn by Mr. Torrado Quintela]] [[Applause]] Let's not forget that when a healthcare professional talks about improving his system, he's talking about improving the system that affects us all, and that's why it's important, much more important, to hear things about felonies and betrayals, that don't improve the quality of people's care, and I think this is very important, especially in this initiative. In the face of insults, we're going to thank the professionals who manifest themselves, we're going to be with them and we're going to defend, in the same sense that they do, that there's a personal problem, because that's basically the problem behind the emergency problem in Santiago, in general, of hospitals and the CAP. They have an emergency problem, but it's not just an emergency problem. There's a problem because there are closed beds, because there are closed plants in hospitals, because that's why there are emergency patients who can't be disposed of, so they build up and satuate in the corridors, and what happens in the hospital corridors. The fact that there are fewer professionals implies that they serve slower, and even if they redouble their efforts, I'm not able to double. They can't be... 'Even!' 'cause I'm from health professionals, in the end, I believe anything—in two different places at once, for now they're not able, and yet they do a very good job. But yet, the staff saturation that goes to the emergency services is impossible to deal with the staff reduction that you're applying to them. With the reduction of material, I don't tell them! As you can hear, the CAPs — if they ever listen to them — are working in conditions, the truth, quite regrettable. We are going to support this initiative because it basically defends what we have also been defending for a long time: that there is a problem with the emergency service that affects several issues. It lays down the initiative and the need to take action in all aspects of hospitals and referrals. And consider what we've seen defending, which is very important to listen to professionals. The health professionals were at Compostela the other day. They've defended that their health is for everyone, and that it's necessary, very precise, to defend it because it's in danger. And we share with them that there is a serious problem of cuts that we are starting to pay now, and of neglecting or neglecting by the Health Council; I would advise that, by the way, it is quite missing, that it should disappear completely and change the whole direction, that this is indeed important. And while others walk over here and over there, manifesting themselves with eagles. We prefer to defend public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u75	Thank you. Mr. Torrado, I think the president of the board didn't insult anyone, so that expression is taken away. He mentioned the president, perhaps he did it unconsciously, so I say we're taking her out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You'll agree to retire. The expression is removed. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u76	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. We're not going to debate here where there was more participation in the demonstrations. Luckily...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u77	That was worth it. It's just that at the two demonstrations you're putting together... Mr. Lake, Mr. Lake, Mr. Lake! I see myself in the obligation to call it in order and you know I don't like it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That kind of expression, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know how I do it, don't do it now that... I'll go to the rehabilitator from time to time, and I know very well how to use my hand. Watch out for that expression, too. [Just fuck, let's go!] Man, please tell me that! [[Expression subsequently withdrawn by Mr. President for considering it uncut.]] I can't afford that. That's not it, eh! That's not it! No, no, what bad expression did I say? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, that's... finally. I'm sorry, it's rude, but it's not an insult. It's uncut, I'm sorry. My expression is withdrawn. Let's see if you take some away when they say so. [[Protests.]] Come on, Mrs. Friend, keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u78	Fortunately, we live in a free and democratic country, where everyone can attend the demonstrations that they think are convenient. I wanted to say something else, that patriotism is measured by the central government giving Galicia the same thing as Catalonia. We're all first-born citizens, and it's not going to be that by staying in a position if you give them more than others. [[Applause]] We've come here to debate once again about health, Greek health, and once again it seems that we're talking about different realities, different health. We're going to focus the debate, stop doing demagogy, be serious and talk about realities. While international agencies of all solvency put our health among the most valued in the world, our hospitals and our professionals are rewarded for their work in management, for their scientific and assistance work, you remain anchored in pessimism and catastrophe. We are world leaders in transplants, in assisted fertilization, in early detection systems of cancer. We have the greatest history in surgical interventions, in consultations. We've had fewer waiting lists since there were records, quick tracks... but they're not worth anything, they're still putting wheeled poles on a continuous basis. Since 16 years ago, never before has the Greeks valued public health better. Public health has always been a priority in the budgets of the Galician Union, adding 40.45%, about 4 billion euros, in 2019, the highest figure in history in our autonomous community, converting Galicia into the fifth autonomous community with the highest consolidated health expenditure. We have a universal and free health system. Luckily, his users, who are the sick, know and value what they have. You say you don't listen to the Greeks. Well, look, in order not to listen to us, we have 41 seats! [[Applause]] Emergency services don't have a scheduled activity and they have a great variability in workloads at different times of the year. The Galego Health Service develops annual plans of continence for the influenza period in October, in order to meet the increase in the demand for care or the increase in the need for hospital income. These plans are drawn up and signed by each of the EOXI, in collaboration with the professionals, and forwarded to the Directorate-General for Health Care. I won't talk much more about it, it was said in health committees, in Commission 5, it was spoken in plenary, the councillor made it clear at the last plenary session, but none of that is worth it to them. Of course, the goal of Sergas is always to establish the best coordination between primary and hospital care services and resources, as well as health emergencies, 061. When there are increases in demand for assistance, adaptations to the assistance model are made to solve situations, with the need for resource empowerment, both structural and staff, as needs are growing. I'm not going to say what improved in the template the Galician Health Service. I'll just say it increased from 2008 to 2018 in 2,353 professionals. Say it continues to work, adapting resources to the needs of each moment. This is reality, the rest is alarming. Obviously, in health we always have to choose excellence, but without losing coherence and, like good Greeks, "the sweet." Manage the resources of all Greeks so that the health we have today can maintain it in the future and that our children have the same resources that we have today must be the priority of a responsible government, and in that sense it works from the Galician Council and the Council of Health. We are living moments of change — it is true — and of restructuring. There's a negotiating predisposition on the part of the Council, and the Health Counsellor said so at the last plenary session. They're working with technical commissions, trade union representatives and CAP workers; they're also working with primary care and, of course, emergency workers. At this point, we are working and negotiating improvements for professionals who will no doubt also have an impact on improvements for patients. And from our group we hope that negotiations will close as soon as possible and that we will reach favourable agreements for all sides. I told you in the last speech and I repeat it in this, Mrs Solla, we know that there is a need for primary care doctors and pediatricians, which is a reality at the state level, not only in Galicia. A lot of management has been done in this regard since the Union: stable contracts, demand for more training facilities... and, of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u79	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u80	...we don't deny the reality — it's over, Mr. President. We're going to listen to the Greeks in their legitimate demands for improvements in health care. We are with working groups and negotiations with professionals to respond to these demands and solve the problems that undoubtedly exist. But to whom we cannot hear about this is the opposition groups, who have been wrong in their diagnosis for so many years, spreading lies and making proposals that have never been electorally supported by citizenship. This motion is just one more example of this amendment strategy to the whole of our health system that's been repeating for ten years, that hasn't worked for them before, and that won't work for them now either. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u82	Thank you, President. And thanks to the opposition groups. A prior consideration, Mrs. Friend. Unfortunately not, in this country there is no freedom, and not everyone can say what they want. And if you don't remind those two people, Carlos and Serafín, that they've been waiting for years for a pardon before an absolutely unjust sentence. And we want to remember here the application of his law, the law bites, and all the unionists charged with defending the right to work. Of course, there is no freedom here, so no, not everyone can manifest itself in this country saying what it wants, unfortunately. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They've got 41 seats for now, they've now split... now they've divided their product, that's what the free market has. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now there are several formulas to offer us the same. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u83	Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u84	Look, it's very good that they say they don't deny reality, and it's a breakthrough because so far it was all negative, everything was a lie, everything we said wasn't true. But to move that the measures we propose are against the public health system is obviously a lie. Because to ask that the deleted squares be restored, to request that the services and hospital units that you keep closed be made available, it's not to walk against the public health system. Maybe it's walking against your public health squilling model, and after ten years of squilling it, now we've seen you say there's no professionals and there's nothing we can do to solve it. As much as they repeat the budget lie, it doesn't really become. We have 8% less, in real terms, of budget compared to the year 2009, Mrs Amigo. And, of course, 100 euros are not worth the same as 100 euros ten years ago. And reality beats the Greeks and the Greeks, so they filled Quintana last Sunday. That's why they filled it up! because there are waiting lists in primary care, because there are no pediatricians for all children in Galicia, because there are waiting lists that are not the ones you publish, that that's not the reality. So that reality is palpable, it lives, it's noticed in the skin of the Galicians and the Greeks, and that's why they're going out to protest. And, of course, of all colors, because what was defended there was public health, not like on the other side. And this is not going to be solved, of course, with technical commissions designed to tide professionals. It will only come with budget and political will. And the same thing that we asked the parliamentary groups here when we did the budgetary debate, the public health professionals asked them to do so. That's why they told them it was a mistake to bring proposals to a table, to a technical commission, without budget. That's what the medical professionals told them last week, that's the reality, that's the problem, you have to invest and you have to be able to invest! [[Murmurs.]] And it must be dedicated to professionals. We have a serious problem, Mrs. Friend, and this won't solve it, Mr. Pelayo. Unfortunately, this has to solve the budget and resources for public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We'll stop the session. I'd almost say I'd come at four, it's two hours. But two hours don't they get to eat? [[Murmurs.]] Man, please! [[Protests.]] Four less room! [[Protests.]] Four minus a room, please, that we're going through a lot of time! I'd almost say it's better at four minus a room. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm holding on to four-quarters! Next time I don't ask. Four less room! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u86	Good afternoon. We resume the session by continuing with agenda item 2 of attendance. Mr. Advocate of the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u87	To make this appearance, Mr. José González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, everyone here. If it's true that I'm going to extend myself for a few minutes, my speech here today could be summed up in the following statement: rural has a future. I can't start my first appearance before this House as councillor of the middle rural of Galicia in any other way than with this so round, and at the same time so certain, affirmation: rural has a future. To a greater or lesser extent, all of us here today are connected to rural areas. Probably many of you, being younger, accompanied their parents and mothers every weekend, on summer holidays or at nothing, to the village to visit their grandparents. Sometime later, when they were younger, they returned to that village but no longer to visit her grandparents, but to teach her to the children. Many of those present will remember to be born, to be raised, to have friends, to study, in the countryside, until they had knocked on the door the need to move to the city. Who doesn't keep in memory what it was like to play hide-and-seek between horses, learn to fish on the river's edge, or meet the comechon of the vegetables when in the middle of summer, and use short pants, we fell while we played in the vineyards. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I remember all of this. And if I say the wine is because it's me from Ribeiro, and I suffered like many from here that pocket at the door of the need to go to town. And I also suffered the mentality that we are suffering here today: to consider rural as a second place. In my village it was said: "or study, or go to the vineyards." In other areas of Galicia it is said: or studies, or cows' cows' vassies. And so in every place, depending on the economic engine of that region. But that mentality is going to change because rural has a future, because this council has as its fundamental purpose the primary purpose of life in Galicia is to live in rural areas both in economic interests and in quality of life; therefore, to live in rural areas as well. To a greater or lesser extent, all of us here feel love for rural, and feel that love, that pride, is to feel pride in Galicia. That's why today I want to invite you all, ladies and gentlemen, all and every one of the members of this House, to accompany me on a trip to Galicia; a trip to Galicia without needing to leave Parliament. I'd like to be accompanied by our community and together we can understand the enormous challenge we have in this council. Let's all start that journey by entering a gainful farm and see the problems and challenges that await us here. One of the good things you've got to be a counselor is the visits I can make to our farmers and livestock. In these hundred and forty days I've already visited a good number of livestock farms, and what I've found was young people with ambition and a desire to do good things; people concerned about the hygienic-health conditions and the welfare of their animals; trained people who conceive of their exploitation as a business that has to achieve their profitability; people who interpret greed as an activity that sets population in rural areas and who also have to act as a custodian of the territory. What are the challenges of our dairy sector? How can we help in this field? Look, as I announced last week, we're going to put in place the dynamisation strategy of the Welsh milk sector, counting on each and every one of the agents involved. In this way, we will face the four major challenges of the future here: the reform of the CAP, in which we defend and defend Galicia's interests; the professionalization of the sector through continuing training and innovation; the profitability of farms, with a gradual but unpauseable transformation; and, of course, the improvement of the territorial base through a new law to recover and enhance Galicia's productive agricultural land. These are official data. The average price of milk in Galicia, in December, is 31.7 cents; two cents higher than the same month in 2016. That is, in these two years of legislation, the price of milk has grown by 6.4%. Winners billed in 2018 about 851 million euros, 4,4 % more than in the previous year. And in comparison to 2016, the increase is nothing more and nothing less than 16%. As for production, in 2018 it was 2,739,400 tonnes, an increase of 3% compared to 2017 and 5,2 % compared to 2016. Positive data? Yes, very good. Can they get better? Of course, and on that path we are, we're not going to be happy with these figures. We must bet on a change of mind that begins in the custom that we all have in talking about milk. To talk only about the price of milk is to see the sector in a limited way. We have to talk about costs, they're vital. We must also start talking about margins, profit margins, so we can properly assess the situation of the sector. It makes no sense to compare only the price between communities and countries when the cost of milk production is totally different from those elsewhere. Milk production in Andalusia or Holland, with different quality, fat or protein parameters, is quite different from Welsh production; it makes sense that prices are different. That's why it doesn't make sense to say how much you've stopped entering or how much you've lost compared to other territories. The profit margin is therefore what our owners, what all of us, must begin to value. Besides, we always talk about the basic price, at which we should add the quality premiums and the milk conditions. For all this, there is no doubt that the wager bet is the quality of production, added value and profitability. This is done in part through the transformation of the raw material, and since the Galician Union we have helped and will continue to help in this transformation. In addition, in the last publication of the BOE is the decree that regulates the identification of the origin of milk, which benefits both greedy and consumer entrepreneurs. The approved type-of-milk purchase contract was put in place, and it was also possible to pass the price transfer decree, through which the industry has to disclose the data on milk purchase prices. There's more and more balance, there's more and more transparency, but we must continue to work in a coordinated and joint way. We hope that the current Government of Spain will fulfil the commitments it has made and continue to defend the interests of the gainful entrepreneurs. So, and as I said a minute ago, the momentum of the quality of agri-food production is vital for the development of a rural with a future. In this sense it is key to us, and we make an important bet for it, the Galaga Food Quality Agency. Created in 2018, we've reinforced its structure since I've been a counselor, separating two areas. On the one hand, training and innovation in the agricultural field, and on the other hand, differentiated quality. In an increasingly globalized world it is extremely necessary to stimulate training, research and innovation in the development of agri-food production. And Galicia has to be there and it has to compete. And you can only compete with your main differential fact, which is nothing other than the quality of our products; look for excellence in our products to stand out in an increasingly interconnected and competitive market. For all this, we have drawn up some lines of future that Agacal will put in place to strengthen the public research and innovation system in the agroforestry field. Among other measures — and concrete measures — I would like to highlight the following. First of all, the creation of the Galician plant genetic reserve, which through Agacal will stimulate the creation, on land of the agency or board, of a space or spaces for the conservation of collections of forest genetic material, fruit trees, vineyards, chestnuts or even of the native varieties of olive trees that are currently developing the CSIC through an agreement with the Council. Also the creation of joint research units with forest and agribusiness companies to develop joint research and valuation lines in Galicia and mobilize private capital. Thirdly, the consolidation of Agacal's network of centres as a demonstration area for testing new technologies in the agroforestry field; a no smaller issue and in which we have a strong commitment, such as the reinforcement of research centres' staff, recovering lines of research with little staffing of researchers in recent years. The establishment of the foundations of the modernisation plan for the installations, machinery and mobile park of these research centres. And finally, the reinforcement of the structure, management and administration of the agency The bet on quality food products with differential quality stamps is seen as an increase in budget shares in this year 2019 by about 5 percent. Almost 6 percent, with a figure close to three million euros, are increased for quality product promotion activities carried out by regulatory councils or sectoral associations. And it also increases by 20% of the Special Agri-Food Promotion Plan, with an budget of about 1.2 million euros. If we travel through Galicia, we'll see not only the power of the dairy sector, which is very important, but also the power of designations of origin and protected geographical indications, all of them under the umbrella of Agacal. From Lourenzá's façade to the wine-growing region of the Sacred Ribeira; from Arzua's cheese to Galician honey; from the chestnut to the liqueur of herbs, from the tender Galician to the bread of Cea, is it not an incomparable journey that offers us our rural? Most of the agribusiness products that make us feel proud, which provide us as Greeks, are protected by designations of origin or protected geographical indications. We have 33 different quality stamps and we work to get ahead of the "vac" and "boi" stamps from Galicia and the "pala galego" stamps. I hope that before the legislation is over, they're already in place. But we're also studying the possibility of giving protection to more products, such as other products derived from the pig or the exceptional Greek garden, to which we intend to give an important boost. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, is a reference in quality agri-food production, and we will enhance its recognition through a strong promotion of our designations of origin and protected geographical indications, with the clear objective that our producers will attain higher prices in their products, because the Galicia brand is a reference for quality agro-food production. We also work in an integral vision that addresses promotion from a territorial perspective, where the product has to be a vertebrate element of the territory where it is cultivated. In this sense, we have just presented two weeks ago, in collaboration with the Council of Culture and Tourism, a strategic plan for the dynamization of the territory of the wineries in Galicia, because we understand that wine has to be the protagonist of the development of these regions in the field of tourism as well. This plan will be done — as it could not be otherwise — with the collaboration of all the agents in the territory concerned. To mention some of them — even if you're talking to all of them — are designations of origin, wine routes, rural development groups and even tourist geodestinies. We bet, as I said, by the DOs, by the protected geographical indications and by the products they provide us as Welsh. In the time since I was appointed counsellor, we have launched different initiatives related to another of these products, such as the chestnut, which for us occupies an important place. First of all, the Plan for the Recovery of Traditional Cattle Jackets of Galicia, which we will soon present, beginning with the jumps of the Council of Folgoso do Courel. The next call of the Chestnut Bureau as a dialogue tool with the whole sector. Or the conservation and reproduction of the genetic material of our traditional varieties of chestnuts through their planting on Council's farms, as a first step towards their assignment to private owners, seeking for new plantations to take place in an orderly manner and with native varieties, with our own. Let us now go on this journey to agricultural holdings. Who works on them? We need more and more new people, young people, to allow generational remittance. But also trained people who progress in their professionalization, so that they can live with a strong and professional producer sector with those who are engaged in agriculture or part-time gain, so traditional on our land. That is why the Rural Council has just resolved the call for aid for the improvement of farms in 2018 for a total amount of more than 50 million euros, of which 13 million are for the creation of businesses for young farmers. I was the one in this Parliament in 2017, and as spokesperson for the People's Party in the Committee on the Rural Environment, he presented an initiative to lower the tax pressure on young farmers benefiting from this aid; an initiative that he had with unanimous support from all over Parliament. And this initiative was also transferred by the Union to the Central Government. It was our own president who presented the matter to the ministry. Last week we learned that the courts gave reason to those we argued that the position of the State Tax Agency was not right, that we could not tax these aid in the same year of incorporation. And now we understand that if we want to support rural areas and the generational remittances, we have to go further and lay down the allocation of these aid in a period not less than five years that we demand from young people on a permanent basis. We also call on the Central Government to adapt the taxation of incorporation aid to this criterion, through an amendment to the IRPF regulations, to the aim that young people and girls entering the agricultural sector have more facilities to move forward to exploit them. We also want to remember how we work to defend the interests of farmers and farmers in the face of reform of Community agricultural policy from 2020 onwards. Our main lines in this area are as follows, which I shall report to them and which they already know because we are talking about them in this Parliament. First of all, we want and support a strong common CAP, which maintains the current budget and which finances exclusively with European funds its first pillar: direct aid. We also want measures that recognize the particularities of our territory within a national strategic plan, as laid down in Community legislation. We want, because we support our farms, positive discrimination for mountain areas and with natural limitations. We want a maximum of EUR 60,000 per farm, to favour small and medium farms, because those are ours, ours. We also strongly defend the historic rights of the Greek farmers and livestock, and also, within the definition of a genuine farmer, the part-time farmer. And in the defence of the Greek position in the reform of the CAP, yesterday I had the opportunity to announce at the Galician Agrarian Council the creation of a specific working group to agree with the sectors involved the position of our Community in the elaboration of the Spanish Strategic Plan. Let's continue on this trip to Galicia, look at the landscape, look around us. What can we highlight? What characterizes the property structure in Galicia? Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia occupies only 6% of Spain's territory but has more than 16% of Spain's rustic surface and its largest number of catastral plots, more than 11 million plots, which house 1,672,000 catastral holders; that is, we have a fifth of the catastral landowners censused at national level and nearly 30% of all rustic plots in Spain. Therefore, Galicia is the autonomous community with the highest degree of ownership of Spain. The catastrophic plot of rustics has an average surface area of just over two thousand five hundred square meters in Galicia. The average land area per holder in Galicia is 1,7h, while in Spain it is 5,74h. To reach that average area, each holder in Galicia needs seven plots, while in the rest of Spain only five. All of this gives us an idea of the difficulty of mobilizing lands in our community. The useful agrarian surface of Galicia is more than six hundred thousand hectares, which means 21% of the surface, but they are, of course, three hundred thousand hectares less than thirty years ago. On the other hand, we lack — and this is also important — reliable statistical data that enable us to establish a profile of the owner of the Italian rustic soil, especially as regards the particular private property. The data from the real estate disaster — and this too is a reality — are not updated, so many properties are named after deceased persons, and, indeed, they belong to a plurality of owners who acquired them by inheritance, or whether they are landowners out of coverage, they can be imlocalized. We also have no reliable data on their age, occupation or distance from the place of residence to the land of their property, although the process of disarraying allows us to conclude that a very important percentage corresponds to landowners who live outside the countryside and who are disengaged from agricultural activity. By citing the main deficiencies of the rustic catastrophe in Galicia, it would point out the following: the existence of a large number of plots with the name of islocateables; the lack of conformity of cadastral plots with the physical reality of the temples; the inaccuracy of many of the catastral revisions that took place in the Greek municipalities; the difficulties in making changes in the cadastral data, especially due to the delay in these changes; the rigidity in the confidentiality of the cadastral data, which makes its use difficult to advance in the development of mechanisms for diagnosing land markets in Galicia. In short, this data, which gives us an idea of the difficulty we're dealing with, also allows us to state that an important part of Galician rustic soil, around 75% of the total, is composed of scattered small plots, belonging to landowners in most of their rural offs, which possibly already perceive their property as a burden more than a possible source of income. However, the agronomic capacity of the Galician rustic soil is beyond doubt, and the abandoned surface is not necessarily the worst agronomic condition. On the other hand, there is a clear demand for productive land of different uses: agriculture, livestock and forestry. This demand stems from current farms in the Italian countryside, but there is also a growing interest in new entrepreneurs and people who are willing to invest in our rural areas. It is therefore necessary to address a legislative reform that promotes the mobilization of Galician productive land, linking supply and demand for land with instruments that guarantee the legal security of investments. In addition, a balance must be sought between the interests of the bidders and the claimants of the land. According to all this I have just explained, the Rural Environment Council, together with the People's Parliamentary Group, is drafting a proposal for a law of recovery and the value of Galician agricultural land. This law will comply with and collect in its entirety the measures proposed in recommendations 71 to 83 of the Committee on the Study of Forest Reform, thus respecting the parliamentary mandate; I would like to recall that it was the mandate of the three fourths of this House. This recovery and placing in value of Galician agricultural land requires an integral planning of rural territory and rural land use, based on the territory's ability to do so for each of these uses. That's why we're working together with the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor in compliance with previous recommendations 62 to 70 and with the development of the catalogue of high agricultural and forestry yields in Galicia. In addition, in the field of land mobilization, this government has a commitment to administratively finalise in this legislation the 108 partial restructuring processes opened up today in Galicia. I want to remember and value what Joina did in this process. In particular, in these years, it has been active in 1,025 areas of partial restructuring, which are nearly 55,000 hectares, and have benefited nearly 440,000 owners in more than 4 million plots. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, a journey through Galicia undoubtedly leads us to observe that our community is tattooed with mountains and forests. Fortunately, we live on a land with a very important forest sector. And we advocate the need to have a living, dynamic and sustainable multifunctional mount, both from an environmental and economic point of view. This board, in this area of forest, will work, as it could not be otherwise, on the basis of the recommendations of the Special Committee on Research for Forest Policy Reform. As an example, taking its recommendations and as a first step, we have just announced at the Agrarian Council yesterday the first of the actions of the extensive pasture plan, which refers to recommendation 23 of the dictatorship, which is going to begin at the Oresan Council of Cualedro with the adequacy of a few hundred hectares, to function also as a forest fire prevention tool. Pastries will be created that will be leased, through the Land Bank, to landowners of the region for their exploitation. And following recommendation 38 of the dictatorship, we made a very important bet on our mountain when we created in the structure of the council two general directions: mountain defence and forest planning and management. It is obvious — but we have placed it in the structure — that fire prevention is fundamental to the existence of a clean and orderly mountain, in which sustainable forest management is made. That's why we will support mountain management, to increase the ordered forest surface in our community. That's why we're going to put in place a very substantial increase in the allocations for the development of district forest management plans. These Porf have to develop within the scope of the high agricultural and forestry productivity land catalogue, because the mountain has to develop within the limits that are marked by this planning. Also within this area of planning, we will conclude the Galician Forest Plan, which, in addition to being presented to the Council for its approval, will bring to this Parliament as we have promised, and will clearly collect all the recommendations of the Commission's ruling affecting it. I would like to point out, because I consider it to be of the utmost importance and it was a complaint from the entire sector, which we have been developing since last November for the construction of Galicia's forest inventory, and thus also fulfilling the first of the recommendations of the dictatorship. We have also launched, through the creation of working groups with representatives of the forest sector, the regulatory simplification commission referred to in recommendation 9. We will soon have published the decree on forest use, which will entail a very important advance in this simplification. But we also made progress — and this was also a demand from the sector — in the process of achieving the termination of consortia and agreements from the productive mountains, in order to guide public management to those where production is highly conditioned by environmental or cultural values of general interest, another of the recommendations of the dictatorship, in particular the sixth. We are finishing, within a framework of collaboration between the University of Vigo and the Council of the Rural Environment, the development of the concept of forest model and periurban mountain, as it collects recommendation No. 30 of the dictatorship, in order to find a proper management system for the mountains with high demand for socio-recreational use. For the Vigo Mountain Commonwealth alone, we spend more than 1.3 million euros, which will enable us to act on 670 hectares that were very affected by the 2017 fire strike. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, all the strategic lines of the Council are in line, and each one of them allows others to move forward, thrive and refuel each other. An orderly mountain helps prevent fires; an orderly mountain helps prevent one of the worst evils that afflict our community. Let's talk about numbers first. In 2017 there were 3,121 fires in our community, with a total of 62,309 hectares burned. In 2018 there were 1,426 fires, with a total of 2,608 hectares. It's 60,000 hectares less, 96% less of the land burned. I give exact figures because of the importance they have. It's true that 2018's data are very good compared to 2017's or that of a decade ago, the year 2008, where there were almost twice as many fires. But as long as there's a single set of fires, the numbers will be bad. If we learn something these years, precisely thanks to one of the lessons we learn from the study commission, it is that Galicia does not burn, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia burns. Three out of four fires are intentional; three out of four fires are directly provoked by the man's hand; three out of four. [[Applause]] That's why we work to strengthen the investigation of fires through the coordination between the extinction service and the state's security forces and bodies. And citizen collaboration is also necessary. That is why we have the commitment — and we will do so before the most risky season of this year — to put in place the anonymous phone where to give data to the incendiary offenders. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has one of the best fire prevention and extinction devices. As you can see, Together works intensely in these two areas. I cannot help but highlight, therefore — and I have already spoken about — the great structural change that we carried out in the Council in December 2018, a restructuring based on the creation of a new general direction called Mountain Defence; a general direction designed solely to devote all human and budgetary resources to these two pillars: prevention and extinction, always understanding prevention as the key to focusing on and anticipating the problem to reduce future damage. The necessary effort for prevention requires the union of all — I repeat, the union of all — from landowners to the coordination of all administrations: councils, deputies and the council itself. The Galician Union is very committed to this collaboration between administrations, also fulfilling the two recommendations that spoke of this in the dictatorship, 45 and 54. This collaboration is drawn up in the agreement signed between Junta, Seaga and Fegamp, which will turn us into pioneers in Europe by launching a public biomass management system that will facilitate owners and municipalities to comply with their legal obligations. This agreement has an investment of nothing less than 28 million euros in four years of own funds; at present we already have more than one hundred and fifty municipalities attached; an important figure for an agreement that we signed in December and in what we believe deeply, and that will lead to an improvement that we will all be able to verify this year. After we have agreed with Fegamp, I want to announce today in this House that the agreement will open its accession to all the municipalities of Galicia, because we want to make even greater support for those municipalities. In the months that I have been counsellor, we have worked together with Fegamp to give greater administrative support to the municipalities, in order to facilitate the fulfilment of their obligations in cleaning the fringes around the nucleus of the population of Galicia, being aware of the difficulty of keeping the boundaries of the 37,000 nuclei of the population of Galicia clean. This greater administrative support for the municipalities will be translated into concrete measures, which I am going to list. First of all, the Council of Galicia and Seaga drew up a municipal basic plan for the prevention and defence of forest fires that meets the characteristics of each of the municipalities. Secondly, the creation of a software program by the Board to facilitate the processing of the strip cleaning procedure, the subsidiary execution. But also the elaboration and referral to the municipalities — those with their nuclei delimited — of the planes of the secondary fringes around the population nuclei, as well as the relationship of the cadastral headlines. And also as an important measure, the development of a handbook on the procedure and all the models of requirements to be processed in the cleaning of the fringes, responding to all the mayors of Galicia, irrespective of the political party, who asked us to do so. In addition to this support for the municipalities, the agreement aims to provide economic support for the roses to which the owners of the fringes are obliged, but with a clear, distinct and different philosophy, which also comes from the dictates: that our fringes are sprayed once and for all, and then to develop, as far as possible, agricultural activity in them. To this end, we will devote a portion of the agreement to promoting this activity, promoting pastoral projects, planting of fruit, vegetables or even cereals in the fringes of those villages that meet the conditions and requirements set out in the agreement. We are currently working with Fegamp to determine these requirements. I would also like to point out, in that commitment for collaboration with the municipalities, that the Union has allocated over six million euros in these last two years to the acquisition of new tractors with rodents, to encourage and encourage the cleaning of weeds. But despite all the prevention measures that can be taken in the fight against fire, it is unfortunately impossible to produce any, and that is why we must also invest in extinction measures, and among which we can highlight, we find the following. First, integration into the ad hoc unit brigades device and the increase in the working time of the decontinuum fixeds, which will double their working time from three to six months in the period 2018-2020. In addition, the extinction truck park was also renovated, to which more than two and a half million euros are allocated this year for the purchase of eleven motorcycle vehicles. I must remind you that in recent years we have renewed 66 vehicles. With a view also to improving the device, we have launched in this Parliament the Group of Experts to collect recommendation 60 of the dictation, experts who also remember that they were appointed by all parliamentary groups. I am convinced that, given the experience and qualification of their components, their proposals will undoubtedly contribute to achieving the objective of increasing the effectiveness of our service. This councillor and this councillor defend a public and professional extinction service, and also versatile. He has to work on extinction, but also, and more actively, on prevention. To that end, I want to announce that before the first quarter of the year is over, I will meet with the different members of the service to explain all the changes that have been made and listen to their proposals. And I also announce to them the immediate launch of a service training program in accordance with recommendation 108 of the dictatorship, which will have to collect the demands of the members of the device to advance their professionalization, already very high in itself. Finally, in the matter of fire prevention and extinction, we need a new fire prevention and extinguishing law, we want a new fire prevention and extinguishing law, and we're going to make this legislation a new fire prevention and extinguishing law. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, and I'm going to finish now, this trip to Galicia, gives us a clear conclusion: the future is at stake, so the lines behind our advice are going through the strengthening of rural areas. As you can verify, my board makes a great effort and focuses its work on carrying out the measures of the dictatorship that this House approved; a dictatorship, as I said earlier, approved by the three fourths of Parliament. Let's make rural the engine of Galicia's growing coming, and that can only be invested correctly. This government will bet on making a competitive rural, promoting its economic activity and making the rural productive chain a success for all its components, from the modestst of its producers, to the largest agri-food processing company. We want a rural not only where one can live, but also where one wants to live; a strong rural that is a guarantee of economic and demographic growth; a strong rural that is a guarantee of the maintenance of our customs and traditions. The wager of the Greek Government for the countryside is clear, and clarity is demonstrated with figures and facts, not only with words. Ladies and gentlemen, rural has a future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u89	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Round of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, in that Conseilaria do Medio Rural that presided over Suárez Canal in that coalition government, the rural took up the category of country, of everything, with a Government that had full confidence in the potentials of land and people, a rural that wanted and needed to get out of itself with its own potentials, which were and are many. [[Applause]] And for three and a half years, that advisor's office began to generate its own solutions for its own problems. You came in again and you gave up hope because Ence could not consent; for those who denied and denied the forest and the corridor as the past of what to be reborn could not consent that their businesses were weakened in favor of the people. And so we did, because the model we have today is not what you talked about, that journey is not the one I make every day. It is summed up in a few words: intensity, brutal environmental impact, agrarian desert and more and more eucalyptus. And yet rural has a future for us. Here are the realities depending on the region of Galicia that you visit. The abandonment to which the PP government has been subjected to Galicia and rural is notorious, and it is enough to take a turn, even if it is in tourist class. Not only do we travel, but we live in and out of the countryside. There are about six hundred dairy farms left, and very few of these have a territorial base enough to have the sustainability and the future. The cows are milk-producing machines, old at the third birth, confined to a small space and condemned to swallow into concentrate and turn it into milk and residue, to call it that. And that milk is delivered into the hands of multinationals who transform it, distribute it and pay the producers what they want and how they want it. What is left of us, therefore, in the dairy sector is nourishing in multinational liquid grounded outside the territory, because the People's Party has never wagered by a transformational sector of Greek milk, never! They don't believe in people who vote for them, they're the owners' race! You know, the servants are inferior and they don't even have the value of work. Because, far from diversifying, that is, far from following the patterns that the country itself has made, you bet and bet on the monoculture, or the monocultures, and Ence sends again and condemns the Greek people to aspire to a plantation of eucalyptus as a complement to the ridiculous agrarian pensions. He said, here. However, Galicia's main wealth lived and resided in the fertility of its soil, in the variety and kindness of its climate and in the labor force and adaptation to the midst of its people. Well, you got into these possibilities and you reduced them to what we have: deforestation, abandonment of agricultural activities, aging and claudication. Because many years ago, when we left economic frankness in Galicia, the rural idea of Ence began to function, and the whole agricultural and livestock policy revolved over the forest, and year by year it was dismantling. You spoke of 300,000 acres thirty years ago, I told you a lot more. It was dismantling agricultural wealth in the interest of a rural for the service of four men and against the majority. Galicia has become a great plantation of pine and, above all, of eucalyptus, to the detriment of its agricultural and dairy vocation, and tens of thousands of acres of agrarians have become forest surface, with minimal use. In the 1990s, there were still 15,000 or 20,000 farms left, today there are not even twenty. You agree or not that yesterday and more today a well-sized exploitation, that is, with a number of manageable heads, on a territorial basis according to that number, with little dependence on exogenous inputs is profitable and poses few environmental drawbacks as a sustainable activity, such as resistance to price volatility, as real management of the territory, as a population settlement according to the environment. What's the PP bet? Because this subscriber fails to understand that strange virus has led the inhabitants of this Greek nation to deny themselves. A maze is for the Greek, or it was, a result of centuries of continuous effort, labor, sweat, illusion and shared despair. That maze becomes unproductive in just a few years. The fact of planting the eucalyptus is a capital fool. Well, that Ence virus has also entered our minds. Mr Counsellor, how many municipalities are there in the operation of land-use change or elimination of agricultural protection? You know there's going to be more covert eucalyptus plantations, that is, clandestine. He knows it's a very valuable election propaganda operation for you at this time of election. Are you aware that there is a growing movement of land grab and mountain land? This governance for an unreal country that you practice is also seen in the absence of planning and control of intensive holdings of pigs and birds, which tend to concentrate on comarcas where this concentration and massification derives from situations of environmental impact, with a high density of waste, juries and manure that dangerously saturates lands and waters with nitrates, phosphates and even antibiotics. The lack of recognition of the problem, the circumvention of responsibilities by looking elsewhere and blaming the producers, usually autonomous, and giving as a sole solution the management of these wastes to the land of agricultural holdings, is generating a conflict that is exploding any day in our noses; in all of them, not in their own. And it's the danger, because this situation directly threatens the prestige of other agricultural sectors. They know something about this in the board, and they know what I'm talking about. Because as a result of the problem, of this problem, it's in the lack of planning, forecasting and control, in leaving the sector in the hands of a favorite, a dreamy, that does as much as you want with the present and the future of the swine and poultry, and also with the eggs in intensive. And to say from the mountain!, that living space that for the Greeks and the Greeks has never been, nor is it, synonymous with forest. We don't have that word in popular speech, all the more we have the word in strawberry, which is not the same as forest. This complementary space of agriculture and livestock, that source of such useful resources last year and which is now useless because of its atomization and lack of management according to the new times. This atomization and new sorting was addressed in a spirit of an integral solution by the Block in its Government stage, and that was where it remained! The overrun of this trap for both forest use and livestock, agriculture, apicola, leisure is still unsolved because PP has no country project, because Ence has another destination for this space. Let's be clear! The necessary reinforcement of the neighbouring mountain communities and the indispensable use of community management and management figures — understand me, collective, not the common market — for private property on the mountain leaves nothing to be done until this problem is addressed by courageous, long-term and country-viewed political measures. But Ence sends the opposite and offers poisoned royalties and cheap propaganda. By the way, he talked about a review of the forest plan. It's been hours since he showed up here, because we've been hearing him for years. A pile of wood, of course it is, but not only, that I will tell you! The so soft multifunctionality and also the so cocoaed diversity in wood to forest. We're talking about the nematode of the pine tree and its progression in the face of indifference, with wood burned, affected and still not cut off from the 2017 fires. He's still in the mountain! We're talking about forest firefighters, which are soaking with tox and grass, and which also provide meat to boast. We're talking about wild beasts in freedom and the danger of extinction that threatens beasts and beasts, unique space in the world of coexistence with the wolf, necessary balance. And the administration that allows its maturation by its ineptitude to manage this wealth. Olive trees, kiwis, mushrooms, honey, beans, sheep and goats, cow samples, medicinal herbs, landscape, burial of CO2. What else do you want? Yes, I know, eucalyptus. Our unit of destiny in universality. Are you aware, Counselor, that in our country, there are people who, with very good judgment, work generally leased furrows and produce onion, pepper, French garlic, prophets and crickets, Jews, beans, potatoes... I miss the beauty, which I didn't even find who produced it, but in the orders of help to the damage of the mad pig appears the pretty and no green jew. That's knowledge of the country from top to bottom, yes sir! [[Murmurs.]] It really looks like a joke, but it's not. [[Applause]] Are you aware that this conventional garden sector — and I am not talking about the ecological or high-supply subsistence, I am talking about the conventional garden, that it also uses glyphosate, that which emerges from food chains, that which is forgotten because it has been left out of the aid of the brave pig — left to present the CAP, you have to report the damage in the seventy-two hours in which they occur? Anyone who has 80 or ninety farms will have a whole lot of land to travel every seventy-two hours each of the farms to see if they came in? Don't bother me! Or are you going to surround those ninety yards with an electric shepherd? That's the country's ignorance from top to bottom! Yes, yes, yes. [[Applause]] This sector of what I'm talking about, in particular, is a sector with a lot of future in Galicia, in that Galicia of the thousand climates and fertile soils. It's an economic activity with growing production and transformation and with the possibility of fixing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u92	...non-rural population. So look, to show a button -- that's said -- the recent orders to help and prevent the damage of the mad pig are an insult to these workers. By the way, speaking of the brave pig, he told us nothing of the essential protocols for biosecurity; the serious problem we have — or we may have — with swine fever. He's there, he's knocking at the doors, just as he's knocking at the gates of the Portuguese border with us the nematode; the nematode really, not the satellite lights that blew us up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u94	They're there and we need protocols.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u95	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u96	Well, thank you very much. Then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u97	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Counselor, good afternoon. Welcome to your presence. The legislating of the countryside. In 2016 Mr.Núñez Feijóo launched his third candidate for Galician presidency with this slogan: "X Galician legislation will be the legislation of rural areas." This phrase has been repeated and used methodically, at all times and places, by all the paintings of the People's Party during the pre-campaign and campaign of the 2016 autonomous elections. We must remember that when this took place — straight, 2016 — the candidate of the People's Party, Mr.Núñez Feijóo, he had two legislations, since 2009, as president of the Galician Union; eight years as president, eight years of forgetfulness of rural areas. It's more than eight years of president where Mr Feijóo only cared about rural areas to dismantle the active policies in this state of government presided over by Mr Pérez Touriño. Eight years of active denial of the Greek countryside and its potential and potential. [[Applause]] I'm convinced that the slogan "The Legislation of Rural" was only responding at that time to the negative forecasts of city surveys and trying with that slogan to attract the rural voter to compensate for the electoral fall in cities. That message, "the legislation of the countryside," resounding in the words of that candidate of the People's Party, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, offered answers to those electoral interests. But he also staged an unequivocal acknowledgement that in previous legislations — and it was two, eight years of Popular Government with Mr. Feijóo as president — that the Italian countryside was not in the agenda of Mr. Feijóo's governments; it was not the German territory and there were not the women and men who live in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, this appearance — an encouraging appearance, I would say — was produced past the equator of the X legislation, that is, over the ten years of Mr Feijóo's presidency. Mr Counsellor, when we see so many years gone by, and above all in the countryside, we have been able to use a clear and definitive phrase: "I like you!" The Socialists wait and we hope that you won't be late, Counselor, if you can reverse the situation. In his presence in Commission 3rd to present the 2019 budgets, as far as his department was concerned, we told him that the Socialist Group is respectful of parliamentary courtesy, and, because of that courtesy, we grant him the corresponding grace period. We also told him that the Socialist Group could afford that license, but the rural world — you know — cannot afford that concession. For our part, and taking into account the passivity of the ten years of rule of Mr. Núñez Feijóo with rural, our commitment to grace continues to be effective. We're going to fulfill that commitment, you must comply with the commitment to rural. Ladies and gentlemen, we appreciate in your fair term the ambitious lines of action expressed by the Counsellor, but allow me to be moderately skeptical about your compliance. First, because we have enough examples of commitments made by the governments of Mr. Núñez Feijóo in rural and rural areas. Secondly, because the proposed lines of action need economic support to be possible and real, but the budgets of the Rural Environment Council for 2019 are clearly insufficient and seem to consolidate the forgetfulness and neglect of rural areas. In practice, they prevent the impulse that the Counselor proposes and that he needs the Galician set. They are not enough to address active policies with the dimension needed to be able to revitalize rural life. A much greater budgetary effort would be required to expand rural possibilities in an expansive general context, but that does not happen, and a very limited general framework has reduced and reduced the aspirations of the Rural Council and its adviser manifested in their intervention. They only have the limited possibility of having a very limited impact on the abundant needs of rural areas. The 2019 budgets — totals and partials — corresponding to the Rural Environment do not tackle decisively or support the proposals you have just reported to us. They need to be ambitious with rural projects and strict with accounts, but these budgets don't seem to go in that direction. But they certainly look like minimum service budgets that, applied to rural areas, only make it available to them the possibility of a dubious subsistence. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a return to the budgetary analysis that we have already discussed in the 3rd Commission on the Rural Budget. I do not intend to reopen this debate or inciting it, but we only want to express the palpable incongruence between the generosity of the proposals and the rickets of the budget shares that are supposed to support them. We believe that it is not possible to develop those proposals referred to by the Counsellor in a sufficient and efficient way. And we also believe that we need to establish that link between proposals and budgets in order to make the level of reality visible in relation to the rural environment visible. I think we have an obligation to take the argument to the position that the rural world is able to discern and clarify whether it's accounts or stories. I fear that once again — and it has been ten years since Mr Feijóo presides over the Council of Galicia — the Government wins the departure of the Middle Rural Counsellor, giving continuity to insensitivity with the territory and rural inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, the neighbours and neighbours of rural areas have more and more needs and shortages; they have the needs of the neighbors and the needs of the countryside. And these needs and deficiencies are not solved with our parents and gas stations, nor are they solved with stories, they are solved with proposals and projects that are backed up by accounts, by economic resources. Ladies and gentlemen, what are not accounts is stories, and we believe that the accounts of the Rural Council do not support the lines of action that the Counsellor tells us. Last thought I make in this first intervention. The rise of 3.8% of Galicia's 2019 budgets prevents the momentum needed by the Galician package and restricts the rural environment's possibilities to address active policies that revitalize the rural environment. In this frame is where your department is located: a total increase of 3.8% and a rise of 4.2%. There is no impulse in all budgets, no impulse in the bias of the council. In addition, there are many other councils with higher rise: Social Policy, plus 4.6%; Economy, Employment and Industry, 10.3%; Vice-Presidentship, 4.7%; Presidency, 10%; Culture and Tourism, 6.3%; Council of Culture, plus 5.2%. Counsellor, the budgets do not support the actions proposed to us and that we value them to their proper extent. You don't have a problem with these proposals, there's a problem with rural areas, its residents and anyone who prevents their proposals from having economic support. In any case, he throws the wicked slogan of Mr. President again "this is the legislation of the countryside," so we are skeptical about the realization of his proposals. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u99	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u100	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Good afternoon, ladies. Counselor, you are made a Balbino of life. You hardly started your intervention by not remembering the ones and the ones who still live in the countryside, with that extreme bucolism you started the introduction, because I think you let the reality of the present countryside fall. I don't know if you've been in Madrid this Sunday and you've been soaked up by that neo-fascism that was floating there in the air, which makes you live a parallel reality. But the reality presented by the present - and quite enough - of what you here have told us today. [[Murmurs.]] If you haven't been, you have a point. Counselor, one; Mr. President of the Board, zero. It's true that it's been a short time in the office and that some of the lines that you're exposed here today, the lack of application, at least in intentionality, are not bad. It's hard to see if the lobbyies, the pressure groups you're working with and who respond to that neo-fascism -- because it's also political -- let you carry them out. I'm going to expose a reality here. It is not the reality of this Member, it is the reality of agricultural organisations, producers, agricultural processing companies or cooperatives. That reality is that there is a high degree of aging in our rural areas; they are suppressing all the public services we have in rural areas; the reality of abandonment, of the desertification of virtually all rural areas of the country, and which has its reflection on the destructuring of the territory, which brings together high risks of both large-scale forest fires and loss of biological biodiversity and, most importantly, the loss of social dynamism and economic and cultural dynamism in these areas. And this is all thanks to the policies implemented in recent years by the People's Party: it responds to the implementation of neoliberal policies; it responds to environmental considerations — and this is said to be high and clear — as a currency of change for the benefit of large capital or as a residual aspect of legislation affecting our rural environment; it also responds to the privatization of the management of neighboring mountains in common hands, and it also responds to the promotion and implementation of fast-growing forest monocultures, the promotion of energy crops or megaminary. For you, the consideration of rural is like a place of enjoyment of social elites and application of a common agricultural policy that destroys, to this day, family economies for the benefit of the great multinationals. You talked about infrastructure. Since the beginning of this legislation, we have always urged the Government to articulate measures necessary for the selection, prioritization and coordination of the different instruments of land management that already existed and that you have deleted, as Uxfor can be. We also work by pressing the German Government to boost the innovation of minifundo management with innovative territorial management measures, associative formulas that overcome the fragmentation of the earth and the action of public-private cooperation. We insist that the Land Bank has to be budgeted and fully functioning, something that you have not been able to apply since they're ruling. And something very important: the mobilization of land — which you have spoken about here — must always be linked to the establishment of sustainable and innovative productions in rural Galicia. We don't want a mobilization of lands that come to fill everything with eucalyptus or business that speculates or erupts the territory. You talked about the extensive pasture and what they're going to invest in the Town Hall. I don't know if you know that the City Hall of Cualedro is one of the municipalities that most of the money received for partial mergers in recent years. I don't know if you know that the City Hall of Cualedro is one of the most fires suffered every year. Something's doing wrong. Here was the former advisor — in 2016, as we took possession — of an extensive pasture plan in the Central Macizo area, in Chandrexa de Queixa. Nothing is known about that plan yet. Did you do it? Did it take place? Nothing is known. Exploitations, the garden: the reality of Greek agriculture I think today is very bad, it's little diversified, it's very weak. Every year we have a negative food balance of between nine hundred and a billion euros. An important part is due to animal nutrition, imported soy and maize, but also large quantities of vegetables and fruit are imported daily, many of which could be produced here. And even now the most agronomical land continues to be abandoned or used to forest with eucalyptus. For this, specific sectoral plans for promoting horticulture and fruit production should be implemented. What has the Galician Union done so far? We are despondent of the great potential this country has in horticultural production, a sector that can create jobs and in a sustainable way. Access to the earth through an effective system, as we said earlier, of the Land Bank. Staffing in the field offices: they are now being dismantled; it is necessary to hire staff for these agricultural offices, since many of the attempts of people to start a project in the field eventually end up lying on the ground or failing by an incorrect formulation. The Xinzo Limia Commercial Agrarian Office today is low, and it's one of the offices that most CAP applications have to run. There is no public research and advice. Well, today you've recognized that we have to invest more in research and training. Comrade Antonio Sánchez — not yet half a year ago — took him to the commission on Mabegondo and here it was said that there were still squares, that what was... that's a lie. At least you recognized him. We need to market through short circuits; creation of Welsh warranty brands; public purchase in schools, hospitals or centres of our third age of our products; introduction of proximity criteria and giving priority to eco-products. The topic of milk: we think that the dairy sector is not in a good situation right now. You come here saying that you increased the price by six percent; well, a six percent little remains little. Today, the dairy sector continues to face a structural crisis that needs to be put in place radically different public policies to which they are now being applied. The first step is to make a good diagnosis of the situation, which the Government is not carrying out: every time the Rural Council carries out an assessment of the situation in which the dairy sector is located, we find that it is totally alien to reality. The reality shows us that, despite the announcements made, prices in Galicia could rise, but they are still the lowest in the territory of the Spanish State, where the average is already nearly thirty-four cents. We are just something above — it is true — of the Balearic Islands, which represent less than one percent of State production. And in addition, we have to start with the reality that the Spanish State has the lowest prices in the European Economic Community, that is, we are on the tail of the tail, we are the refugees. The closure of non-stop farms: in 2017 they closed four hundred twenty-four farms; in the last two years, one thousand one hundred twenty-nine. They're almost half a hundred farms that close every month in the country. This is due to the fact that many farms still continue to be charged under production costs. You spoke of a strategic plan. In Marea he still posed questions about this plan last week. What deadlines are set for the implementation of this plan? What measures have already been taken? What budget was executed? You don't know anything. Beekeeping, the mint: the response of the Greek Government to the West Vespa we see that it is being totally insufficient. It's an invasive species with very aggressive behavior. The apicola associative sector is not being taken into account by the Galician Union, when its field technical knowledge could be of great use; then we see the importance of taking this whole associative sector into account in order to carry out these measures. We also see that the Commission is not socializing the work being carried out in the same way, as is the case in the Committee on the Tracking of the Potato — an initiative adopted unanimously by En Marea in Commission 7a — which had to meet every three months and inform the groups, and sent us a written report once. I think you're missing parliamentary agreements, something we're used to. Agricultural insurance: Today's policies are useless. You have to work to adapt these agrarian insurances to the Greek reality. The potato shell — we spoke of it — is, of course, about to start the seed season in this campaign and it seems that the bans in the affected areas will continue to be maintained, but we don't know if it's because evidence from the Tecia has been collected or not. It's totally dark. And the compensation given to these people, ridiculous. The table of the chestnut, the bead of the chestnut. The chestnut table they're going to create: just like that of the elbow, we're not going to fix it. On the subject of the CAP—man, as you have spoken here, Mr. Blanco Paradelo will now come and accuse me of breaking the unity of Spain—the Greek negotiation in which nobody talks about prices. Well, that's what we said; you came here and said that Galicia is going to talk about it. We accused them of not talking about a fairer deal of direct payments; you came in and said yes. We accused them of not talking about the fact that the Greek farms were not going to get the help of the first pier; you came in and said yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u102	You are now in line to make a proper CAP for Galicia — Mr. Blanco Paradelo will put me on the road now, you see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u103	Finish, please, you've got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u104	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. In research and training you recognized the lack of staff. The use of the development potential of rural areas will not be possible without the provision of certain support services which are essential. They are essential for the development of both agricultural and forestry sectors, for the change of production models of livestock holdings towards a model of lower dependence on subsidies, which in this case is latent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u106	We're going to lose ten billion with Brexit and we're going to be affected. In this sense, since En Marea we have asked the Government many initiatives and questions about the loss of human and economic resources in our agricultural training and training and research centres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u108	The Rural Environment Council continues to dismantle public research and training. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u110	Good afternoon. The truth is, Mr. Voicer of En Marea, dear lord and fellow comarca, I wouldn't accuse him of breaking the unity of Spain, but seeing that shameful yellow tie that carries on his shirt I think you certainly are with those who want to break the unity of Spain. [[Applause]] I'd also like to tell you what to be... I don't think that all the day we've been in, I haven't heard any fellows or comrades make any comments to them or blame them for their demonstration on Sunday, none. It seems to us... it seems good to us that you manifest yourselves... [[Murmurs.]] [[Balbordo.]] [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. Lago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u111	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u112	It seems good to us that you manifest yourselves, but it does not seem good to you that we manifest ourselves. They're worried. [[Balbordo.]] And I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u113	Mr. Lake, please. Quiet, everybody. [[Balbordo.]] Quiet, everybody. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Lake, please, you're not in the use of the word; listen to what you're saying, that you're not missing out on anyone's behalf. Please listen. Quiet, quiet. Quiet, everyone, please. I silence everyone and listen to who is in the use of the word. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u114	I meant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u115	Mr. Vega, be quiet. Mr. Lake, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u116	I wanted to say, supported by freedom of expression and democracy, that being at the Colón square means defending Spain, means defending Galicia and means no privilege to any autonomy above other autonomy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u117	Mr. Lago, I call you by order — excuse me, Mr. Blanco — and Mr. Lago, please call you by order. Please don't; listen to what you're talking about. You can share it or not share it, but nobody's missing. So, please, I call you in order for the first time. Please be quiet, everyone. Mr. Trenor, you'll be next. It'll be next; if you want, we'll do it now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u118	Thank you very much, President. Well, Counselor, you've already seen that you can see that the opposition makes another journey, and to me it seems very good to remember advisors like Suárez Canal, who has all our respect. But the curious thing is that the good advisors, the good parties who know the territory, why at the first exchange the Greek people sent them home and took them out of the government? And it turns out that we, the ones who don't know the territory, the ones who don't know what the needs of Galician rurals are, win election after election, and especially in rural areas. [[Applause]] Counsellor, although we have already discussed with you in the presentation of your advisor's budgets, today he comes to this chamber on his own request for the first time since he was appointed Counsellor of the Middle rural part of Galicia. And he did, in addition, by addressing many important news to which I will then refer. He could already see that the opposition groups have come to understand that they care a lot about rural people — I would say that those who are most concerned. Well, yes, but not so much as to ask for his appearance, because no opposition group — I repeat: no opposition group — asked for his appearance. It seems he wasn't on his schedule. That shows how much they care about rural people, or maybe they don't see him too electoralist, or maybe he's not as bad as they say. And they know perfectly well that by discussing with you they need solid arguments beyond the simple and usual sighs. So, Counsellor, we would like to thank you for coming in, face-to-face and debate with the political groups on Galician rural. From your words we have made it very clear that, despite being the People's Party, you feel real pride in rural life, you have an illusion and a passion for rural life, and that's how you transmit it whenever you can. An attitude that we share and that, among all, we would do well to convey it to society as a whole rather than to the continuing apocalyptic messages of some. Counsellor, you spoke about the new structure of the council, geared towards agitating and better channeling the resolution of the problems: a new organizational chart with the creation of the Monte Defence Directorate, which will coordinate all public administrations with powers in the fight against fire and will collaborate directly with the councils in matters such as the cleaning of security fringes. In this way, forest policy will be managed by the Directorate-General for Forest Planning and Management, thus separating, for the first time, forest planning from the prevention and extinction of fires. This seems to us to be an important decision which, in addition to fulfilling one of the recommendations included in the draft study committee, which you, by the way — who will also say so —, before being a adviser, led on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, demonstrating a great ability to dialogue and to reach agreements with the rest of the groups. Values that, in consistency, you keep showing, as soon as you get to the council, you've summoned in your office all the political forces represented in this chamber to listen to us and explain to us first-hand the many projects you intend to develop in the coming years. Even so, in the first few weeks you also encouraged the creation of the commission of experts responsible for the design of the new fire-fighting and fire prevention service, which you also wanted to present in Parliament, in this house. And today he again held the hands of the groups to collaborate and work together. It is therefore fair to acknowledge him and thank him for being with Parliament and with parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural environment of Galicia faces great challenges, but contextualise is needed. Andalusia: "Generational relief is transcendental to the Andalusian field." "The field is tremendously old." "More than 82,000 Andalusians over 65 years old who should think about retirement." Extremadura: "One of the challenges for Extremadura is to support generational relief with the sad reality of rural depopulation." "In 17 years it has changed from 25,093 agricultural holdings to 9,855". Basque Country: or Land Fund, with a double objective: "to avoid abandonment and to make available to people who need land for agricultural, livestock, forestry, etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Castela e León "puts emphasis on depopulation, rural environment and generational relief". "One of the main weaknesses is atomization, so that about 80% of agri-food industries have fewer than ten employees" and advocate the need to articulate more mechanisms to activate the field, innovation, research and seek generational relief. What does this little news school prove? For the problems that the rural part of Galicia may have, despite its peculiarities, are not exclusive to our community, nor are they propitiated by the governments or by the policies of the People's Party, so they constantly want to see opposition groups, who, whenever they can carry out a far-reaching analysis of reality, interested and unwilling to support their pessimistic discourse. Mr Counsellor, while you have made self-criticism and listen to civil society, mayors and mayors — all — the collectives and entities of the sector, and therefore is introducing changes to new projects, opposition groups — as you have just heard — maintain the same speech as many years ago, the old recipes of the past. So, whatever happens, whatever you do, you don't care; so we can't take them seriously. What is your strategy — the opposition strategy —? Well, the strategy of activating the rural translator of the opposition. Counselor, I will now explain to you what this new instrument consists of. If you talk — for example — about the need for Galicia to have a new land mobility law — in which we are working — to deal with the problems arising from the abandonment of the land and the depopulation with the creation of agricultural polygons, to expand the territorial base, etc., through the rural translator of the opposition, and that means: the PP wants to put few people left in the countryside to sell the land to the great capital, the four overseas entrepreneurs. If the 2019 budgets grow by 4.2 percent more than the whole and account for more than 500 million euros, the opposition translator says they want to load the countryside. If the Galician Food Quality Agency — the Agacal — for the first time has its own budget for promoting food quality, the opposition's translator says: they don't bet on our products. They also don't care about training, research and technological development in the food system, although budgets have more than 15 million euros; they activate the translator and say: they want to dismantle everything. If it bets on the impulse of quality stamps, of designations of origin, of wines — they have five million euros — or, as you announced, by launching a strategic plan for wine-growing areas, the opposition translator says: they want to end with the German farm. It does not matter to you, as you have said — and the President — the commitment to ending all processes for partial structuring, which is fundamental to the viability of agricultural holdings and their future development, as well as to the provision of a more territorial basis. It's just that they don't care if they count on 20.5 million euros in budgets; they activate the translator of the opposition and say: rural annihilation. They do not mind that, in order to promote the generational return and boost employment in the agricultural sector — with particular regard to women — and also the fixing of population in rural areas and to prevent the abandonment of farms, there is a programme with about EUR 50 million in budgets; they activate the translator and mean demolition of rural areas. It is the same as they approve, as they did a few days ago, aid for investment in farms, for the incorporation of young farmers, for the creation of businesses, and for that to be spent more than fifty-two million euros; the translator of the opposition is activated, and that is to say, to drown farmers and farmers. They also don't care if you announce a strategic plan for the Welsh dairy sector in collaboration with all the agents to further promote quality; that means, the extermination of rural areas. By the way, I'd like you to say that they benefit the greedy businessmen with their negative message, that please they're constantly transferring that catastrophic message from the sector. If we're talking about CAP reform, they don't care that the council has driven and facilitated the participation and dialogue of the entire sector, and the result of that dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u120	...have agreed a decalogue with the organizations, which has been presented to be included in a national strategic plan. That's for the translator of the opposition: they betray Galicia. Counselor, I'll finish. How important was the study commission, right? As you said, I assumed a great country job: after more than sixty visitors, all groups agreed with most of the hundred and twenty-three recommendations adopted, although later, by political tactics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u122	...only they could vote in favour of the Socialist Group and the People's Group. Those recommendations that are being carried out are, without a doubt, the roadmap that you are following in your advice. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. You have the turn for the reply of the Middle Rural Counsellor, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, when I arrived here as a parliamentarian, many of you were saying that to see what I was doing, with this profile, defending the countryside; if I have now identified myself with Balbino, I can tell you that I feel tremendously proud of being a rural man — very proud — and of fighting for the countryside. [[Applause]] And we should all do the same thing, Mr. Rodríguez, we should all do the same thing, man. I, no doubt, after listening to them carefully—as it could not be otherwise—or it seems that they did not respond to me or that they did not want to attend to me. Fortunately, in this intervention I can emphasize, add, clarify and answer everything necessary and, besides — and this is an advantage of being a counselor — timeless in the intervention. [[Laughter]] I also have to say that another of the advantages of being a counselor is that they give me a lot of arguments to answer all of you, but I almost left them all there, because the speech that some of you have... please! Mr. Rivas, I would tell you from the very first moment to review the legislation, man, that something is going to change, because some of the things you've been asking for from here are you too; some of you will remember them, because at least tell us that they're going well. Mr. Rodríguez had the good news of telling you that some of them were fine. Look — to see if he found what he said, because I noted it: the beginning of his intervention was so powerful of negativity that — I say — if I were a buyer of quality Greek products, he would stop buying them just by listening, Mr Rivas, he would stop buying them. [[Applause]] Look: you have spoken — I have now found you, yes — of intensity in the exploitation of livestock, of brutal environmental impact, of farms that close there, almost unable or able to endure — must be the poor peasants who are lost there, of industry and of distribution seen as enemies. I say, let's see, what company puts your client as an enemy? They're always the same! They'll have to work with them all; we'll have to, among all, help them, but don't make them enemies. Poor prices compared with other communities or countries. And we say: people — greedy people, entrepreneurs and greedy entrepreneurs — with ambition and with a desire to do good things, people concerned about hygienic-sanitary conditions and animal welfare, people — of course — trained and who conceive of their exploitation as a business that has to achieve profitability — and we can talk about the price, we will talk about the price — people who interpret greed as an activity that sets the population in rural areas and who must also act as guardian of the territory, proud people, Mr Rivas, of their milk, with exceptional quality. We have the best laboratory in Spain and probably Europe, the LIGAL. [[Applause]] You know, ladies and gentlemen — and I've been this week, yes, and I invite you, through the 7th Commission, to visit you if you don't know him — that the Interprofessional Laboratory of Analysis of Milk makes each of these seven thousand — that say they're so few — Greek farms... do you know how many controls you're doing a month? Fifteen; all the Greek milk is controlled by LIGAL. But besides, the tanks that go to our industries in our territory are also controlled. That's what we have to value. There's no product that has a higher quality and a higher health guarantee right now. And here we are all talking about a dark theme, that this ends, that disappears. I would tell you that when I speak, Mr. Rivas, when I talk about farmers and livestock — of course, in the elections, in rural areas, it doesn't work very well — don't say I'm just from the Block, because I'm also from En Marea, I'm from the Socialist Party, and I'm also, of course, from the People's Party, too! And we, too, will understand that if I'm from the People's Party, we don't shock them — as you say —. [[Applause]] But I, as an advisor, already take fifteen visits to exploitations — otherwise – and I can tell you that this scenario that you are moving here does not correspond to reality, and you know it. Mr. Rodríguez, I welcome you a lot of things, but this is extreme neo-fascism... extreme neo-fascism! Because you can talk about Madrid, you can have an opinion, but man, you can't just throw extreme neo-fascism on us. You don't take the whole rural representation. Look: I was told here, first of all, that it is necessary to mobilize the land. I was also told that there is a lack of territorial base. But you didn't hear my speech? If you want, I'll read back to you all the difficulties we have in the territorial structure of Galicia: I spoke here of a commitment I have made as a counselor, which is already made manifest and therefore I again commit here. And by the way, I have to thank the magnificent work the People's Parliamentary Group is doing to draft a law of recovery and the value of Galician agricultural land. Can you make a greater statement of principles? Can you say that we're going to fight for more agitating the leases of the Land Bank? Can you say that we're going to work to get past agrarian polygons, gainful polygons and forest polygons? No doubt about it! And without any land grabs. Because, as the recommendations have said — and I beg you, even if they have not been voted upon, to read them, because they are collected there — these projects must be made available to the land holdings to establish territory. We're not talking about big companies, which, by the way, you already know we already have one more in our idea; before it was Ence, and now there's a real dream, that could clarify us Mr. Rivas what that dream is. Coren. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz: Run!]] That is, the cooperative that recovered the whole territory of Ourense and that was able to get out... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u125	Quiet, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u126	...the whole Ouransan agricultural sector is a dream, a dream, Mr Rivas! Well... well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u127	Quiet. Whoever's in the use of the word is the counselor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u128	"Ence's Rural Ideary." I haven't had the opportunity to speak with the owners and with the CEO of Ence yet, but, when I have the opportunity to meet with him, I'll ask him that rural idea to see if he or she has any reference. It also speaks of the elimination of soil of agricultural protection, but caramba!, have you not heard that we have the catalogue of high agricultural and forestry productivity land? But don't you know that it was In Tide who asked us to do it? For we have heeded them: they were right, we collected it in the recommendation — although they voted against that recommendation — and we are working on it. In that catalogue, we know that Galicia has two million eight hundred thousand hectares of rustic surface, and we have to distribute land for forest, land for farming and land for livestock. If you ask me, you have to recover useful agricultural area for farming, without any doubt. I would therefore tell you that in this "removal of soil of agricultural protection" -- now the example of Curtis, I told you yesterday at the Agrarian Council -- they are totally wrong, Mr Rivas; totally. And you'll see, because what's going to happen here is that the facts will become manifest, and I can assure you that you are wrong in full. You're still out there, you're not safe; at least in that realm. Well, before I forget: of course, Mr. Fernández, I really appreciate your intervention. There's just a little bit of detail: this of "pleasant tarde" and the comparison you made. I understood, and it seemed to me well, that I didn't want to talk about budgets, but in the end it was a bit of a matter of budgeting in comparison with the other advisories. But I would ask you to keep that period of grace, and I'm going to tell you why — and also the Socialist Party — why everything I talked about here today are recommendations of the dictatorship that we vote for you and us, and therefore I ask you to follow that line, because I think that's what we thought at that moment of reflection that we had what could lead rural Galician to that future that we all hope for. So I ask you to keep that trust. We are working everywhere: today I announced here, about... because I thought this was going to be this intervention: come here to announce what we are doing; not what we are going to do, what we have already begun. So, I, when I talk about the high-productive agricultural and forestry land catalogue, could tell you about the budget that we already have on the table and the work that will be done; when I talk about the German forest inventory, which was a historical demand of the sector and which we are drawing forward, I can also tell you about the budget. And by the way, it's going to be done with the university in Greece. So I'd ask them to keep that trust. I would also like to thank you for the work that Fegamp is doing at the convention, because there is an important issue that affects us all, and I would like to stop at it, which has already been, in the course of the recommendations, a matter for which we were all concerned. Because this issue of fires can lead to things, but it can also lead to people, and we have to work on the security fringes around the population nucleus. And in that work around the population nuclei, in those fringes, we're going to put on the table -- which are money or, at least, it looks like me, because I think public money is finite and you have to be very careful with them -- twenty-eight million euros, and what we did with an agreement that was already magnificent was fit even more to what the municipalities ask us to do. The councils asked for greater administrative support, and what do we tell them? At the convention, we're going to make the basic plan for municipal prevention and extinction, and I'd ask them to talk to the mayors of their municipalities and not to spend the money on it, because we're going to do it, within the agreement. And I also ask them, those who are missing from joining — which are over one hundred and sixty —, all of them cling, because they are all advantages. Look, we're also going to make plans for the population nucleus fringes; we're going to make them ourselves. Why? Because since June, and with the Territory Institute of Studies, we can do it more centrally. You won't be able to be right away for everyone, why? Because the nuclei have to be delimited. But to all those municipalities that have the nuclei bounded, we make the fringes and, in addition, we have identified the catastral headlines. And besides -- man, I think this is important -- we're developing a computer program for all the clean-up processing of the fringes, which will be done on board with the Amtega, and will make it available to the municipalities. But isn't this important? How do we have to talk about the past and what has not been done with the issues we're announcing here? On the other hand, the agreement — as you know — is that, with public funds and public resources, we are going to go into the cleaning of the fringes, which is an obligation of the owners, but we are going to try to clean around the whole border with a purpose, ladies and gentlemen — and, indeed, they are all created because I believe it too, but we also have, among all, to convince ourselves and try it —: we have to get, when the fringes are cleaned, that then they do not get cleaned, because we have to implement agricultural activity there, and, to prove this, in the agreement — and we are talking at the moment with the Fegamp — we are putting money from the Galician Union so that we can develop this agricultural activity. There will be places where you can develop pastoral care, and we will close them; i.e., in a village we will close all the perimeter so that you can make pastoral care within it. Is that good or is it bad? They criticize these things, they don't come to me with things from the past, and let's talk about what we have to do to get our rurals back. We understand — and I also want to say clearly — that, although the project is ambitious, we cannot reach the thirty-seven thousand nuclei of population. We're going to do it a little bit, but we have to encourage all that cleaning, so I'm saying people's protection. So, Mr. Fernández, I would ask you to keep your support. Mr. Rivas also told me about the forest plan review. Look, I've made a commitment to dialogue and to try, as far as possible, to reach consensus on things. You have to keep in mind -- and I've also told you before -- that two general directions have been made -- where there used to be one alone now there are two. The forest plan went to the General Directorate for Forest Planning and Management; we have a new director. He asked me to read the Forest Plan, he asked me to adapt it, as far as possible, to the guidelines that were made on his day. And I have to say yes, of course. On the other hand, by collecting the claims from the sector, we have, or have started to do, the forest inventory of Galicia, Mr Rivas. So the forest plan would have to match the figures in the forest inventory; I think it's logical. In any case, this advisor's commitment is that when this forest plan is completed, before its approval it will pass through Parliament. It's a commitment, you can point it out, and if I don't do it, you'll put it on me. He was talking before the woods, I don't know which forest. When I say we're developing, according to the recommendations of the dictatorship, the concept of "model mouth," I'd have to tell you that it's an international concept, this advisor doesn't invent it. Precisely, the Director General of Forest Planning and Management was what put me on the table the concept of "model mouth", which begins a few years ago in Canada, and which has been developed by other European countries, and also in Spain. We want to start by showing how we have to make a forest in which there is a diversity of tree species; here we do not support anyone — nor do we — the monoculture, under any circumstances. We're talking about a multifunctional mount. Listen, you see, but the extensive pastoral plan isn't multifunctionality of the mountain? Mr. Rodríguez used to say that there's already been talk of a Central Macizo plan. Look: in the next few days — I would tell you that before March 15 — we will present — and I will invite you — this pastoral plan; of course, there will be pastries in the Central Macizo, but also in the Qualedro. What does it have to do with spending a lot of money in the quailedro so that the quailedro is a place systematically affected by the fires? And, besides, in those partial mergers that tell you one of the problems we have at this time in the rural of Galicia. Do you know which one? That they are abandoned and filled with gestures; that they burn, in addition, recurrently. So I think — and correct me if I'm wrong — that it would be good to take those gestures off and put pastries on so that there would be an extension. Thirty acres, with money from Galician board. We're going to close up, and we're going to make these 300 acres available, oh, from the big company? No, those 300 acres we're going to make it available to the area's owners. Well, I, if you like, ask them for political adscription, but it shouldn't be a thing of it; to me what matters is that they are people of the territory and that I made there population. So I have to tell you that there are those sheep in there to be able to do it. Mr. Rivas spoke to me — it is that today, Mr. Rivas, he has given enough of his intervention — and said one thing that if it seemed interesting, and I have already told my people: we must obviously see whether in the order of damage to the boar — although it is not the competence of the Rural Councillory, which is the competence of the Environmental Council — we have not put the green Jewry and put on the boniat. But don't worry, we'll make a mistake correction to get the green jews too. But he told me about the nematode and that there are uncut wood. Yes, of course, of course, what you have to do is -- and there are also block mayors -- talk to each other so they can support us with the particulars that we have difficulty getting in. And besides, do you know what's going on in that area, too? Point out what you want, Mr. Rivas, but all the cuts that had to be done by the Galician Board are done, because before you warn people — and we have no problem with the data, sure — that, by the way, is what we did, we worry about it. And now we have a few hectares — which can be quantified — of private owners. And you know what the fundamental problem is? Ilokalizables, the great problem of the Italian countryside; the difficulty that minifundism brings with it is compounded by the ignorance of the property. It's just that we can't act in many places because we can't. For this reason, the law of recovery and value of Galician agricultural land will attack from the roots of these illegalizable ones, will put in place the research faculty and, at the same time, that research faculty will be launched, which we can start to manage these lands through the Land Bank. By the way, that research faculty is going to be ours, it's going to be Welsh, not the state, and that's what we're working for. I hope the Bloc is not against the fact that the research faculty is from Galicia and not from the state. They also talked about short marketing channels. Mr. Rodríguez, I would tell you that there is an order about to be published by the Agader — if you would like, I will pass it on draft, if you want to make any contribution — on short marketing channels, budgeted with forty-fifty thousand euros in 2019 and forty-fifty thousand euros in 2020. He spoke of an area that I'm particularly interested in, that of the garden, which, of course, hardly exists. We have IXP: we have peppers, we have the IXP of the cricket, and yet we are not getting that sector to work properly. I think the food crafts decree will put a hand on it, but still, I asked my people at the Food Quality Galaga Agency to study the possibility of getting a protected geographical indication for the Welsh garden, because I am a defender of the quality of the Greek products. All the Greek products that give us and make us feel proud as Welsh are in the designation of origin IXP — protected geographical indication. You all know why? So that we can support them precisely with the promotion and defend them against any kind of fraud. So I think the garden has to be there. I especially like the garden as a dynamizing element of the territory. There's also another product that I find very interesting and that can help us with this dynamization of the territory. Do you know which one? The Greek bread. That's why we want to take forward the protected geographical indication of the Galician bread in which — and this too is a compromise — a very important part of your cereal if it is going to demand that it be planted in the Greek territory and that, in addition, be of native varieties. Why? [[Applause]] To promote that mobilization. And don't worry, that it won't be for any realignment; we take anti-racing measures in all the law. Besides, I make it easier for you: propose measures, we have no problem with that! There's enough problems in the Greek territory so we have to work together in the mobilization. Look, Mr. Rodríguez, there's something that -- I'm not gonna lie to you -- I was ready, because I knew what I was going to say to you. He spoke of transparency and a desire for dialogue — that there was no—, obscurantism and all this history. There's one thing that I'm worried about what he said, and if that's how we'll fix it, but I mean it. Agrarian council: in one hundred and forty days, twice summoned. The Forest Council has already been convened; they meet with all the sectoral organizations and all the agricultural professional organizations without distinction of any kind. The Potato Bureau has been summoned — if you haven't got the information, we'll get it to you, I'm telling you, I've already asked. It's called the Chestnut Table, which has to be a dynamizing element of something as important to us as chestnut. It is the working group of the CAP; we want to be the first autonomous Community in Spain to set up this working group to bring us forward. By the way, when I was talking about the fact that we are now defending the Greek farmers and livestock — we always did — we just said that it was not the time in Europe to talk about it. When I was in Madrid 15 days ago, I defended, among other things — and I was the only Autonomous Community — the historical rights of the Greek farmers and livestock, and I also defended, within the conception of a Genuine farmer, you know what I defended, the multiactivity. Because here there are farmers and part-time farmers and they'll continue to be, not just professional farmers, who also miss us a lot. And we have to count on that traditional activity of our farm. We have created the working groups — not called Strategic Plan — we have changed their name to the dynamisation strategy of the Welsh milk sector. Look, I haven't said that it was extremely well in the dairy sector, I'm saying the numbers differently than you give them, and what I'm saying is, since 2016, we've been watching a recovery. Are we satisfied? No, no, no, no. What do we have to improve? Of course! Who's got to tell us how to improve? The sector. We therefore call on the whole sector to work on this strategy of dynamizing the Greek milk sector. It's them, through working groups. I'll give you the names, I have no drawback. Mr. Rodríguez said before he had met with you, I'd like to meet again. And even if we want to incorporate into the dynamisation strategy of the Greek milk sector the parliamentary groups, we have absolutely no drawback, on the contrary! But to contribute, eh!, to give everyone. Now there are already people in the council, there are people in the university, and, of course, there are people in the sector. We spoke yesterday at the Agrarian Council with all the representatives of the sector; some of them very closely connected to you, I suppose they would inform you. We also have maximum consultation with all forestry associations without any distinction, we talk to everyone. Man, I don't think I lack transparency and a willingness to talk. I think that in these one hundred and forty days I've been an advisor, much more I couldn't... I've given myself time to meet with almost fifty mayors, but for a long time I can't live. So, in front of a vision that I have to say, really, that is frankly depressing, Mr. Rivas... I don't want to fight you, you know me, and I don't want to fight, but I think you should think about it. If they have to do something, they criticize this counselor, but they don't criticize Galician rural. If you have to do something, criticize this counselor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] If we can't or can't achieve the goal we want, which is that Galicia and all of us are proud of our rural, then they will have to call us responsibility. But I say — and I conclude with this — that the Italian countryside has a future and that the future of the German rural is going through profitable economic activity. In addition, this future that we are going to see is carried out with the parliamentary mandate that has given us to the Committee on the Study of Forest Reform, where a compendium of measures that, if we are able to implement them — and I would ask them for their support to apply them — can revolutionize our rural area, so that rural areas are a place where, in addition to living in it, we can also live from rural. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u129	Thank you very much, Counselor. We've opened a special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] You have the floor on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, they play with advantage: two voices, unlimited time on their part... we're, at last, going to have to do it telegraphically. First I have to tell you something so if I'm really upset — that's the fair word. We don't criticize rural people, we criticize their view of rural people! And we criticized what you've done in the countryside for a long time, yes! [[Applause]] Besides, I don't come here to pour flowers, obviously. [[Applause]] Just like you didn't do it when the Councillor of Suárez Canal was in the Government. Of course! What's the matter is that you don't remember that anymore, do you? Look, look for unguided visits, they're really the only ones. You go all of a sudden, come in, take some rubber boots -- these katizikas -- between where they don't wait, ask without identifying, and you'll know the reality. And you'll know the despair of a lot of people who are going to plant farmland yes or yes because you have no other solution, because you don't give them another solution. You spoke of the cost of production and spoke of the prices of Andalusia. You tell me, are the companies that sell milk in Andalusia are Sisters of Charity? They're sisters of charity who pay them more money there than here, which costs them more to produce. I just don't understand! I really don't understand, because the business world isn't like that. Let's see, I thought you came here to talk to us about the agrarian polygons, the gander polygons and the forest polygons and sprawl them; that is to say, give us a good lesson from what they intend to do. He didn't say a word. Land mobility remains unknown. Look, of course, yes!, of course, land mobility is the million, it's the center of possible rural recovery, but you haven't invented it. You had her put in the closet, locked with twenty keys, so you wouldn't see her, and now, as they're tight, pull out. What we want to know, at least from BNG, is how they're going to do, because we're really suspicious. The years and years of free movement of the People's Party make us distrust, and we have a right to that. Or nematode? I'll clear it up. The agreed mountains were the last to make the posses—the ones who made them!— And Mr. Fernández Couto said -- that's what Mr. Fernández Couto said in committee, don't deny me! -- that they had a lot of bureaucratic locks to be able to do it. Elimines! You can't afford to let the nematode progress and ruin us. Of course, they can't afford it, and they've been thrown out of Europe! The territorial base is essential in this country, both for that garden that you have recognized is almost nonexistent but it is willing... you know how to support the garden, right? With grants. He leans on himself to make his life easier and doesn't put crosses on his way. Do you know what you think they're on their way? Well, they can't rent, because that's the situation of land that allows them to work but without rents. He knows they have one read here and another there and another there. Do you know that you paid the boring onion last year from Betanzos to 1.60 to the producer? It's profitable! It's profitable! What you have to do is promote the existence of that sector, and favor the existence is aupalo, meet with them and tell them, what happens?, and face reality cruelly and seek solutions, which do not seek them. The Agacal — heir to the Ingacal — we ask Mr Fernández Couto how he left the Ingacal, as he left this country's investigation. Spoliate! Deserted! I'm so glad you guys come here now and try to do something. I'm really very glad. Lights? Order! Have courage! Mosaic? Order! Do the rest of the masses. This is written not only by the BNG, but by everyone who understands something from the mountain. But you don't dare, Ence's behind! Look, eleven years later, you'll get the tracks back. And make me a malignant grace, will you close? Will you make perimeter fences in the tracks? Where are they gonna get the money? Or are you going to do a couple of them as an example, to put on Galician propaganda TV? Where are they gonna get the money? Of course, man! You spoke here -- or I misunderstood, that it might also be, that sometimes when I'm going through I get wrong -- about the dictation and the Fire Service, but you broke the dictate, because before the expert committee met, you were already reforming the Fire Service, or not? Which shows that we, well, we vote against because, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u132	...why? Look, if we keep the same speech apparently, it is the fruit of its failure, the failure of the policies of the People's Party. And as for the idea of Ence, ask Mr. Carlos del Alamo, he knows quite well about it. He's in Madrid but they can travel. As long as they travel to other things, they can also travel to this, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u134	And passing through can be fruitful. And a little more. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, you are not informed, because the opposition groups — and Mr. Counsellor can corroborate you — were to ask for 15 or 20 days ago to attend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u136	He told us he was going to show up and we stayed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u138	...with all the education that is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Counsellor, the Greek territory — you know it well — shows a manifest imbalance between rural and urban. In the urban area, 20% or 30% of the territory, lives 75% or 80% of the population; and in rural areas, 70% or 80% of the territory, lives 20% of the population. You have manifested that you consider rural all over the territory; I have heard it several times. I could use that proposal or your opinion, but it's very obvious the differences between urban and rural space. The reality is that Galicia shows a well-known stage of weakness in a wide area of territory, despite the well-known strengths available in the same area; I'm talking logically about rural areas. The so-called rural environment advances in the depopulation and abandonment of lands, identifying more and more, and sadly, with desertification. And this is not a negative message, this is a palpable reality that we all know and should recognize. And this manifest imbalance between rural and urban limits and even reduces the overall development of Galicia in economic, social, natural, employment, environmental, etc. It is therefore necessary — and I believe that we all agree — to shorten this negative momentum of depopulation with active, clear, effective and evaluable policies that promote the drive of rural areas. This is the scene of his counseling, and this scenario has been permanently weakened for many reasons, also for the inaction of governments and, singularly, by the manifest passivity of Mr. Feijóo's governments, which implicitly recognizes this forgetfulness when he throws into this legislation the phrase "the legislation of the rural." That weakness of the rural environment is visible and palpable, it's not invented. In a few years, in the matter of services: less public services in education, health, transport, the issue of the proximity of the administration, etc. And fewer services also private: fewer banking offices, less pharmacy, less liquor stores, food, taxi service, proximity trade. What am I going to say in population?: less children, less boys and girls, less population in their whole. The consequences are clear, with no generational relevance on agricultural farms, abandoned land and livestock and a tendency to desertification, as I said earlier. Counselor, you don't need warmers anymore, you know that. I know we haven't made it easy, and I say this plural because responsibility is everyone's; it's true that some more than others, but it's everyone's. There are basic issues in the council itself, which you also know, but which should be remembered. For example, the partial concentrations, which are eternal — if you have said any —. Just as a review, look, last week, the Socialist Group registered initiatives on a partial concentration that began in 1991 and is not over; it's been twenty-eight years. Also in the management and increase of the useful agricultural area or in the territorial base — as we would like to call it — the precariousness of the proximity and counselling services, which has already gone out before, as far as the comarcas agricultural chambers are concerned — a great information service. Lack of efficiency in calls for aid and grants: within the time limit of any request, in other resolutions, and in the perception of aid by beneficiaries in other cases. There is a manifest failure to comply with the Dairy Convention. And there are also basic topical issues that need to be dynamized. You said some: Land Modernization Act, Land Mobility Act, Forest Reform, Reorganization of the Fire System, Strategic Plan of the Milk Package, Strategic Document of Galicia for the new CAP in the common agricultural policy. There's more, you know, these are just a sample of the abundant work that remains to be done; and all these issues we must and can address. We can address these issues in two ways. We can approach them unilaterally by the government, as was done, for example, by legislative amendments through the 2019 Tax and Administrative Measures Bill. Let us remember that through this procedure, legitimate, the People's Group that sustains the Government made eight amendments to the Law 3/2007, of prevention and defense against the forest fires of Galicia; it made an amendment to the Law 6/2011, of land mobility; it made ten amendments to the Law 7/2012, of Galicia Mountains; and made three amendments to the Law 4/2015, of improvement of the agrarian territorial structure of Galicia. Twenty-two changes of laws that affect rural people unilaterally. It is possible to address, as I say unilaterally, but it can also be addressed through a participatory process of shared commitment, as was done with the Non-Permanent Special Commission for the Study of Forest Policy Reforms and the Prevention and Extinction of Forest Fires and the Galician Forest Plan. Counselor, forms are also important, you know that. And they're also important in a shared and participatory process. For this process you can count, as I say, on the Socialist Group, with the aim of dynamising rural areas and overcoming the budget deficits that should speed up this process...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u142	...but they're not present, and these deficiencies, in fact, prevent this from being the legislation of the countryside. Abrams among them all, at least the door so that this rural legislation can be achieved in the following legislation. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u143	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u144	Thank you, President. Mr. Blanco Paradelo spoke of fascism and the manifestation of the other day, and the counsellor too. You've manifested yourself with fascism, you can disguise it as you like. I'm going to read you a record of the first August of 1936, which says, "Don Serafín Rodríguez died in unpopulated on the day of yesterday at 24 hours, as a result of firearm shots by fascists in a state of war." You've shown yourselves to these people. So [you're the People's Party of Falangia.] This is true, and this, Mr. President, is my excuse for you not to expel me every time I call the People's Party. [[(Expression by order of the President and the aberration of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u145	No, no, but that's inaccurate. I think it's inaccurate. It's totally inaccurate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u146	Mr. Norberto Uzal, who was the general director of the Public Service... —just tell me if I'm confused......until a very little while ago, he was bannerman of Mr. Rueda, and he's got Falanxe's card. Besides, I don't think there's been much of an act with him. [[Murmurs.]] So they don't want to hide from their past.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u147	Let's go to the countryside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u148	On the appearance, Mr. Paradelo, I think the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego told him clearly, we would ask the counsellor to attend. We were going to ask the audience to explain a number of things to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We told him in good faith and he told us not to ask for it. Now that you come here, you accuse us of not asking for the counsel's appearance. There may have been no communication between you, which may also be. Quadaledro. You hit the nail. How much have they invested in the quaaledro in partial restructuring? They're full of gestures, something doesn't work! Something's not working. It's not your fault, you just got here, you're right. It's the fault of those who used to be. I don't blame you for what you just came up with. Now, if they go through there, we don't know, because possibly some of these quaaledro plots end up being sterilized by Coren's waste that they no longer catch on the threshold. And, look!, we're not against Coren, we're against the waste management model that both the Rural Council and the Environmental Council have to do and are not doing. Today the territory of the Limia is bearing a load of waste equivalent to 1,600,000 people in one region. They have to do something, they're poisoning the territory. They're allowing it, not poisoning it; they're allowing it. The forest plan. There's a new CEO, there's two subdirectories, he says he's reviewing things. It can be good, as long as it reduces that increase that is collected from eucalyptus, as long as it prohibits energy crops, etc. And on the fires, man, the privatization of the service is still there. Natutechnia, the jobs of UME in these fires, the county brigades don't know very well how they're going... I think this year they're going to go the same way. Nothing removes a county from privatizing that service. That also makes the Public Service for Prevention and Defense against Unoperational Fires. What happened to the agreement of the agents who signed the Rural and Environmental Council? It hasn't been carried out either, but they still owe them the guards two years ago. They owe the guards, some agents, of the year 2017. That's true, and you know that. Emergency plan and municipal fires. All right, but that's already collected in article 7 of the 2007 Forest Fire Act. That article is being collected. What do you want to invent now? Why didn't they execute him? They've had all these years to do it and, for now, it's not done. Only 50% of the municipalities are acceding to the agreement with the Union and with the Fegamp. And other municipalities, and many of them are also from the People's Party, they're not joining. Why? Because they're going to have problems with that agreement. Two general addresses. It's good that Mr. Couto's competency is taken away before he explodes the hot potato on the subject of helicopters, which is going to jump, and if the forest fire business unearths. Mr. Fernández said so, and he also nailed the spokesman of the Socialist Party: we have less and less services in rural areas. And you may have a great deal of good will since the Conseilaria do Medio Rural, which is not going to support other initiatives on the part of other advisors, it will be worth the moment that you want to invent the gold and the moire if then we don't have anywhere to go to a doctor. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u149	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To clarify the request for the appearance, you yourself recognized that twelve or fifteen days ago they spoke to the counsellor to ask for the appearance. Well, they lost to ask for their appearance in October, the month of November, December and January, four months; four months to ask for their appearance! And I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u151	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u152	The other advisors don't even give you time to breathe. Mr. Rodríguez, at the last meeting they asked for, would tell the former advisor that, being the country's legislation, she was the advisor who had come in the least and who was a shame. You said it, I've got it here. But it's been four months and you don't agree to asking for a visit, that's what they're interested in talking about the rural environment in this Parliament! Look, I think resentment and nostalgia aren't good fellow travelers, so you guys on your trip come all black. It's that nostalgia of the Bipartite, that any past time has been better. I don't think that's good for you. I'd like to tell Mr. Fernández, of the Socialist Party, just a nuance. You've been all your intervention talking about budgets. I don't know about you -- if we compare it with the budgets of the Galician Union and the State budgets, which we hope will not be approved tomorrow -- that it seems to you that while the Galician Union had more than 9% of the regionalized investment, it now goes down to 6.22%, I don't know what it looks like, when the Galician Union budget grows and that of the Rural Middle. And you said insufficient budgets, minimum service budgets. I don't know, think of a qualification for Mr. Sánchez' budget with regard to Galicia. To me, really, surprise, and I missed some of the Indonesian Members... Mr. Rivas, are you now against Coren? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, they didn't. Look, we're talking -- and it's also going to Mr. Rodríguez--
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u153	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet, quiet, Mr. Rodríguez, everyone else has been... No, no, we must respect the word. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. Please. No, because when he spoke to you, no one bothered him. No, no, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm gonna have to call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u154	Reyezuelo called you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u155	Besides, we've got you and I waiting for a clarification.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u156	Look, Coren is a successful model of agriculture that has over 7,000 jobs between families, cooperatives and workers. And it was created from below. It began in 1953, Eulogio Gómez Francheira and today continues his son. I wish there had been many more franchisees in Galicia, I wish! But how can you say that? [[Applause]] How can you say that? Mr. Rodríguez, I insist again, you have not made clear to me that Galicia benefits us that shameful yellow bond that you wear in your jacket. I don't know how Galicia benefits from Catalonia's independence. In budgets what we see is that Catalonia earns 724 million euros, rising from 13% to 17%, and in Galicia we lose budgets. I'd also like to tell you about-- I don't understand, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] It's very difficult to trust a speech, it's very difficult.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u157	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u158	I'm replying to you. The legislating of the countryside. Look, here I think there also exists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u159	Let's interrupt, if you like. Let's interrupt the full one moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u160	I'm answering you what it means... Mr. Rivas, you have to fit, man, you have to fit!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u161	...if not, I can't... silence. Quiet. Mr. Rivas, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u162	But you talked about everything you wanted. As far as rural legislation is concerned, that concept, I think some of them were confused. When President Feijóo said that this was the legislation of the countryside, he didn't say it was the legislation of the Conseilería do Medio Rural. You, Mr. Fernández, in your dialectical trap spoke of the loss of banks, taxis, boxes etc. Why don't you recognize zero taxes on transmissions in the years of this legislation, on purchases in rural areas? Nothing. The nested houses to help reconcile, the new public transport service in rural areas, the largest houses, the wide-band in rural areas, the rehabilitation aid in rural areas... is that whether it's working for rural areas or not working for rural areas? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And on a subject that concerns you very much, especially Mr. Rivas Cruz, I regret that you don't have a fit and that you show that little democratic heel. Look, about changes in land use agrarian to forest I wanted to clarify, because it's not appropriate to alarm and exaggerate. The number of applications for forest-to-agrarian, forest-to-agrarian, by the respective provinces, was as follows. In Ourense, 199 applications; in Coruña, 130 applications; in Lugo, 1,565 applications; and in Pontevedra, 46 applications. In total, 1,900 applications. This is the reality of changing forest use to agrarian, and not another. So, Counsellor — and I am finished, President — we believe that you in all your speech, and in your second speech, have been continually appointing the commission and dictate it. That's the roadmap, that's the workplan, but as you said, it's not the plan of the People's Party, it's been a roadmap made by more than sixty visitors that for four or five months we've been working together. I think it must be done once, Mr. Rodríguez and Mr. Rivas Cruz, to say that you have not joined that agreement by political tactics, but, many of those initiatives that you voted against, then lead them to the committee in the form of a PNL. They just add up to the deal! And I ended up saying something to him, making a reflection, because I was personally disturbed by Mr. Rodríguez de En Marea. If you're in a bar having a beer or a wine and it turns out that some people are coming in that you know they're going with the meat or that they might have some identification from some extremist group, left or right, would it be fair that I told you: "Hey, you're going from canes with the Falange or are you going from canes with the extremists?" So don't be demagogues and let everyone exercise their right to manifest themselves. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u163	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Close the show, Counselor of the Rural Environment. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rivas, 28 million euros at the Fegamp and Seaga convention — I do not translate it for any special reason — is 4,700 million pesetas for some closure. We will budget in that agreement at least EUR 1 million for these actions, to begin with. I'd like to make it clear that Galician farmers, farmers and owners are not exclusively from the Galician Nationalist Block, and the Galician Nationalist Block and its organizations are not the only ones listening to Greek farmers and livestock. In this time I've been a counselor, I've had the opportunity to visit — without having any ready visits, because I'm also dedicated to it and I like it — and to have meetings in Coristanco, in Valdovinco, in Folgoso do Courel. I've been meeting with the D.O. Regulatory Council. Lower Rivers. I have also visited, and that is why I can talk about them, Sergude, Mabegondo and Pedro Morias, to which we will, of course, become the focal point for the formation of ecological agriculture throughout Spain, at least in the north of the peninsula. I would tell them, ladies and gentlemen, that these minutes listening have made me reflect, remember the measures of the dictatorship, the measures we have put into practice and the ones that are about to come, and continue without understanding how it may be possible for a fourth of the House to vote against it. It is more, noting who voted against and seeing what concrete measures were voted against, one comes to the conclusion of the disaster which would be for the Greek rural environment that the Middle Rural Counsellor was in the hands of the Bloc or the Marea. [[Applause]] If I were a councillor of the Rural Middle by the Galego Nationalist Block, ladies and gentlemen, I would be against promoting sustainable forest certification and management. It would also be contrary to the fact that the wood used in public buildings and infrastructures powered by the Autonomic Administration comes from sustainable forest management and has any internationally accepted certification stamp, because it had to be German. I would refuse to encourage the use of certified wood from sustainable forest management for the rehabilitation and construction of homes when supported by public subsidies. I wouldn't be, if I were from the Block, according to making it easier for the landowners located in the strips around the population nuclei to fulfill their obligations by the possibility that they will delegate to the Town Hall or Seaga these jobs for a fixed price, we are saving them money! It would seem to me wrong to support the grouped and professional management of the neighboring mountains, the grouped and professional management of the neighboring mountains!, giving priority in this management to the mountain communities that are registered in the register of active forest farmers. It would not seem appropriate if I had been a block advisor, who had moved, had checked and demanded, through this instrumentary body of Seaga, the development of municipal plans to prevent and defend forest fires. It would also be incompatible with promoting the development of an active forest management for the improvement and increase of the carbon-fixing capacity of forest masses, and that this capacity is a factor that is taken into account in the incentives that public administrations regulate by environmental externalities in the mountains. I would be against another recommendation that it has to have our mountain biodiversity and it has to have different forest masses, not to mention mosaics, I didn't want to vote in favour. And it would also be against — and this... command trick! — to encourage new formulas, for the joint management of the mountain, in addition to the Sofor, based on any legal figure of a commercial, administrative or associative nature that promotes, pushes and initiates joint, sustainable and diversified management initiatives of the mountain. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had been advisor to the Middle Seas, I would be against turning the public management of mountains into a sustainable forest management reference, focusing on those mountains where production is highly conditioned by environmental or cultural values of general interest, or on the mountains classified as protectors. Nor would I agree to collect in a single legislative text all existing legislation on the prevention and extinction of forest fires in Galicia, I think it would be better if it continued to be collected in the accompaniment law. That's why I committed myself here, in this Parliament, to having a new law on the prevention and extinction of fires in Galicia before the end of the legislation is completed, suitable for reality. It would also be inconsistent with the figure of the active forestry, understanding as such individual owners, mountain communities, forest-owner societies and forest sectors that manage their property, individually or collectively, with criteria for sustainable forest management. If I had been advisor to En Marea, I wouldn't accept incentives in forest restorative actions and forestry treatments to aid the natural regeneration of leafy cadifoli — they voted against this!—, subsidizing through the RDP. Nor would it support the impulse to the progressive management of the protection strips around the population nucleus, beginning with the most fire-threatening areas. It would be, as I warned, that agricultural activities such as protection zones would be carried out in those strips. Nor would it be to create, as we are going to do, a council of communities of neighbouring mountains for the representation of communities, for the defence of their specific interests and for the consultation with the Administration. We don't want to make them disappear, we want to create, and we're going to create, this council of communities of neighboring mountains. Nor would it support the recovery of the use — Mr. Rodríguez, stranger — of the burns controlled outside the maximum risk period for the reduction of fuel accumulated on the mountain. And also not to ensure that urban regulations include the provision of protection bands as a requirement for the expansion of rural nuclei. If I was told about centralizing in Agader, in the Galician Rural Development Agency, the coordination of all sources of information about the Galician rustic property, trying to improve the exchange of information between the different databases, I would say — if outside of En Marea — that the rustic catastrophe is a miracle, it is not. I would also not support the development of specific aid for rural populations in relation to the maintenance of certain types of activities necessary for the conservation of certain types of habitat. Nor should measures for environmental payments and ecosystem services be given more weight. I would also not be in favour of the implementation of a forest surveillance network that, through video surveillance cameras proportional to the incendiary activity of each place, helps to identify that incendiary activity. Because, ladies and gentlemen, new technologies have no transcendence in the extinction of fires, they cannot be used. And, of course, I wouldn't agree with promoting the development of an active forest management for the improvement and increase of carbon-fixing capacity of forest masses. But, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately I am not a counselor like what I just told them, but what the parliamentary mandate is developing, and will develop, all these recommendations. And I'm not only in favour of everything I just said, but I'm also convinced that we're going to get all of this forward, looking for a joint response between all the links in the chain involved in the rural and the Greek hills. Ladies and gentlemen — and I will finish — the rural needs of us and we need rural areas, and what we do in rural areas over the next few years will mark the future of Galicia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, even if it is difficult, I ask you to make an effort; an effort that is no other than to work together for the future of our rural life. Together we will make a much better rural, together we will make a more rural Galicia, a Galicia with more future and a more proud Galicia. We have to get the pride of being out of the country. And I'm done as I started my visit today, saying that rural people have a future and that the future of Galicia must pass through rural areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u165	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Tellado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u166	On the basis of Article 76.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, for allusions affecting the decoration of the House and the dignity of our group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u167	Yes, yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u168	Here it was said that there was a concentration this Sunday in Columbus where the People's Party participated together with the Spanish Falange, and that's clearly a lie. The Colon concentration last Sunday was called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u169	Mr. Lake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u170	...by three political forces: Popular Party, Citizens and Vox. To clarify to Mr. Lago that, if he is able to shut up and listen at any time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u171	Mr. Lake, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u172	...you should know that Spanish Falange manifested himself at another point in Madrid in a completely different protest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u174	So I wanted, President, to clarify this matter to you, because when someone brings to the Chamber dead of the year 1936, probably the debate in which you are participating has lost it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u175	This will be recorded in the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u176	Of course, no one will find in this group any people who take pictures of themselves or of terrorists, drummers or bullets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u177	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. That was clarified.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u178	And, of course, we're not going to draw ties supporting hitters either. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u179	Thank you. Your time is up. I also have to say something, and since I'm not sure, I'll check that it was exactly what you told me when you handed me this paper. If it's true what I think I understand, I tell you in advance that I don't engage in any fascist party. I understood something similar when he told me this. Since I'm not sure, I'll check it out. I don't even militare anyone who's in this Chamber. I'll check it out. [[Applause]] No, no, I'm not saying it sure, I'll check it out, because it was a time of some confusion. Well, if you'd like to clarify, I'd like to. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez speaks words that are not perceived.]] And that he didn't consider himself a fascist to anyone here. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u180	At no time did I say that none of the ranks of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u181	Silence! Quiet, Mrs. Paula, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u182	At no time did I say that none of the members of the People's Party who are here militarized in any fascist party, the only thing I said is that you accompanied fascism in a demonstration and that members who had positions in general directions of the People's Party less than ten years ago had Falanxe meat. That's what I said. And, therefore, they were talkers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u183	Silence! That's it, clear. We continue. We're still on the agenda. Motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on the defence of the Galician Union, in the political and institutional spaces and in the agreements it carries out, of human rights, of equality of women and men and of self-government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u184	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u185	Mr. Villares has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u186	Good afternoon, ladies. Companion Davide de Manzaneda, who makes it clear, there are two extreme right: the old extreme right, which is the Spanish Falange, and the new extreme right, which is Vox's. Not with the old extreme right, with the new extreme right yes. That's the difference that made you clear, isn't it? [[Applause]] Thanks to Mr. Tellado's clarification, we begin with the defense of this motion. The full past — you see where the thing goes and you see where it goes, the Vice President of the Galician Union, questioned by En Marea by the pacts of the People's Party with the far-right news, with a negationist political force of gender violence, xenophobic and calling for the abolition of autonomy for Galicia, said that the Union did not pronounce itself on the question because it was not pronounced on subjects that did not affect Galician or Galician Union. It was therefore surprising that a member of the Government of the Galician board wasted any opportunity to defend the right to equality between women and men and the defence of equality policies and against gender-based violence practiced by his own department. You might wonder if there's no more macho violence in Galicia or if you're in line with the claims of your government partners in Andalusia. It was also surprising that Mr. Rueda wasted the opportunity to defend the fundamental rights of all citizenship and reject xenophobia and racism from his government partners in Andalusia. Does the president share Vox's xenophobic speech? We didn't understand why he kept quiet. And it was also indecent, in our opinion, that the Vice-President of the Galician Union wasted a magnificent opportunity to defend Galician self-government and the need for autonomy against its government partners in Andalusia that demand to suppress autonomy, also that of Galician self-government. Does it share this position or the People's Party of Galicia? Does this matter affect the self-government of our country? Doesn't it affect the government itself and this House? Obviously, it wasn't the problem that Junta didn't want to talk about what didn't affect her, which is that she didn't want to say what she wasn't interested in, which are different things. He made it to hide the pacts of the People's Party in this chamber with the extreme right because it erodes his centrist and moderate facade and leaves to discover a façade that is the result of a decade of government: anti-autonomy and political extremism, negation of autonomy and now rocketing with the negationists of machismo. To cover up this shame—this shame of complicit silence—the Government has invented an excuse, a lie, and it is that it does not pronounce itself on matters that do not have to do with Galicia. But since lies have very short legs, Thursday itself the Vice President of the Galician Council ends an institutional statement saying on a topic that did not affect Galicia, which was a proposal for mediation for a dialogue between parties in Catalonia. The Galician Union officially took an institutional note on this issue. So we don't understand if they have no competence to pronounce themselves on the macho, xenophobic and antiautonomists of Vox and if they have it for a proposal that nothing had to do with Galicia either, when the other one we think we had to see. The case is that now, ladies and gentlemen, we already know that they use the Board for what is right for them, and that they can pronounce themselves on what is going on inside and outside Galicia. And, therefore, since In Marea, we're going to give them today, with this motion, a second chance. We are going to give them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the opportunity to sit on the side of equality, fundamental rights and political autonomy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you will have the opportunity to choose to be on the side of fundamental rights or racism, on the side of equality or machismo, and on the side of self-government or dictatorship. The first question we bring here — and it is part of the operative part — is the one concerning fundamental rights. It is an allegation against racism, xenophobia and the suppression of the most basic standards of coexistence. The statement is very easy: to defend in all political and institutional spaces the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to reject covenants with political formations that promote social confrontation, to question the fundamental principles of coexistence and to encourage discrimination and hatred of the different in the way of politics. The second is the right to equality between women and men and the rejection of the negationist ideologies of machismo. It is a minimum democratic essential, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the proposals of those who want to remove the punishment from the criminal code, from those who want to withdraw the aid to victims of macho violence and from those who think that women should be tied up in the house to serve the boy. The statement is clear, and says: "Defensing the right to equality between women and men, and recognizing the need for policies of positive discrimination and fighting against macho violence, rejecting pacts with negationist political forces of the existence of the patriarchate." It's not that hard to support when you believe in equality and fundamental rights. But when you lie down, the problems come. The People's Party, with Nuñez Feijóo in the head, had to make a decision this weekend: to be at Compostela with Galicia's citizenship, claiming and listening to the request to increase rights for better public health care, in which no one remains without emergency at urgent care waiting for a doctor, or without medicines for his illness, a health without waiting lists, without emergency collapses, with sufficient resources not to leave anyone behind, seeking and listening to the request to increase the demand to increase rights for better public health care, in which no one is left to wait in emergencies waiting for a doctor, or without medication for his illness, a health without waiting lists, without emergency collapses, with enough resources to leave no one behind anyone behind, to defend the dignity of the health personnel with health care at their work, and, above all, the right that we have all as society to look after our patients when they are sick, whether they are sick, on the one side, or on the one side, on the other place of communication means of communication in Madrid, that same concentration, I would convene — and I would convene — and I would summon the words — and I will bring forth with the words — and will, bringing peace, bringing forth, bringing to peace, bringing to peace, and peace, giving, giving, giving, giving, to their, to their ef, to their ef, to their ef, to their em upon, to peace, to their embla upon, to their colleagues, to peace, to peace, to their colleagues, to the once once once once once once once once once once once once once once once once once once once, to show, to the once once, the best, the best, the logos, the best, the best, the advantage, the once once once, the best, the Europeans, the Europeans, the Europeans, the advantage, the advantage, the best, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the success of, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, the advantage, And Mr. Núñez chose, and in our opinion he chose badly. He chose hatred and confrontation rather than life, people's health and decent working conditions. And that's why they probably vote today, not at these two points in the proposal, because they lack, in our opinion, political courage. They have a political cowardice consistent in concealing their democratic principles, which we are convinced they do. We're convinced they have them, but they hide them, they conceal themselves to fall sympathetic to their extremely right-wing partners in Andalusia. Ladies and gentlemen, hiding under a flag not to defend equality between women and men is inappropriate for those who claim to defend democracy. To hide under any flag to avoid condemning hate to another is a disappointment to all the people who trusted you in Galicia. The third pronouncement of this motion, ladies and gentlemen, should be the pride of any parliamentarian in this House, and even more so for the President of the Galician Union himself. And he says, "defending Galician self-government by rejecting pacts with political forces that call for the removal of our autonomy." How difficult is it, ladies and gentlemen, to stand on the side of Galicia and its self-government institutions? For Mr. Feijóo, it seems so. Why? So we will have to conclude that Núñez was a politician who at the bottom never believed in Galician autonomy and self-government's ability to generate well-being. He was an advanced student on the reactionary Spanish right, the one who always accepted autonomous Spain when he had no more remedy. And there is no need to go to the adoption of the Constitution and those who voted in favour and against Title VIII. Nuñez has his own black story in the Autonomous Galician. To begin with, ladies and gentlemen, the Galicians and the Greeks remember the betrayal in the statutory reform, being the leader of the opposition led the "no" to the reform of the Statute, the "no" to collect a letter of social rights, the "no" to increase fundamental rights, the "no" to expand competences that would improve the living conditions of the social majority in our country. It was ultimately an act of treason to self-government and the well-being of the social majority of Galician people. A position, ladies and gentlemen, that for Núñez was not simply one not wanting to go unnoticed while in the opposition, but it was a constant for ten years of government, his old-fashioned, anti-autonomous and recentralizing effort was a constant of these last ten years, so the balance of competences transferred to Galicia in ten years was zero, zero!, a black decade in the history of our contemporary autonomy, a zero, which is the note it deserves, as a consequence, in the matter of transfers as President of the Galician Union. During the time — and I would like to remind you — that he ruled the People's Party in the State, and with Rajoy in front, seven autonomous communities increased their competitive ceiling, seven! And for Galicia there wasn't even the first one. Why? Because Núñez actively prevented him. Galicia was denied the improvement of self-government because it didn't create enough in either Galicia or its autonomy. During this decade, Galicia could be at the Champions League of Autonomous Communities, we could be referents of the State, with a modern, social status, with competences, managing its resources responsibly, generating income and wealth, employment and well-being, generating future expectations so that young people would not have to emigrate, as they are doing. But none of this interested him. That's why we're in the queue truck today, not only in the development of the railway but in the development of autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, the time of the ambiguity of this government is coming to an end. If Mr. Feijóo wants to parade with the trident of the ultra-right under flags, in some pre-constitutional cases — some of his companions — in order to make good the statement and not call me to order — like last Sunday, abandoning his duties as President of the Council of Galicia on an institutional journey, let him do it, but let him stop doing so as President of the Council of Galicia. You can't serve Falange and Galicia at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u187	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I will soon explain the amendment we tabled from our group. One of the intentions, one of the goals that we had from the BNG to present this amendment, where we made some additions to the text, the decisive part presented by the En Marea group, was to put names and names precisely on some of the issues that Mr. Villares now addressed in his defense of the motion. The first was to put names and names, precisely, those political forces to which the resolution itself refers, the decisive part of this motion, and to speak directly and explicitly of extreme right, as Mr. Villares was now doing, to put in writing and refer to that political force, to those political forces with which the People's Party walks and talks these days, of mobilization in mobilization, in the capital of the kingdom of Spain. Then we also wanted, as far as the second point of the resolution is concerned, to once again make explicit reference not only to those political forces of the extreme right-wing negationists of the existence of the patriarchal system but to the issues they are defending, among other things — and so on in our amendment — that derogation they intend, which defend those forces of the extreme right-wing, of organic law 1/2004, which has so much cost the feminist movement to win, that Act of comprehensive protection measures against gender violence. Not only is it denied the existence of the patriarchate, but it is committed directly against the rights of women, and it is intended to repeal that Law of comprehensive protection measures against gender violence, that organic law of the year 2004. It is also true that, reading the resolution of the motion and listening to the political and institutional debate, the social debate, to me, reminded me of that popular proverb of our country: "After it will come who will do me good," or at least try to make me good. And the disruption of these far-right political forces, little cosmetics, very disillusioned, seems to want us somehow to doucify the recent history of the People's Party itself and some of the absolutely retrograde positions, and absolutely misogins that are keeping above all the leadership of the People's Party at the state level. Because speaking of gender ideology is spoken by Mr. Casado, president as far as we know of the People's Party, the highest political leader of his lordships. To talk about political recentralization, to question our country's self-government self-anemic self-government, to remove the competences in education, in health matters, to take them away from the German Government, in the Council of Galicia, and to make it the most of the political leader of his lordships of the People's Party, Mr. Married. But we can also look a little further, and see what the recent history of the People's Party is. Because I sometimes think it's asking for pears in the hayloft, and it's good also to refresh a little memory. I've taken three examples from recent history. The People's Party voted against the Divorce Law in the 1980s, they voted against a law that was "extruder—to the daily sessions—, anti-Christian and—a novelity in the argumentary—that attacked the unity of Spain". To divorce, decide freely whether to join or not the other person. They voted against the Abortion Law — now they want to put their hands back on women's bodies. [[Applause]] They voted against the 1983 project, remember? They took them to the Constitutional Court, declared this unconstitutional project, introduced amendments and passed the Abortion Act in 1985, and again voted on the People's Group against that abortion law. In the law of 2010, of course, radical opposition to the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy. They manifested themselves, and now they intend to return with an absolutely patriarchal and macho thought to decide on our own bodies. They voted against the fundamental right of people to marry, to marry those who want to. They voted against the Egalitarian Marriage Law, they also resorted to it again before the Constitutional Court, violating — I insist — the fundamental right of anyone to marry whom he desires and to get in bed with whom he wishes. We introduced, besides, one, two, three people, whatever they want. And I think it's good to remember, because it looks like we're installed in the idea that behind it will come who will make me good, and I think sometimes we've lost a little focus and the perspective of who we're debating with. Finally, we have introduced an amendment which we understand complements, at least, the sentiments of the Nationalist Block of Wales in connection with that defence of self-government — although incorporated and limited — of our country, by rejecting, of course, any kind of covenant, as formulated in the resolution part, with political forces that do not recognize the existence of our country as a nation and, therefore, the rights inherent in this condition, the political rights inherent in our nation's condition and of course, being positioned against any recentralizing offensive launched from Madrid and against speeches and policies that promote, among other things, the perpetuity of discrimination and violation of the linguistic rights of the Greek people. We should also remember and remember that it was the People's Party that banned imparting mathematics or physics and chemistry in Greek in this country. They were the first to heed those fundamental rights inherent in our people. And I say that with any political force that launches a recentralizing offensive, but I repeat that with whom they should first break alliances is with their own political leadership in Madrid, which is the first that is calling into question the limited self-government of our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion because, at the end, it talks about democracy, self-government and equality. We've been from the Socialist Party almost a hundred and forty years defending these three principles and we couldn't do the opposite now. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And of democracy, because it speaks of rejecting all kinds of pacts with political forces that undermine precisely that democracy, they are already in the right, like VOX, or they are in independence, like other Catalan forces. Because we truly believe that only within the democracy that we have given ourselves, after forty years with the fascist dictator Franco, will we be able to live together respecting human rights. The second part of the first point speaks precisely of respect for human rights. And I wanted to quote the president of the Government, who said, "Policy makes strange bedfellows. Independentism will vote against good social budgets for Catalonia and the right against good social budgets for Spain." And speaking of human rights, this democracy must not be so bad because the European Court of Human Rights itself does not condemn us too much. I'm going to quote the Galician Environment Attorney, who said that we should take a look at these judgments. In France — which is a democratic reference — 66 million people, from 1959 to 2017, the European Court of Human Rights convictions were 728. Spain, in the same period, 103. That means, if you ask for the defence of human rights precisely on this initiative, they're not so bad in our country. Then it's equal, and I'm going to quote Mr. Casado: "If we want to fund pensions and health, we must think about how to have more children and not how to abort them. The morning, when you see the pension system and the health system, then some who call us so protective of the culture of life will start to think that we were right." Apart from the ignorance of these statements, it would be good for Mr. Casado to look at Burundi's data, where women do not abort, have children and do not abort because they want, when they want and how they want to because they do not have that right, but obviously there are no pensions in Burundi and there is no public health of quality as in democratic countries, so his hat falls. And we don't know very well where you are, because Mrs. López Abella just said the opposite: "The current legal situation of the Abortion Act is appropriate." Of course, when the Secretary-General of Equality says one thing, Mr. Casado says another, and Mr. Feijóo — who we don't know if he's here or there — says nothing, because we don't know very well where you are. Because you guys in 1980 were in these demonstrations against the Abortion Law. And in 2010, when the law was reformed, they were in these demonstrations, curiously carrying signs with Mr. Rajoy. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows you a picture of her ladies on the benches.]] And there was Mr. Abascal, ah!, who, curiously, was a militant of the People's Party and is now militating in an extreme right game. And we don't know where you are, we don't know, or we think you don't want us to know where you are. [[Murmurs.]] And that happens precisely to self-government, which is the third of this motion's requests. When Emilio Pérez Touriño was president of the Galician Council he promoted the reform of the Statute of Autonomy, asking for more powers, and you voted against. In recent years — almost ten — the President of the Union has not asked the State for any competence alone; and by quoting Mr Aznar, zero level competences. Moreover, he, Mrs. Ana Pastor and Mrs. Mariano Rajoy — the three pro-Glebians — watched the AP-9 transfer to the Congress Bureau. He said in November last year: "It is necessary to rethink the model for the transfer of competences in the field of justice". And only 15 days ago, he said that the Joint Transfer Commission had to be set up but he voted in the Commission against the transfer of competences in the area of trafficking. Of course, we don't know where they are! It's true that the Antroid is next door, and it's good to dress up something when it's asked for more self-government, but you're not really thinking about more self-government. With that from here and there, a disguise that would be good would be Coco's — that character that was going out in Barrio Sesamo — that said: "I'm here now and now I'm there." Well, maybe you're right in that costume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the spokesperson for En Marea because it is difficult to find, even in the long history of this Parliament, a text with so many and extensive falsifications, such as those which are being considered today. A fallacy — you know, your lordships — is an argument that seems logically valid, but it is not, so it leads to deception. I take it very calmly the duty to undo this brilliant collection of cliffs that have just presented, not without referring to a paradox, because today's in Marea what brings us here is a text for this House's groups to reject pacts with political formations that promote social confrontation and promote hatred. To me it seems paradoxical — or contrary to logic — that whoever presents this proposal to us is the group whose founder and fundamental moral referent has said from this same forum, beginning with the legislation, that the PP is a brigade of demolition, ethnic cleansing, ecocidal or ethnocidal, and ending with the legislation says that we are all using the absolute majority as the only party of the Nazis. I find it paradoxical that they are against the hatred and violent language of those who present this initiative, when there was very little, in the debate on the state of autonomy of the past autumn, they voted against a motion for a resolution — 40 of the PP, which was supported by the Socialist Group and not by the En Marea Group and the Bloc — which said textually that "Parliament ratified its commitment to democratic coexistence within the legal framework, political pluralism and with respect to the legitimate discrepancy of all political options. And that's why Parliament condemns all kinds of actions or demonstrations that contain verbal or physical violence and promote confrontation, hatred and undermine people's rights." They voted against it, and I find it paradoxical that you come with this. [[Murmurs.]] As I also find it paradoxical that this initiative which represents those who in recent years have inoculated in Spanish society the virus of populist confrontation: caste, the ones below, the ones who command, the ones who like it... and now seeks nothing less than to be set up in moral reference on the decency of covenant politics that can have political forces, as much as they are covenants that have not been made and how much it is with forces that are not in this House or we expect them. Because political pacts are exactly what we're talking about. And of political pacts that, when they're public and transparent like all those that have signed the People's Party during their political life, either with Catalan nationalists or with what you refer most recently, in Andalusia, is what this motion is all about. And present it to see if we fall into the trap, like that bishop to whom the newspaperman eager for headlines asked him if the night before he had visited a house of lenocinium. Well, we're not going to fall into the trap and I'm going to dismantle their fallacy, at least the two most important. The first one, to convert the part into everything. You pretend to assume that every time a group signs an agreement with any other party, it means that it assumes everything the party thinks with which a deal is signed. This is as if I interpreted, for example, that since the BNG deals with the PSOE and the Tides govern a deputation; since the BNG and the Tides are against the existence of the MPs, the PSOE is against the existence of the MPs, which is not true. And that's exactly what you're doing with us. [[Murmurs.]] No one, when they sign an agreement, and that agreement is public, agrees more than what is signed in the agreement, and not what they propose, outside the agreement, any political force with which an agreement is signed. Moreover, democracy is to sign agreements precisely since the discrepancy, because I suppose that the fact that we have agreed in this legislation, in this plenary session, after various discussions, 64 PNLs of the opposition, 24 of En Marea; and in Commission 204 of the opposition, 60 percent of the total approved, 69 of them of En Marea, does not mean that In Marea and the People's Group do not maintain their profound differences on so many other topics; for example, how we agree or intend to continue to agree on issues of violence. There's a second falsity in the motion, that of the false dichotomy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a false dichotomy to link a pact to support the declaration of human rights or self-government. So false is this dichotomy that even the Block had to amend it, because in its literal content, as the Block actually does not support self-government — which very legitimately demands a sovereignty, an independence — if we vote on its literal content, no one could agree with the Block. And I've got a deal with the Block for the sake of Galicia and I think I'm still doing it. The Lady of the Block told us it was what we had not voted for; it was done that you didn't vote for the Constitution, you didn't vote for the Statute, and you didn't vote for the European Constitution. And the European Constitution brings me to the pacts on international rights. It is necessary to specify that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights — which says that we are next to the false dichotomy that presents to us, if we do not vote on its motion —...first, it is a declaration — as its name indicates — and the legal instrument that incorporates the Spanish legal system are the international pacts of civil and political rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights signed in 1966. Who incorporates them into our legal system? In 1977, a minister who militated and was a member of the People's Party, Mr Marcelino Oreja. The second instrument that makes Spain an explicit protection of human rights is the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights of the Year 1950. The Council of Ministers that decides to incorporate this into the European Constitution — that the Bloc and En Marea vote against — is President Aznar. This is in line with the Treaty of Rome and there is a referendum in Spain. Who asks for the vote on the text incorporating the convention as a right directly applicable by the courts in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u194	Who asks for the vote in favour? The PP and the Socialist Party. Who asks for the vote against? The Group of En Marea, Left United, Anova and all the others. Of course, I am not going to deduce — it would be the same falsity — that because you have not voted on the European Constitution, you are against the European Court of Human Rights, of course not! But what is true is that since the legitimacy that gives me to be in the party that has driven the signing of all these human rights agreements, in the same way that since the legitimacy that gives me to be in the party that has driven the Statute, which began with Autonomy, which has built autonomy with the Government of Albor, which has consolidated it with the Government of Fraga and strengthened it with the Government of Nuñez Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u196	...you will understand that you do not fall into your fallacy. Mr. President, one minute. I'm done. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u197	Half a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u198	As philosopher Lévy recently said — and I refer to Bernard-Henri and not Andrea — the enemy on the radical right is not the left, which, far from what has been said, does not offer a unique response with a sanitary cordon in Europe. There are many countries in which rule the radical right, for example, in Norway, Austria, Finland, Italy or Greece, where Syriza — and you were the Galician Syriza — has been ruling in the forefront with a radical right party, the independent Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] In this context, some left-wings have committed and make the mistake of adventuring the phantom from the far right to mobilize their...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u200	...and kick those who want to slide to their extinction the great parties...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u202	... liberal conservators who built Europe. It was the mistake that Mitterrand made... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u204	...he put Le Pen in the Assembly and ended up voting Chirac. It was the mistake that Susana Díaz made, took out VOX in the debate and ended up losing the election.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u205	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u206	You don't fall into that mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u207	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u208	...they will lose their votes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u210	...and he'll only win the radical right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u211	Thank you. Author group of the motion, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u212	Don't say the radical right, man! say the extreme right that nothing happens, that we all know what you're talking about, Mr. Puy. [[Murmurs.]] Look, if you're okay with the first point, there's no problem. We vote for points, vote for the first and vote for the second. See if we make life easier and make pacts easier! Because almost all the pacts are acceptable in democracy, but not all of them, and that's what they came to tell you from all over Europe, members and leaders of the People's Party — and responsible, not irresponsible — from the Merkel Government itself and from the Macron Government itself, when they warned them that not everything was worth everything, not all the pacts were worth. They were not valid with forces that materially contradicted their values and political practice: precisely democratic principles, democratic values. There are places where they rule because they have most of them enough, but when they don't, most of the political parties in Europe have chosen not to favor that normalization of political forces that advocate hatred for each other and which in some cases advocate supremacy. We do understand that it's a dichotomy, and in some cases the dichotomy is very clear, and it's just that you can't be for machismo and equality at the same time. It doesn't catch us in the head that there's no dichotomy there; it does exist dichotomy there. So, whether it's on either side or whether it's on the other side, because the policies either go on either side or go on the other side and, therefore, you can choose which way you are on. You spoke of the European Union and of that bad European Constitution, which, as we both know, was not a constitution, was an international treaty. How would we support an international treaty, the European Constitution — the so-called "European Constitution" — which, in view of the Spanish Constitution, which recognized in Article 35 the right to work, recognizes the right to seek work? That discount of rights for us was not acceptable, of course. Look, ladies and gentlemen: we are not centralists; we can be sovereignists, other autonomists, other nationalists and there will be federalists as well. What is not — I hope there aren't them here, in this chamber — is abolitionists of autonomy. That's what we hope we don't. We are not racists or xenophobics; we recognize ourselves in the immigrant because he is a human being just like us, but, besides, with special sensitivity, because we have been — and we are now — people who continue to live and suffer emigration. But above all, we are not machos and, of course, most of the people who have voted so far are not. So on Sunday, the vast majority of the Galicians and the Greeks, even the voters and the voters of the PP, were overwhelmed by seeing Nuñez Feijóo paraded together with the forces of the old and the new extreme right, or the radical right, or how he wants to call Falange Española and Vox, in a speech of hatred, of machismo, of xenophobia and negationist of our autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to stand, the time of ambiguity is over. You can't be autonomist and centralist at the same time. He endorsed the pact with people who denied Galician autonomy and who, in fact, wanted to dissolve this parliament so that all decisions would leave Madrid. You can't be a democrat and fascist at the same time, you can't hold in your hand the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in another way go from the hook of the ideology of hate on a march accompanied by Falange Española and Social Home, no! You can't be centralist and extremist at the same time; you can't defend the rights of homosexuals and at the same time deal with those who deny family models other than heterosexuals, you can't be feminist and macho at the same time and you can't deal with those who deny the existence of gender violence, because that's to put yourself on the side of the executioners, the murderers. To protect the victims by reducing the Machist crimes to simple crimes of threats, injuries or murders among people who are unknown is to deny social machismo, and to excus men by the acts of Machist opens the door to annihilate all politics of equality. To legitimize, encourage and look at demonstrations that carry masculine hatred with their words is to get out of the field of the most elemental of democratic values, which is that of equality. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the demonstration on Sunday moved the People's Party of Galicia to the pre-democratic cave. Get out of her, please. They leave her before innocent people start to suffer the consequences of their excesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u213	About the amendment? Do you accept the amendment? [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Villares. I would like to address Mr Rodríguez Estévez, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. I have the exact text of what you said here, I'll ask you what opinion you deserve, and if you withdraw this. I don't read everything, I read what happens to... "So, [you're] the People's Party of Falanxe. This is the truth, this is my excuse for you not to expel me every time I call the People's Party." Do you keep this? [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll call you in order. The expression is removed. The expression is removed and I call it in order. Watch out, no doubt, against the decor and dignity of the people. I don't feel identified with that nor anyone in my group or anyone here. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry. I gave her the chance, she won't say I didn't. Do you keep it? Good. Next motion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, you have to know what's said here. You have to know what's said from here. [[Murmurs.]] It's very important, we all listen. [[Murmurs.]] Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luísa Pierres López, on the position of the Parliament of Galicia and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u214	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Seas and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro Araújo, through her spokesman and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau.Additional amendment.The following points should be added to the resolution:"8. Start, during the first half of the year 2019, the launch of the parliamentary agreements taken on 12 April and 11 September 2018, on the preparation of a Greek macro-enquisition on the incidence of macho violence throughout the life cycle of women, and take note and take part in the preparation of this one to the Non-Permanent Study Commission for Equality and Women's Rights.9. Progressively increase the budget devoted to equality policies by increasing it to at least 1% in future budgets."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Additional amendment.The following must be added to paragraph 1 of the resolution: "For this purpose, the Galician Meeting commits itself to:1.1 To refer to the following assessment within the next two months through the working group established by the Galician Board within the Interdepartmental Equality Commission to follow up the implementation of the measures included in the State Covenant, in respect of the degree of compliance during 2018, and to discuss the same in the Galician Parliament, to which groups may submit proposals for resolution.1.2 Subsequently refer, or incorporate as addendum into the forthcoming annual report to the outbreak of the Fourth State Act of Violence, by May 27, 2016, the party to the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. to assess the scope of the implementation of the State Covenant by the areas involved in the prevention and treatment of violence against men.1.3 4. Demand at least double the increase in local government accounts in the 2019 State Budgets, as well as the reformulation of the distribution criteria to take into account the specificities of our country such as dispersion, the high number of population entities and aging so that Galicia no longer be discriminated against in this respect.".Additional amendment.The following must be added to paragraph 3 of the resolution: "Completely, check the quantitative and qualitative cost of the cuts driven by the People's Party since its entry into government in 2009.".Amendment of amendment. Paragraph 6 of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"For the follow-up by Parliament of Galicia, the Galician Union undertakes to facilitate points 1.1 and 1.2 as well as an annual debate on this matter, as orally committed by the Vice-President of Galician Union.".Amendment of amendment. Paragraph 7 of the resolution must be replaced by the following: "Auto-evaluate its degree of compliance with the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (the Istanbul Convention), opened the signature since 2011 and the consequences for the Greek women of non-compliance by the State in order to claim internationally measures to force their compliance."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u215	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u216	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all the ladies and gentlemen. I am today obliged to announce that since the Socialist Group we will not allow women in the queue to be placed in any future design for Galicia. And we're not going to tolerate it because we're not willing or willing for anyone to decide on the freedoms and rights that we have conquered women. [[Applause]] Women are not sons and daughters, our vital goal is not to reproduce workers and workers who pay pensions. If Mr. Casado is concerned about birth, he is working to design and propose from his true group policies of reconciliation, co-responsibility or improvement of the gender gap. I suppose all these drifts have to do with the custom of Mr. Married to give him things. But to women no one has given us anything; we ask no privileges, only equality and equity. We want the opportunities that have been denied to us centuries after century and that others have. [[Applause]] And from walking and advanced we're not going to allow a step back. In the past, Mr Rueda accused this honourable Member and, therefore, the Socialist Group to whom I represent, of using women to discredit a party. But if you discredit yourselves, you don't need help! We cannot pretend — and much less in this chamber — that we remain silent, silent and silent, when, in the current political context, from the People's Party itself, messages are being launched that threaten very seriously — very gravely! — the progress that has been made in the area of equality, and even if it is the decline in the policies of equality to which it has become the currency of change, of transaction to favour agreements and alliances between groups. In the face of these kinds of provocations against women's rights, can anyone really think that this group will remain silent? Do you really believe that from the point of view of responsibility we can avoid all these kinds of declarations of intent? From our clear group we're worried. But I ask them, what is the degree of concern of the German People's Party? Are you all right, then, with Mr. Married's statements? Do you think the women of Greece can be calm in the face of the continuing threat of cutting off their rights? I remind you that Mr. Casado invited everyone this weekend and all to travel to Madrid. Now we know that he also wants all women to travel with him to the last century, to the year 1985, with the law of supposed; that journey that he says is the ticket that women have to take to ensure the survival of pensions. What didn't happen to him for a moment in his head is that the price of that ticket is an insult to the dignity of women. Because what your leader forgets, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is that maternity needs to be desired, can't be forced, can't be imposed and, no doubt, can't be the excuse for justifying moral prejudices. To relate the demographic problem to the cuts in women's freedoms and rights is totally immoral and absolute irresponsibility. I invite you to focus, to focus on the policies and measures that need to be implemented in the field of equality, but to that end, make sure that these are not in danger. Let us resist and leave from there, because it is of no use to discuss the design and origin of policies if there is no intention to push them and there is no intention to continue them and potential ones. I tell you what the well-known neuroscientist David Well says, which investigates the relationship, precisely, between the brain, genetics and education: that learning and concepts acquired at the age will be very difficult to eliminate in later stages, especially between 0 and 3 years. They can work, but it takes a long-term effort and, in some cases, years. And it's more: it claims that on many occasions a false concept set up in the brain, even when working for rectification, always leaves a trail that makes it bloom again and reproduce over time. From these two questions I think two conclusions are drawn that are very close to today's debate: the first, that the most important commitment a government can show with equality is to work from prevention and education at the earliest ages, to dismantle the chain of Machism and gender stereotypes from the first link with the necessary involvement and formation of all, but also from the family sphere, and the second, that what Mr. Casado is showing us these days is precisely that weakness of the brain, which re-enters into the present concepts of the past that already seemed to be overcome. As much as you put on the layer of equality, if you don't feel comfortable with it, you'll soon be angry with the wind. And, therefore, for both things and from the German point of view, we call for work and commitment to prevention, against machismo and against those and those with political responsibilities that not only work to eliminate it, but rather by focus. From the Socialist Group we will always be with women's rights and we will not allow — I insist — a step back in the matter of equality. We will not tolerate that women suffer from laws of another century, because that is not a step back, it is to shift them — as I said before — directly to the tail wagon. We will not remain silent and silent with proposals that place women as second-born citizens, at the service of the other half of the population. So — of course, yes! — concern, deep concern; that is the feeling that continues today in this Socialist Group. A feeling that, by the way, we do not wake up, but those and those who have recently concentrated all their energies on remixing the sparks of inequality. Because the steps taken in our country's recent past may not have been sufficient, but they were at least a good example of the shared involvement and spirit of all to improve policies on equality and gender-based violence. Let us remember that on November 15, 2016, the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies unanimously adopted a non-law proposal calling on the Government to promote the signing of a State Covenant on Gender Violence, and also at its plenary session on September 28, 2017, without a vote against, the Sub-Commission's report on a State Covenant on Gender Violence. The Senate Equality Commission decided on 21 December 2016 to set up a report to study and evaluate aspects of the prevention, protection and repair of victims of gender violence. On 13 September 2017, the Senate Plenary unanimously approved the Report of the Study Report for the Development of Strategies against Gender Violence. And as far as the German Parliament is concerned, since the past legislation has been working, from the Equality Commission, on the development of a Greek pact against gender violence, which involves all parliamentary groups. And if one meets all these precedents, it seems that an initiative such as today should not be necessary, but it is the continuing threat statements in cuts of rights and freedoms that compel us to request the reaffirmation of all groups of this chamber in support and unconditional impulse to equality policies. Since prevention — I insist, since prevention — since prevention— we have been, since prevention — we call today all and everyone who heed our request for our request to reaffirm its commitment to equality and to violence against violence — I insist, since prevention — we call upon all of us today and everyone who have heeded our request to reaffirm its commitment to equality and against violence against the machiist violence and against violence; to reaffirm its commitment to equality and against violence against violence, as well as to the immediate achievement of an early violence, as well as to the immediate achievement of a peace pact against violence against violence against the machiist violence, as well as the immediate achievement of the previous violence, its commitment to the victims and their commitment to the victims and their commitment to the victims and their commitment to the victims, and their commitment to the victims, their commitment to the victims, their commitment to their commitment to the victims, their commitment to the victims, their commitment to the abuse of any kind of counter-tra explicitly or implicit or implicit tolerancefulfulful agreement with training; to express their violence against or violence against the suppression or reduction of women's measures of women's protection measures, including violence and their protection measures, all rights, all rights and violence, all, all, all, all rights, including all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all rights, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, all, to commit, to commit, to commit, to commit, to commit, to commit, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure the implementation, to be committed, to ensure the implementation, to ensure the implementation, the implementation, the implementation, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, and social, and social, the implementation of, and social, the political, the implementation of, the implementation of, the implementation of, the role, the implementation of, and social, the implementation of, and social, the implementation of, and social, the implementation of, and the I don't think, frankly, that there is a single point in this proposal that can be rejected in coherence with the walk so far. Please reaffirm your convictions. For my side, and for the moment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u218	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Well, I'm glad this voicer of the Socialist Party didn't compare being sovereign or independent to being neo-fascist like those of Vox, because it seems a bit unfortunate. [[Applause]] I, at least, think there's an important difference between the issues. On Mrs. Pierres' initiative, I wanted to make several considerations or reflections, a little context. The first, about the attempt, the offensive we're seeing on the patriarchate's part of promulgating setbacks on many rights that women have conquered or prevented, to cut into pieces the conquest of other new ones. I think it's something that's undeniable and that we're living, especially, in the sphere of sexual and reproductive rights, but not only -- an offensive, besides, that has not only a state context, but also an international context. We can't deny the progress of fascisms, we can't deny other waves. I, speaking the other day in a similar debate, set as an example what we had seen on Bolsonaro's thread, what we had seen on the thread of the Argentine comrades, who still today have not achieved a legitimateization worthy of their right to abortion, and so on. But the fact is that it also has a part in the state and a component that reaches Galicia that can affect us in a significant way the women of Greece; that is why we share the spirit of giving it a response and acting as a containment dam. Now, we also think, on the line of what my comrade Olalla Rodil said in the previous shift, that we have to put the questions in perspective and not apply what another person will come to do to you. So, it's a problem for us that there are political forces that are emerging in the state that question the existence of masculine violence, it's a problem that is put on the table something as serious as the derogation from a frame that has so hard to build, with force, too, of feminism and mobilization. But, look!, it's also a problem that the president of the People's Party, Mr. Married, speaks of domestic violence, a debate over decades ago; it's a problem that this gentleman talks about gender ideology; it's a problem that this gentleman again faces a threat about reproductive and sexual rights — the right to abortion — and we want to insist that not because a wolf teaches more teeth than another, this is more lamb than the first one, right? So it seems to us that this is something we must not lose sight of. Nor do we have the collective force that the feminists have, both in the institutions and outside them, because we have once stopped an attempt to reverse this specific issue of abortion, and I am convinced that we will return to any attempt — by Vox, by Citizens or by the People's Party itself — to any backwardness in this matter or to impose on us other issues such as rental barrels. It is clear that we are going to be dealing with important debates in the coming years and that everyone will have to be portrayed. That's why we understand that we must be demanding. I share some of the issues that Mr Pierres could say in this speech, but it is true that, seeing the initiative, there are some issues that seem somewhat ambiguous to us, and that is why we are presenting these amendments with a constructive will and to raise the level of need. And, of course, if the Galician People's Party wants to use this initiative to get away from Mr. Married, for it does not do so for free, it does so in exchange for a series of commitments, not with statements that can lead to the wind. We were asked by the spokesman for the Socialist Party to focus, and we shared it. I can't help but make, constructively, a reflection I've already done on other occasions, and it's just that with questions of violence masquerading we should stop looking a little for Madrid. And I'm not saying this because I'm a nationalist, still risking the shrapnels that can be done from this bench, I'm saying this because it's obvious that we have a law that's more than a decade old, and yet it's much more advanced than that state pact that we mention so much and repeat in this chamber. We saw him recently at the presence of Vice President Rueda, where there was a coincidence in more than ninety percent of the measures proposed by that pact, which could already be promoted with the Greek framework. So, without undermining the nearness that you can do — especially because of those issues that are state-wide — we also have to focus on what is being met and the law of Greece is being endorsed. That's why our amendments go that way: they're going to monitor from Galicia what affects us in the state pact, but also to go a little further. There is a question that cannot be taken out of this context for us: the general budgets of the State are being debated, and we ask that there also be a need to increase the divisions to the State Covenant. And there's a question we're concerned about and we're pointing out again, which is how it affects the marginalization that is applied to the Greek municipalities. To give an example: in 2018, of twenty million, Galicia received one million — a little more — that is, 5.5 percent of the funds, when we represent more than the population weight — even with the demographic fall sponsored by Mr Feijóo. We therefore believe that a great deal of attention is being paid to the State Covenant, but that we must make equal use of resources on other points of the State. We also introduced a point to evaluate the impact of the cuts driven by the Government of the People's Party since its arrival in government in 2009. By setting an example: the aid to victims of macho violence, which is a question on which they are correcting; the fact is that one of the first decisions the People's Party's Government made was to reduce the counties and the number of aid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u220	We also disagree — and I shall conclude with this, Mr President — on the question of a committee within the Greek Parliament to follow this pact. We understand that this agreement must be followed, so we make a number of concrete proposals in our amendments, but we understand that it must be linked to the motions for resolutions that can be debated in this parliament and to the follow-up we must make — and we are in it — of the very law of the city of Galicia, because there are many questions that, if there were political will to develop them, without leaving our own framework, we would have much to recriminate the People's Party, regardless of its pacts outside of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u221	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u222	Thank you, President. As a first reflection, we believe that we should not have to be demanding that many of the points proposed in our own motion have been met, and also some — in particular, point 8 — that we present in our amendment. Because at least, if there was a real commitment to the fight against male violence, it would be to comply with the agreement; the State Covenant was made for that to be fulfilled. In fact, when this State Pact was discussed, we have very much to do with our group in Congress, where specific deadlines and budgets exist because, if not, of course, this would be on a wet paper, and now we see how, in fact, we have to be discussing the specific implementation of the State Pact month after month. So, perhaps, that we are used as an evaluation of why at that time we insist so much on setting specific deadlines for this work of the Greek covenant; in fact, we have already stated on many occasions that it is essential that specific deadlines exist and also specific budget. But what's worse is we still have to be demanding that it be complied with by the vigouring legislation. Twelve years of the approval of the law of Galicia — twelve years! — and we see how many points of this law are undeveloped; twelve years, and we see how many points of this law are not met, and the worst of all is that there is no minimal self-critical assessment of this matter. The government is not wondering why the application of the legislation is failing. Twelve years we think it's more than enough to make an assessment; in fact, we often talk about the fact that the German law is very advanced compared to state law, but the problem is that this legislation is not met at most of these points. So we're no use having a much more advanced law if then, at the time of truth, it can't be fulfilled. Something like that, too, is what happens to the Istanbul Convention; it's very good, and we support it, of course, to support it. But the Istanbul Convention is ratified and it's been five years; for the Government is already working for this to be fulfilled. We think it's a little repeat and demand what we've already seen asking for and it's agreed unanimously. So, in view of these evidences, we actually ask a little bit of what it is for us to debate motions in this parliament, not because it is this in particular, but in general: we often debate motions that we see, when months or years go by, that are absolutely useless. And also, and very linked to the debate that we had before, we believe it's very difficult to understand what it is that we try to make an effort to reach consensus proposals on equality if then the right parties — including the People's Party, because of course the People's Party, are making declarations every week that they make us back or that they intend to make us back into our rights. Because the infamous statements — which are infamous — were many; it wasn't a spate, it wasn't just linking abortion with birth. If we look back two months ago -- I don't say years ago, that it was very good the speech of the spokesperson of the Nationalist Block of Wales, because there is also a need to remember perhaps more in the medium term -- about gender ideology, domestic violence, or even about the fact that there is a certain defence of men in the courts, or that there is a tiredness of exacerbated feminism, are statements that have been made these months; only if we look back two months. So when you're making all these statements by leaders of the People's Party, you'll understand the people of the People's Party who find it very difficult to try to reach a pact with you, because, if you don't go to deny these infamous statements, that we're going to talk about equality when you're sitting and making comments every week that they make us back and that are comments that deepen in inequalities. Nor do we understand that there is a possible debate with whom the pact and who it is going out to mobilize with whom it denies male violence. Because it's denying male violence, and in the course of the year more than ten women have died. So it's no use here that we're talking about what we have to fight and that we have to put on a very important commitment against masculine violence if they're then mobilising with forces that deny the structural inequality that women suffer and that they intend to break down the Law of Violence. We are no longer talking — obviously, I stand for equality — about sexual and reproductive rights; I know we have nothing to do with the People's Party. But, even with the Violence Act there, they're making use of all the most rantious and reactionary arguments that don't describe at all what happens to reality. So we think it's very difficult and very contradictory to have these debates, actually, at the moment. Still, we agree with this motion; specifically, point 6 seems interesting, because we think it's what incorporates a more novel point. In the rest — as I say — we agree, but we believe that it should already be done. And then we put two points further because we understand that... firstly, the topic of macro-inquisition, which was a bit linked to what it was saying: it is not acceptable for a macro-inquisition to be approved in April and September last year, and today we have no information on when this macro-inquisition is going to be going to be done, which is going to be the indicators, as if it's going to be collected... we believe that it's already been reasonable, and since it's not worth hearing that a macro-inquisition is going to be done I don't know how many times, we put a reasonable deadline for the first half of this year to be brought forward and told to Parliament for that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u223	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u224	And finally, the budgetary issue: we believe that without budgets — as we have been repeating all this time — there is no debate possible. We believe that we are asking for an absolutely reasonable proposal: one percent in the next budgets; it is something that is assumed if there is political will, because — we repeat again — there is no point in reaching agreement. For us, pacts must obviously come detailed with specific budget and with a temporal issue; otherwise, another twelve years will pass and legislation will continue to fail.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u225	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u226	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pierres, you chose today badly to talk about equal work and access to work; ask your Vigo colleagues how it is. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to belong to the People's Party, I am proud to belong to the People's Parliamentary Group and I am proud to belong to this House and, above all, to this legislation. Look: I joined as a Member in 2009, and both in the 2009 legislation and in the 2012 legislation, the opposition, all opposition groups, considered it appropriate not to compromise with the People's Party or a single initiative, motion, non-law proposition or issue relating neither to equality nor to gender violence. Since September 2016, when we started this legislation, I don't know if by the confluence of voices or people with more consensus in this chamber, we were able to reach agreements, very important agreements. And the first and most important thing we could do was reach a unanimous agreement to send Madrid a document in which we collected all Galician proposals for the State Covenant against Gender Violence. It was the only autonomous community in Spain that was able to send to Madrid a document, approved unanimously by all groups in this House on gender violence. It's neither a baladi nor a simple matter, gentlemen. In the political context of political confrontation that we are living in, this was not easy. It could be even easier in 2009 or 2012, but it was from 2016 onwards. [[Applause]] Well, from that consensus, there have been many more consensus and many more agreements that we have reached among all the groups of the House. Of course we have ideological differences, of course! But we were able to put the benefit that we were giving to the victims of gender-based violence above partisan interests. We all had generosity to give up what separated us and put together what united us. And what brought us together was the struggle against the social drama of gender-based violence, to put more resources on the table for the victims and to fight against that systemic abuse that many Greek women are victims of gender-based violence. That document was defended by the vice president of the Senate, and that document was incorporated in almost all its literality into the State Covenant against Gender Violence. Galicia is fulfilling that pact. Mrs. Quinteiro said she shouldn't just stay on the paper, that we have to do it. On 20 November, Mrs Quinteiro, the Vice-President of the Board came to this House to report on developments and how those measures were being implemented. He spoke of four priority measures, which were already being put in place, and fourteen more that were also being put in place. Remember, it was October, a month earlier, when the Government of the State authorized the departure to put these measures into effect; therefore, only one month and the vice president of the Board appeared in this House to be aware. Today, in February, not one single adviser from any other autonomous community in Spain came to parliament to account for the progress of the implementation of the state pact in its autonomous community, not even the so feminist Monica Oltra appeared in the Valencian community, gentlemen. Galicia continues to be a pioneer and advances in the implementation of measures against gender-based violence. Why do you want to shadow that job if you're the protagonist of this success? You're part of this success, we're all part of this success. Why do you want to get rid of this work that we're doing among you, gentlemen? Well, I think they hurt, they hurt. Because we can, for example, not support the state pact in the Congress of Deputies. If we were to follow Mrs Pierres' initiative — not to compromise with those who do not support gender-based violence — we would not have agreed with you, we would not have signed the document we sent to Madrid. No, ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to deal with us in this House, because we have put the victim's interest above the party interests, and we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to do so. We are not going to enter the partisan debate in the fight against gender-based violence. [[Applause]] We will support this motion at all its points, Mrs. Pierres, from the first to the last. And even if you accept the amendments from the other groups, we are willing to talk, because we are willing to accept also points from the amendments from the Nationalist Block of Galicia and En Marea. If you want to remain in the consensus, if you want to remain seated at the table by negotiating initiatives to advance the fight against gender-based violence, you can count on the People's Party. If they want partisan debates, they don't contain us, because we're not going to use the drama of gender-based violence for party debates or to throw our victims in the face just by the way. We are not going to play with the victims of gender-based violence, because we against the abusers, zero intolerance, Mrs. Pierres We are going to support all the victims, all those who suffer discrimination or violence, from the most media—the herds, Diana Quer, Laura Luelmo, through the compostelas Maruxa and Coralia—all the victims of gender-based violence who suffer in silence and who do not leave the media and who need all the resources of all the institutions in order to be able to get out of that circle. [[Applause]] We're always going to be next to the victims and never next to any acronyms. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado del Río. Mrs. Pierres López has the floor of the motion's own group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u228	Thank you, President. Let me thank, openly and sincerely, for the support of all the groups for this motion, because I think it is important that today this debate can be drawn from the clear and firm disposition of all the groups that we make up this Parliament to work from prevention and firm commitment to equality, and for this message to reach out to other groups and other people, such as Mr Casado, who intends to bomb the work on equality. [[Applause]] The Socialist Group believes that it is important, that it was important, to strengthen this consensus to continue to work effectively, within the Equality Commission, in the elaboration and achievement of the Greek Covenant against Gender Violence. All the voices and voices of the different groups that we participate in the Commission know that we have already spoken at our meetings of the important one, as Mrs Prado said, to find the points of meeting, to try to reach agreements, and to keep the meetings out of the discussions to try to reach consensus. But they will understand that there are issues that, as public debates on the part of some of the groups, contradicting the mere spirit of legislative changes that may arise, or limiting the scope of the measures and actions proposed from the rest of the groups, we find ourselves obliged to request explanations or corrections that we consider necessary. In any case, I reiterate my satisfaction with this agreement which today is being referred to. And as for the amendments tabled, I would like to say that we will accept in part the amendments tabled by both the En Marea group and the BNG. In the case of the BNG, we are going to accept the inclusion of points 1.1 and 1.2 within point 1 of our initiative, and with that the change of point 6 was also derived from the introduction of these points. Because we really believe that we can already work on the status pact within this Interdepartmental Equality Commission and then move the debate to Parliament, which is what seems to us to be the most appropriate in any case. In the case of the Marea Group, we also accept point 1 as a way to maintain that follow-up and commitment, a point that once again focuses on referenda the commitments that are acquired here. The rest of the points — still agreeing with some of them — we believe that they are not in the spirit that was sought on this initiative, which was basically to refer and reaffirm the commitment of all groups of this House to the laws and to work towards equality. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the compliance of the Law 4/2017 of 3 October, of the protection and welfare of pets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u230	This motion was tabled an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u231	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u232	Good afternoon again to all your lords. Thank you, President. Today we bring a motion that has to do with the regulations we have in Galicia regarding the welfare of pets. It has four points, and we believe that from the majority group that supports the Government should, or could, be accepted without any kind of problem the four points, because they are reasonable and go along with the very law of protection and welfare of pets of the year 2017 that was approved in this House. The first of these points refers to the need to comply with this law and the obligation of the Government, the responsibility of the Government, to control its compliance. The other day, we were talking — both the counsellor in the interrogation and myself from the Socialist Group — about what happened on the Road when a woman was attacked by several dogs from a neighbor. And it was in 2018, but the advisor stated here that it was true that in 2016 it had already circulated that these dogs existed and that the neighbors knew what was going on, Seprona knew what was going on, and the Council and Council knew what was going on because they had received reports from Seprona himself. The adviser said that those reports actually existed but that they were in a limbo, that there was a limbo — as if there was a legal limbo — and that the reports followed their course to the end. He didn't do it anymore. And the truth is that he lied because there was no limbo, there was a law, which was the law on the protection of domestic and wild animals in captivity, of the year 1993, which regulated the possibility of including certain activities in the offences and penalizing such offences. The fact of having dangerous animals was a serious breach of that law that is now being repealed. To have several animals, at least one, a dangerous, potentially dangerous dog, as this owner had on the Road, because it could already be considered a serious violation of the law of 1993, when those reports of Seprona were received. And he could be punished as such serious, or very serious offence, according to the law. It's not done, it's not done. "What was done," said the advisor literally, "was that those reports would follow their course to the end." Well, it's not true, they didn't follow their course to the end because there wasn't a grade of infringement or a penalty. We suppose those reports, as we said several times, ended up in a drawer, because there were no sanctions and therefore no such infringements. Moreover, those reports could be used to agree on preventive measures with the new law of 2018 on the Road, and it wasn't done either. I mean, it's not that the law is not being complied with, but that the government's compliance has not been controlled either. And that's exactly what we ask at this first point of our motion. We also call on the municipalities to defend themselves, mainly small municipalities that do not have enough funding to take charge of each one of them. And I have two reports here, of the Deputy of Pontevedra and of the Parliamentary of Ourense, which speak precisely of the careers. In particular, the Ourense Deputy speaks of reception centers in Carballino, Xinzo de Limia, the Lower Limia and Valdeorras; and the Deputy of Pontevedra, the center of reception and protection of animals of Armenteira. They're talking about the cost of having centres like these, the costs they charge, and the income they receive from the deputy to do this service. The costs are about EUR 700,000 per year. And the income that comes from the contributions of the municipalities themselves, the own funds of the MPs and the public prices of the citizens, because it's about EUR 500,000 or so. There is a deficit in that funding that the municipalities cannot assume, nor the deputies — and I chose one that is not governed by the People's Party and one that is governed by the People's Party —. And that funding isn't enough. That's why we ask them in this motion for the Government to open an agreement with Fegamp to fund the canisters from the Government, although management is well placed in the municipalities where they have it or either in their own deputies. Because it's the municipalities themselves and the Members themselves who are saying that they can't actually face them. Our third point also calls for compliance with the law. The law says it gave a maximum of 12 months to develop it through a regulation. It's not done. Twelve months have passed — 13 months have passed, because January 11th was the day on which those twelve months were accomplished — and you can't wait any longer, because this law of 2017 refers to that future regulation almost on thirty occasions. That means that what would have to be regulated by regulation is not regulated and is causing a lot of problems. The other day there were representatives of the veterinary collective in this Chamber, and they were actually saying so. The counsellor, in his intervention, undertook to do so within this year. 13 months have passed -- more than 13 months, 13 months and two days to be exact -- and we believe, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that we can't wait any longer, and so we ask you to stop this session period, open a participatory process for all those sectors that need to say something about the enforcement of the law and that they have complied with it since its entry into force, and remove that regulation from the Government before the end of the session period, because we've been 13 months behind. And finally, the last point, finally, asks the Government to work with the Office of Epizootics of the World Animal Health Organization. Annoyance may sound a little strange or even medieval, but anger exists, not only in bats, but in dogs and cats. Since the World Health Organization in 1996, Spain had been said to continue to vaccinate cats and dogs and to recommend annual vaccination. Why? As a preventive programme against anger, for two fundamental reasons: first, because there are endemic countries where anger exists as a pandemic in cats and dogs and there are animals that sometimes come imported from these countries without any kind of health control in their countries of origin and sometimes border inspection posts because they don't work as they should. And then because, as Spain is near Morocco -- we are not caught there but Morocco exists -- there are animals, there is anger as a pandemic, and there has sporadically been cases of rabies transmitted to other animals, dogs and cats -- basically dogs -- that have sometimes worked people. For we believe that one cannot look to the other side and that the veterinarians themselves — so they say it — believe that it is necessary to open a preventive programme against anger that includes the revacification of domestic animals year by year. As I told you at first, we think it's easy for you to assume these four points. We believe that we would do you a favor to the law of 2017 if we all voted in favour of this motion and by the Government if they took the commitments they made on the day of their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u233	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. On the part of the parliamentary groups, you have the floor, first of all, the representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u234	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Our intervention is, logically, to announce support for the Socialist Group's proposal because it seems obvious to us that the law should be complied with, that the law should be developed according to what is envisaged. Let's make a regulation, let's cover the gaps that have the law, because it's something elementary, nobody should oppose this, even if we don't expect much from the Government, given the regulatory paralysis, and let's say no more about the law, but rather about the regulatory development of the laws itself. We also find it logical — because we have already made this criticism when the law was debated — that competences would be transferred to the municipalities, but the means and resources would not be transferred to meet those competences. And now we see how the municipalities are overwhelmed, overcome, by the situation, in addition to the fact that the law caused an effect that was the greatest abandonment of animals, by the very demands of the law. And all this is going on in the municipalities, often small councils that have no ability to handle these new responsibilities — I mean — because they haven't been transferred to them. And logically we also share the concern about diseases transmitted to humans by animals. So, logically, this is supposed to have the support of all groups. And we, through the amendments, want to claim more because we think that animal welfare can be measured as a kind of thermometer because of the sensitivity that governments and societies have around the good treatment or abuse of animals. And in this sense we already reported that the law excluded situations that seemed aberrant to us, which seemed denouncing to us, that we understood that they should be collected in the law, for example the situation of horses and wild water, of horses. Because, in addition to the issues that have to do with the ecological and social aspects, there are also aspects of heritage that need to be taken into account. There are also — they are constantly being denounced — attacks and ill-treatment of these horses and horses, and we think that there must be a specific regulation protecting them. Just as we understand that it makes no sense that the law excludes the situation of abuse of animals, such as bullies. We already know that there is a state-wide legislation, but the law speaks of generic prohibitions and specifically says, "the use of animals in fighting, parties, shows or any other activity that leads to suffering, mistreatment and cruelty against animals." And that's why, and considering also the definition that UNESCO makes of Tauromachy, we propose by means of an amendment to address the Government of the State to promote the legal changes of legislation. Because we understand, in addition, that there is a majority at this time of parliamentary approval to do so, and it should be prohibited — as the People's Party now calls it, and but its allies of Vox — the Tauromachy — are now changing it like this..., it seems to be a sweeter, softer word than the slaughter of bulls in bullfights, in bullfightings. And also a society that fights abuse and cruelty shouldn't allow, in our understanding, these things, these massacres of foxes disguised as sports competitions that are turning Galicia into a real sanctuary in the Spanish state and in Europe of the fox's massacre. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] And this is when these sporting competitions, which are anachronistic, which are medium-sized, have been expressly banned in other European countries. And from the BNG, of course, we feel ashamed of a government that allows these massacres, these massacres of foxes. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the photograph again.]] And that's why we demand in our amendment that the board not promote, not sponsor, not collaborate, not finance these killings. You also supported a BNG proposal on your day, which was unanimously approved, so that these support could not be made, and now we see how in the ravine killing competitions that are organised appear the logos of the Galician Council and Sport Galego, which funds, which supports, which collaborates in the organization of these practices. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] So you now have an opportunity to prove whether you're in favour of animal welfare or if you support these cruel practices of suffering and ill-treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u235	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u236	Thank you. Good afternoon. Well, after more than a year, we're here again talking about the animal welfare law. As we have shown in the processing of the law, our intention was to achieve the best possible law and not to make it a political struggle in a matter — the rights of animals — recognised from the United Nations to most of its citizenship. In this sense, the approval at the Congress of Members to consider animals with sensitivity was another step forward. That's why we didn't present at that time an amendment to the whole, to give space to the sincere and generous dialogue. Unfortunately, our main amendments, after giving up the majority in order to reach an agreement, have not been collected, and the time — as I shall explain — is giving us reason that they were absolutely essential. We considered that the law was a step forward, but, as we said before, it was wet paper, with truly dramatic consequences. And what did they say about our amendments that we had already proposed unnecessarily, because we presented eighty, we went down to thirty, and finally we got six, to be able to support this law? Fundamentally, a very important point: not to exclude the equidae — it has been mentioned — from the protection of this law. The People's Group argued that they already have their own rules, but in that regulation, animal protection shines by their absence and leaves them totally destitute. The situation is really dantesque: horses starved for lack of attention by their owners — as it happened in hundreds of cases in the past summer —, horses killed savagely at blows in Oia, without it being seen that there will be sanctions for this reason. Then — we have often spoken about — do not exclude bulls from the protection of this law. To continue to promote bullfighting in a country like Galicia seems to us totally ridiculous and without any kind of justification, for having no social support and an absolutely massive rejection. Then we also proposed amendments to actually get the zero sacrifice and clearly differentiate the sacrifice of euthanasia. Well, you put a point where you put a lot of exceptions. What's going on? In the canteens it continues to sacrifice for theoretically animal welfare issues but which is really only a problem of overpopulation, that is, an economic problem. Then it follows the overexploitation of the breeding females and there is no comprehensive control of illegal sale, especially in the case of hunters, and they continue to camp in the territory in a totally scandalous way. And the same situation is happening in many places with illegal residences that have no administrative control. And now we've reached the fundamental point, what we were thinking: that the Galician Union was obliged to develop calls both to provide economic aid to animal protection and defence associations as well as to the municipalities, which had to apply this law. Well, what was it? During the legal debates we calculated that, given that in Galicia there are around fifteen and twenty thousand abandonments of animals, the cost to be able to enforce the law would be around 3 million euros. Well, what did he do? In fact, in the debate on the motion it was ensured that the budgets would increase. For in 2017 — before the law — programme 541B was provided with EUR 300,000. The law came, and we had to do that, okay, maybe we didn't get to the 3 million in the first year, but at least 1 million. What was the reality? Budgets 2018, EUR 100,000. I don't know why, perhaps to give points to the former Environmental Adviser, to see if that would help her to get to the Mayor of the Coruña. Perhaps now, as it turns out you have nothing to do, which is probably going to have the worst result of the People's Party's history in the Crown, because now the law is already hidden. Why is she hiding? Do you know the budgets in 2018? 100,000 euros, the third part than when there was no law. And not 2019? 125,000 euros, a little more. But do you know that in 2018 they were abandoned in Galicia twenty-two thousand dogs, three thousand more than in 2017? Do you know how long she's out for a dog? At 5 euros. Do you know how much I spend on a county capture, sterilization, chipping and then the adoption process of a dog? A minimum of 200 euros, i.e., 40 times more than you plan. This way it's impossible to put in place and enforce a law. How can you demand it from municipalities that have no budgets for this if you don't budget it? Just one example: the Town Hall of Coruña. Only the caterpillar of the Town Hall is budgeted with 160,000 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u238	...more chip campaigns, sterilization campaigns and the campaign to manage feline colonies. In other words, only the Town Hall of Coruña spends more than twice as much as the Galician Union a year. So it doesn't make sense that we were here more than three or four months debating a law that looked like it was going to be a law with a lot of future and a lot of expectations, or at least we put them in. You, with budgets, demonstrate what they care about animal rights. Maybe it's also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u239	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u240	...contagion of their new partners, which, as it is obvious, defend animal abuse. I hope you don't get contaminated too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u241	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u242	Yes, good afternoon. I, Mr. Casal, and even if it's just like a joke, I'm glad you're talking about the future mayor of the Crown. The survey you're referring to is that you lower your support for citizenship by 20% and lose three concellers, and the People's Party is the first force, it's going to be the first force in the Coruña. You'll understand that we're quite happy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u243	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u244	You'll see, you'll see. Don't get nervous. You'll see how we rule. Even you'll be happy that we rule. [[Applause]] Look, the Greek Government, as it couldn't be otherwise, is strictly applying the law since its entry into force and fulfilling all the provisions in the text; a law that, as you well know, updated a regulation that was more than twenty years old and was born due to the need to provide Galicia with a more demanding law from the health, environmental and welfare point of view with respect to animals. It also responds to this law to a growing awareness of the majority of Greek society, and seeks to respond to the demands of citizenship in the face of the problem of abandonment and animal abuse. It also equips our legislation with other European communities and states and has a triple objective: zero sacrifice, the fight against animal abuse and non-abandonment. In short, a law that fosters the adoption and awareness of citizenship, which also, of course, hardens the penalties envisaged and bets on the tendency responsible for pet animals, which is undoubtedly the main instrument for preventing abandonment and animal abuse. What balance can we take after twelve months? The registration of pets has been significantly increased, since identification is mandatory without exception with the new law; in fact, in just one year, 84,851 new seniors have been registered in the register. The number of sanctioning cases for infringements covered by the new law has also been increased. And, of course, it must be made clear that — although this is not the objective of the law — it is well demonstrated that the deterrent of fines for infringements must be taken into account as a further tool in achieving the objective of combating animal abuse in all its aspects. And they continued to put in place aid to the municipalities and protective associations. In particular, a total of EUR 550,000 has been allocated since the law. Three new abandoned animal collection centres have also been authorised, and I would also like to remind you that, thanks to this law proposed by the Government and approved in this House with the support of the People's Party, in Galicia there are no more animal mutilations on aesthetic issues, no more shooting at the dove and no circuses with wild animals. All this was, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this law that supported my party. In relation, group lords, with the points of the motion, the German Government is developing the measures and actions necessary to ensure compliance with the law since its entry into force. As for the powers collected and laid down in the law regarding the collection and care of abandoned domestic animals and the possibilities for the management of this competition, they did not vary with regard to the 1993 law. The new law accords the same powers to the councils; and it is also logical, because these powers come marked by the Law of Local Regime bases. We've already talked about this when the law was discussed, but you give them absolutely no matter what the legal framework with which this law is drafted; you score a speed, you put a pinion and there go the pinion done, but I mean also how this reflects the way you are and how you defend the proposals. When this law was discussed, here we are talking about the difficulties of some of the proposals, of the problems that would be of a budgetary nature, of the issue of abandonment. Mr. Bará says that the law led to more abandonment. That was what we knew and talked about in the law, and you, however, wanted, for example, to have the obligation to suck all the feline; that was your proposal, and even knowing that there would be more abandonments... no, you said no, you wouldn't; now you recognized it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as far as the regulation is concerned, you're working on it from the very beginning, you're looking for and favoring the participation of all those involved, seeking the highest consensus. And we're gonna keep doing this. We can do as you do: run around, not listen and throw forward through decree, but no, we prefer to listen. On the amendment, Mr. Lois Bará, of any other Member you can understand, you can understand, but you have been rapporteur of this law, you have made some approach to this law and you are fully aware of the scope of this law. And look, the fox, as much as you want, is not a pet; it's more, if you know of someone who has a fox as a pet, tell us, because we call Seprona. You know... this was a good law... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u245	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u246	...maybe as much as possible laws as possible, but you're not able to admit it, but don't make him unaware of his scope.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u248	At least, if you want to keep making it unknown, very well, but be you at least consistent and do the same thing as you ask here where you rule. Look, in the Bipartite there were more championships than there is now, there were more championships when you ruled that in any of the years the People's Party governs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u250	But their sensitivity goes and comes according to their government. And look, here I take a picture of him, for example, of his mayor of Ponte Caldelas, Andrés Díaz, of the Socialist Party, but I think he rules with support... [[Mr. Trenor López shows a photograph.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u251	Finish, please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u252	...of the Galego Nationalist Block, in a closure and a prize delivery of a fox hunting championship. With which, Your Honor, first go to your mayors, first convince...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u253	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u254	...your mayors and then come here. And to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u255	Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Your time is up. The author group of the motion on the amendment is already pronounced. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. That's it, you know her, perfect. Time's up. Thank you, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u256	Thank you, President. It is always a pleasure to hear Mr Trenor, but to speak of amendments from the other groups, we must bring the question and the motion here, and we are supposed to be positioned on the amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and not from the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is that you shouldn't have liked Mrs. Beatriz Mato too much for her intervention, because she ran away after you started, we don't know if... to buy a flag for when... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u257	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u258	...is the next manifestation in the square of Maria Pita and take place in the front row, a flag of Spain; maybe it's for that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u259	Quiet. Silence, silence, silence, please. We're done now, quiet, don't interrupt. Please be quiet. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Tellado, please be quiet. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u260	Mr. Tellado the other day had no voice and I think that in this plenary there will be something similar to it, though the other day he could scream perfectly, that we all hear him, even to send silence to those who are on that bench there; today perhaps he will pass the same, Mr. Tellado. It's a pity you don't vote in favour, Mr. Trenor and your group, because the only thing you're asked for... You didn't say what you were going to vote on, the only thing you said was, the only thing you said was that the law is being fulfilled, that I wanted to leave the legal framework and tell my colleague Abel Losada that I'm doing an anarchist, because I'm obviously asking for things out of the legal framework, which is what you're telling me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Those 550,000 euros of what you're talking about, I'd like you to bring me into what budget split they are, because we don't even find them. Maybe they're in envelopes, maybe they're in envelopes, but in budgets they're not, sure, sure they're not. [[Applause]] And it's less bad that the regulation takes you more than 13 months to do it, because -- I don't know -- it's going to end the legislation and they won't have time for the regulation yet. The other day, the councillor committed himself to having the regulation this year. So we asked him, because you didn't talk to anyone about the regulation and there were the business representatives. Mr. Trenor, you came here, you spoke what you wanted, you spoke more time than you meant... let me finish and so we can go, vote and go home. [[Murmurs.]] If they haven't arrived in 13 months, maybe they won't be here this year. And that means the advisor won't fulfill what he promised the other day, which was that this year's regulation is, and we ask him to be here before this session is over. We appreciate the position of the En Marea Group, although it didn't specifically say that it was going to vote in favour, but we understand that it is so, and we also thank the BNG for its position. We cannot accept the amendment because, in fact, so that the fox is no longer a sort of hunter, what needs to be amended is the Hunting Law, and in fact the other day in Commission 2 we are talking about it and perhaps the next one we have to bring to this Parliament. And the same is true of the touradas. We talked about circuses with animals and horses on their day, and we didn't have too much luck with the equidae, but the circuses with animals did...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u261	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u262	...get them out of this law. The fact is, when this law was discussed here, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we made an amendment to the whole to change its name and to include also the prohibition of the equidae, from shooting at the Pombino and also at the tournaments, and the People's Parliamentary Group did not want to. We were the only group that presented...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u263	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u264	...—Fixed—amended to all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u265	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u266	I said we can't accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u267	You don't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u268	...the amendment of the BNG, and it's a pity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u270	We'll see what the People's Party votes for. Thank you. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u271	Thank you very much. At the end of the debate on motions, we moved on to the vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece to avoid saturation situations in the emergency services of Sergas hospitals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u272	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Villares. There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, or PSOE, I don't know. Yeah, tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u273	Yes, with regard to that amendment, we incorporate the first and second point of the proposed amendment of the BNG and leave the third in the original version. And if the People's Party wants to vote first, we accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u274	We voted as Mr Villares explained. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. by Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on behalf of the Council of Galicia, in the political and institutional spaces and in the agreements it carries out, of human rights, of equality of women and men and of self-government. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u275	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Pierres. Is point 1 and point 2 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales accepted, as well as the change of point 6? How's it going? I wasn't in the debate. Oh, there's a deal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a little long. Do you want to read it, Mrs. Pierres?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u276	You already know the groups, but you enter a point 2 of the BNG and also the change of point 6 that proposes the BNG in relation to that point 1 that is introduced, and you accept point 8 that you propose In Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u277	Is that what we said or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u278	It is, but I ratify it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u279	We don't understand anything, but it's the same. The transaction is, isn't it? Well, we vote on the transaction, we're done first. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the position of the Parliament of Galicia and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted by 71 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u280	And we finally voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Patricia Vilán. The amendment of the Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the compliance of Law 4/2017, of 3 October, of protection and welfare of pets. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-12-DSPG101.u281	We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
