ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u1	We started full with the first point, of legislating texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u2	The amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, from 1 to 78; the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, from 1 to 19; the Parliamentary Group of the Joint Left Group, 1, 2, 4, 41 and 43 to 46; and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, from 1 to 33, from 35 to 80, from 84 to 91 and from 93 to 118. Mrs Porritt Lueiro has the floor for the presentation of the dictation, the President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u3	Thank you, President. Presentation of the Opinion on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The bill was entered into Parliament's register on 19 October 2019. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 19 October 2019, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission, Economics, Farms and Budgets. Parliamentary groups of the Galician Socialists, the Left Joint Group, the Galician and Mixed Nationalist Block presented amendments to the whole, which were qualified on November 11, 2019 and rejected at the plenary session on November 18, 2019. The People's Parliamentary Group made 38 amendments; the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 119 amendments; the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, 46 amendments; the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 19 amendments; and the Joint Parliamentary Group, 78 amendments. These amendments were qualified on 22 November 2019. The Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 25 November 2019, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the Popular Parliamentary Group, Ms Paula Prado del Río as the holder and Fr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Ms. Maria Teresa Porritt Lueiro as the owner and Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as alternate; by the Group of the Joint Parliamentary Group of the Left, Ms. José Manuel Lago Peñas as the holder and Ms. Julia Torregrosa Sañodo as alternate — replaced by Mr. Antón Sánchez García — by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. Olalla Rodil Fernández as the holder and Mrs. No. At the meetings of 28 and 29 November 2019, the Ponencia studied the articulated text of the project together with the amendments submitted and completed the report containing the recommendations made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the Popular Parliamentary Group. The Presidency also suggested accepting Amendment No 119 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 6 of the People's Parliamentary Group, tabled in Article 7, dealt with Amendment No 34 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Amendment No 3 of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. And in Amendment No 9 of the People's Parliamentary Group, tabled in Article 15, 92 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group was subsumed. The acceptance of a compromise amendment was recommended with Amendments Nos 81, 82 and 83 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Amendment 42 to the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group has been removed. The Commission, meeting on 10 December 2019, adopted by most of the rapporteur's report. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote at this plenary meeting consists of a explanatory statement followed by 42 articles, 1 additional provision, 3 transitional provisions, 1 derogation provision and 3 final provisions. The articulation shall be divided into two titles: Title I, relating to tax measures, and Title II, relating to administrative measures. Title I is divided, in turn, into several chapters, and sets out amendments to the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects of matters such as public employment, budgetary regime, environment, territory, infrastructure, sea, health, rural environment, social policy, economics, employment, industry, education, culture, tourism, sport and administration. The regulatory text shall be closed with various provisions contained in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Porritt. In the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments tabled and maintained, you have the floor, first of all, and by the Joint Group, Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u5	Good afternoon — even though a few of us haven't eaten yet — I will not extend — given the time we have spent — to criticize this practice of abusing changes in the legal system that have nothing to do with budgets. It's a common practice and it's really entrepreneurial. But, well, it has already been said repeatedly in this plenary session, in this Parliament, and we are not going to repeat what many spokesmen have already said. That, however, is lacking a very necessary change, a change to the Galician Health Act on the territorial management of the public health system and the health services and health programmes to be developed throughout the territory. This would be a reasonable legal change — which affects the budget, of course — to ensure that matters such as the closure of the Parish and the absence of emergency pediatricians were illegal. This would leave the entire citizenship of Verín very quiet and the entire citizenship that depends on the other comarcas hospitals. You know what I'm saying, I'm not going to repeat it. On the other hand, if they change the Health Act in this accompanying law, focusing on the lack of dialogue, once again, of the Unity of Galicia to address open debates and conflicts in health care. The Board has just presented a document on primary care before the work of the fifteen committees of the Technical Committee for Primary Care is completed. This is the problem of this law, which does not allow the specific parliamentary debate on matters as important as this one. This year we propose the amendment of 27 laws — three of them adopted in the same year — in addition to decrees and other regulations. Most have nothing to do with the budgetary rule. It contrasts with the lack of normative advances in other laws that the Galician Union itself committed to moving forward this year. Besides, they didn't get this. You later put in 33 other amendments, which, of course, will be approved. It's the culmination of legislative improvisation. You have already put, take advantage, within this improvisation, of an amendment 34 in terms of precisely what I mentioned earlier, of the territorial management of the public health system in Galicia and of the health services and health programmes to be carried out throughout the territory. I am sure that the whole House would approve it, that it could be approved unanimously. I believe that under these conditions the regulation could accept it to be incorporated. Think of it, they have time, they have time in an hour to incorporate that amendment into you. I'll be able to talk about just a few, because obviously there's no time to talk about the 27 laws in fifteen minutes. I'm going with the tax changes and the laws that make tax changes by 2020. Again the Union consolidates its commitment to fiscal inequality. It's just that there's really no one to understand it. There are cuts down and benefits up, and besides in a truly explicit way. There's no recovery. No, no, clearly if the taxes are dropped explicitly to the rich. Unless you also think, as the Citizens' Lords thought, that who inherits a million euros per person, by son or daughter, is middle class. Maybe they see it that way, and those who have assets to have to make the heritage statement are also middle class. It's really totally unacceptable for these gifts to be given to someone else. Since 2014 the tax benefits to those who have most of them have led to a decline in accumulated income that reaches EUR 2,827 million, more than the budget of the Education Council. It's true that many of these tax benefits are justified, but many others are not so much. It highlights the tax on successions and donations, which accumulates tax benefits of 717 million euros, which is almost the budget of the Social Policy Council. So, with these tax benefits you could pay the residences for older people, the family care system, the children's schools, a much more developed risk. You could activate a public network of free childhood schools from 0 to 3 years old, boost a social income supplement for those who have less income, and dynamize the care economy. Knowing what you can no longer spend was how you would have to look at these tax benefits. And I'm sure many would still be justified, because they benefit, precisely, the less favoured people. But there are others who are sure they wouldn't be justified. In short, there's money, but it's left in the pockets of a few, precisely those who need it the least. In our amendments, we are committed to reviewing the increase in the amount of tax revenue from the Union's own taxes on the basis of the principle of fiscal justice, beginning with the recovery of tax rates from the property tax and the reversal of all changes made to the inheritance tax as well — which is also reflected in this 2020 —. Because, if it hadn't arrived with the previous gifts, Junta is pushing, as I said, a new fiscal gift — this time in succession tax — for those who inherit up to one million euros per person. This means that, in a family, for example, with three children, it would be a three million-dollar estate that would not tax. That doesn't seem fair to us and it doesn't seem reasonable to us. It also includes — as has already been noted — a discount for the acquisition of habitual dwellings or second residences in parishes considered rural and sparsely populated, which includes areas that are obviously touristic, as our vocier has already indicated before. Law 6/2003 amends autonomous Community regulatory rates, prices and levies. We believe that some of these rates, in some cases, will affect the majority of society, which contrasts precisely with the tax discount on those who have the most. With regard to administrative measures, in Law 2/2015 of 29 April 2015, on public employment in Galicia, there are 18 amendments with the creation of new professional scales. We believe that some of these changes are unreasonable; for example, the creation of hydraulic inspection agents, for which no specific titration is required in an environmental branch, for example, or related to the use and protection of water. The same happens on the technical scale in fire prevention and defence, on the operational technical scale of the fire prevention system. It seems that these rules reiterate in non-specialization for the prevention and care of our natural resources and fight against fires. It seems clear that training for this type of vocational development would be essential. It also persists repeatedly in not recognizing the speciality of social education, which has been shown in the call for public employment offers that the educational squares may present different profiles that may have another type of professional qualification but not the specific of social education, the most suitable for many of the professional profiles that are specified in this regulation. The quality of services is thus understood, because it's not the same as being a teacher as being a social educator. Like a sure social educator who couldn't best develop work in a school, a teacher doesn't seem to be able to develop jobs with the same quality as a social worker in everything that is the activities that are developed in that area of social services. That lowers the professionalism of the public social services system and we consider it to be clearly negative. The modification of the Galician Landscape Protection Act reduces the Union's obligations to establish landscape action plans in protected areas and leaves as a power the development of these plans in other areas, another cut in the protection of the landscape. In Galician soil law allows promoters to deliver money instead of soil as concession to be able to build, as established by law. We believe that this is a policy that only benefits big builders and goes against the most reasonable measures of sustainable urban development. In Galicia's Rehabilitation and Urban Regeneration Act a law is amended which provides that it may be challenged by the Constitutional Court — it is one of the problems of this law, these amendments by this law — because the reports of the advisory councils have not been made. In this case, the report of the Galician Culture Council was not requested, which, at the request of the Spanish Committee of Icomos, was drafted by itself and warned that this rule calls into question the protection of heritage. It's just one of the most harmful aspects of this law that protects the historical helmets of the cities of Greece. There are also changes in Galicia's natural heritage and biodiversity, and the law passed this same year is amended so that the obligation to repair environmental damage prescribes for fifteen years to produce these. With this approach, for example, the problems we now have with the Touro mine would already be prescribed. Several years ago, many years ago, they would be prescribed and no restoration performance could be prevented. This is a way to allow the broad sleeve. It would allow, after resort, repairs to be prescribed at the end and the cause of environmental damage to be able to emerge from rosettes, as is commonly said. Then there are also changes in the prevention and defense of Galician forest fires. It is really incredible that we have to go to this law so that, after two years of the serious wave of fires, we still have to be regulatory in this improvised way, when — I say — we have been able to develop in another way and through the normative parliamentary debate. The model villages are then regulated for the recovery and value of the lands surrounding population nuclei, including all or part of their secondary biomass protection fringes, but without specifically meeting the environmental sustainability criteria. Galician Social Services Act is also amended with changes in the sanctioning regime, which do not really guarantee that sanctions taxes can be handled correctly because of insufficient inspection resources. And we consider that, through the Accompanying Law, it is not the way to propose a change to this silence. This law is also used to add the change that allows freeness in children's schools for second and subsequent children, a birth control measure that is socially unfair. This is like in the social bond for numerous families, who don't care about income. And it's clearly unequal that families with a child and with low or very low incomes do not enjoy freeness and families with high or very high incomes if they can enjoy this freeness from the second daughter. I mentioned earlier that two days ago there was an inquiry which made it clear that only 25% of the Greek women who had a son or daughter could consider themselves, socially or economically — not even propose — to have a second son or daughter. I know you'll have other surveys that will say otherwise, but this is an official survey. The change in the procedure for the recognition of the dependency and right of the benefit is the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u6	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u7	Access to dependency services is neither guaranteed by far within three months of the resolution of the individualized care plan, which is especially the case for waiting for accommodation. There are many other changes in this law that will also create problems because of the lack of specific care resources and the differentiation, for example, of young people over 21 years of age, who will be incorporated into the homes of older people by not creating other specific residences. There are also changes in the authorization to inspect Galician social services, changes which exempt the Union from the obligation to extend the number of public squares in higher residences until the rate recommended by the World Health Organization is reached. In Law 6/2013, of June 13, of the Galician University System, with this amendment it appears that the Union renounces to agree on a new plan for financing the Greek university system, since the current 2015-2020, ends next year, with which a new one must be negotiated in 2020. It would be logical to bring this process to a new law, to a new development which could be debated in this Parliament. I really don't know if they want to make it obvious and leave it to the next government that reaches the Galician Union next year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u8	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u9	Faced with all this normative confusion that makes it impossible to debate in depth all these legal changes, In Marea has developed a whole series of amendments that are coming to solve all these problems and the other fifteen or twenty more that are in laws and that have not given me time to develop. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casal. On behalf of the Galgo Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u11	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We, since the BNG, have continued to hold in this last debate on the Tax and Administrative Measures Act the same political position that we have expressed during the process of processing this year, but which we have also expressed in this House in previous years. We don't support the bill or dictate it either in the background or in the form. We do not support it in the form because — we have already pointed out on previous occasions — this accompanying bill, as it refers to this year 2020, amends more than thirty laws of a pen, laws that have nothing to do with the budgets of the Galician Union. The Government, and now also the People's Parliamentary Group, use this mechanism to reform in an absolutely accelerated way, expressed, a good set of rules and decrees; precisely, to know what we are talking about, the Galician Council of Auditors Act, the Galician Cooperatives Act, the Financial and Budget Scheme Act, the Law on Rates, Prices and Regulatory Exams, the Law on Prevention and Defence against Forest Fires, Emergency Law, the Protection of Landscape, the Health Act, the Law on Social Services, the Law on the Law on Environmental Damage caused by certain uses and uses of embalmed water, the Law on Water, the Law on Trade, Land Mobility, the Law on Tourism, the Law on Consumer Protection, the Law on Sport, the Law on Public Transport, the Law on Research, the Law on the University of Galicia, the Law on Roads, the Law on Trade, the Law on Natural Inclusion, the Law on Property, the Law on the Use of Public Use, the Administration and the Law on Global Use, the Law on Reclamation, the Protection, the Law on Access, the Law on the Law on the Use of the Use of the Use of the Use of the Use of Public. To this they added, during the amendment process, a reform of the Environmental Protection Act and the Agrarian Territorial Structure Improvement Act, all processed as if it were a single law when we're actually talking about thirty laws reforming the back door through this budget accompanying law. In addition, they abuse it year after year of this procedure, which has an exceptional character, which is of an urgent nature, and which prevents extensive debate, in a timely manner, in a dialogue and consensus and, above all, in contrast to the sectors concerned, the changes and changes that are intended to be introduced into legislation. It is true that there may be timely changes that involve an update of the regulations, but the bulk of the reforms that are incorporated year after year in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act — in this case in the 2020 Budget Accompanying Act — do not have that point but have a greater silence. Then we will speak more slowly about some specific examples of some of the changes that are introduced in this accompanying law. And this sovereignty, which we have been talking about since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group throughout this whole, this lack of dialogue, which is the very essence of any democratic process and system — combined in addition to this case with the purest legislative improvisation — results in the fact that the same laws will be amended year after year after the changes made generally a year ago have proved unsuccessful. So let's go to impulses, because I think we've on one occasion expressed that we're in the law of accompaniment and we see how the Government of the People's Party legitimately works, which look like the Pávlov dogs, to those who played the bell and showed up to draw their food. For here it legislates like this, like the Pávlov dogs, to impulses and absolutely without any kind of strategic planning. And then we'll see, with specific cases, like that occurrence, that lack of defined strategy and the constant and abusive use of this back door which is the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures leads us to have situations like the Law of the Land, which is the fifth time it is reformed with an Accompanying Law — it was approved in 2016, or the Land Mobility Act, which has been reformed four times this way. And the whole — we also mentioned in the previous plenary session, when this question was debated — is that the Law on Prevention and Defence against Forest Fires — which the original version has only the title — already goes for the fourth reform of Article 21, only four draftings for Article 21! It's the example of that legislate to impulse, of that legislative improvisation and of not going, of walking like a hair without its head. And then, every time certain debates or situations are taking place, as we could see in 2017, for example, when it was that wave of fires, because they're trying to patch up the laws that exist, they're trying to patch up to respond in a completely conjunctural way to that reality. There is improvisation, a lack of transparency and also legal insecurity, because, as we don't know how long each of the reforms that are going to take place now will take place — unless there is an unexpected turn of events, that everything is possible to see the vote of a moment ago — and that creates a legal insecurity for the whole of society in this country, especially for those sectors most affected by some of the changes that are proposed. We do not share — I insist — from the BNG the form and not the background of this bill, the content of the changes, which, except an unexpected turn of events, seems to be approved today. We'll synthesize some of them that seem to us to be more injured or more quiet. One is the reform of the Natural Heritage Act, which referred to it. Two months after the entry into force of this Law of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of Galicia, two months after its approval, they introduce a reform to fix the prescription, in order to repair the damage caused, in fifteen years. They had not previously prescribed, as it is, by the way, maintained in the Cultural Heritage Act — Article 135 —. The immeasurable character of this obligation to repair damage, for example, for a good of cultural interest, as it may be a palace, as it may be a monastery, but it does not seem to them that it is or that it should continue to be unpredictable, for example, if we talk about the natural heritage. In addition, that expiry, that prescription of repair obligations, to those which are pending execution until now — i.e. retroactively — is extended. In this same line, and through an amendment tabled during the processing process by the People's Parliamentary Group, a new reform of a law — which, by the way, was not originally planned or included in the project — is introduced which amends Galicia's Environmental Protection Act. The law had so far established that the environmental impact statements adopted by the Galician Board to allow large business projects in the territory would expire four years before the works began. And now you give them a grace period of two more years. That vigil will not last for four years, but for six years, which, from any given point of view, reduces environmental control over possible new impacts of those projects that can survive in time. And we also have concrete examples on the table today. And by saving the distances, we also have legalized examples, as is the case with the Oribio saw, where it is intended to give validity to an environmental impact statement of fourteen years ago that has not at all taken into account nor the regulatory changes that have occurred in this House over the past ten years or the level of protection that it has considered this natural space, which we remember is a reserve of the biosphere. This is particularly serious — that reform of Galicia's Environmental Protection Act and that two-year extension period of environmental impact declarations — in a context where Galicia's environmental protection and ecological defence should be a priority in addition to an obligation, which is already for any government. It is an obligation of the Government — I insist — to protect environmental spaces by introducing measures that are guaranteed and not by doing, as you propose with this amendment from the People's Parliamentary Group, by further undermining legislation on environmental protection, less guaranteeing and less protectionist in environmental and ecological terms. It also proposes reform of the Law of the University System of Galicia to extend the current funding plan of universities without having consulted at all the directors of the three public universities in that country. It's like a certain spoiler of themselves, isn't it? that they don't think they're sitting at all with the Greek universities or even to talk about the resources they need and the ones they've been demanding for the last few years to ensure, among other things, the ordinary functioning of the public universities themselves through the structural funds. We'll talk about this question where it remains full throughout the next day of tomorrow's day. They also had the last occurrence, in the face of the situation this country is experiencing through the plague of the barbarian, of the reform of the Hunting Law. It was the only occurrence and the only idea of the People's Party Government. A incapable government, for the ten years that you have been in front of the executive of the Galician Union, ten years, of making an inventory of the number of specimens of this animal exist in our country, the only thing you have to propose and put on the table, as a supposed solution to reach that slaughter of the boar, is to legalize the hunt at the jump. Let's not say what is proposed to extend, and legalize that moratorium in some way, in the limitation of opening betting houses, or bingo halls, waiting for them to bring the bill of play that we've been waiting for -- or at least listening to it -- since February 2018, it goes for two years. And all they have to do is, through a law of fiscal and administrative measures, of a law of accompaniment, try to extend over time something that is not sustained and that demands that this House of Commons be legitimate, as is everything related to the betting and the situation and the social conflicts that this is generating in our country. Since the BNG, we've been presenting a battery of amendments, in the bulk of which is aimed at emptying the content of this project, just like the rest of the years, and also reducing some of the proposals that are collected in the project in the most harmful aspects. Obviously, with regard to the amendments of the groups, we cannot make amendments on amendments, which also gives a good sense of how this procedure is instrumentalized. But I insist that we keep our amendments alive to empty out content, essentially, and also to reduce the most harmful aspects of some of the proposed changes. As far as the tax measures collected in the Accompanying Act are concerned — we have already defended it throughout the budget processing process, in the previous debates that have been given here in this same forum — the tax policy of the Galician People's Party's Union continues to sink into a tax policy of a regressive nature, which carries taxation on labour incomes and indirect taxes. Here is the application of the inheritance tax exemption of EUR 1 million to the second degree of kinship by obscenizing the great heritage. And on the other hand, we see how almost all fixed-continence rates are increased. In the vast majority of cases, we must remember that they are necessary for the exercise of activities or jobs that require licenses or certifications or permits. In our amendments, we try, within the limited competences that our country has recognised, because it introduces new elements — which are not so new, we have already formulated them on other occasions — such as creating this tax on large areas, which have a direct impact on local trade, or on sugared beverages, in line with what the scientific community is demanding — which calls for legislation to reduce the consumption of such products to prevent health damage and prejudices, especially children, they have; and, above all, to favour reduction in their compositions, because, if they want to pay less, large companies can also take measures that reduce the use of sugars that they introduce in this type of beverage. For my part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u13	Good afternoon. After hearing last year what Mr. Tellado said about the November 25 strike -- what was a machist strike -- and after listening to the earlier machist comment regarding Julia Torregrosa, what you have to ask yourself in such a case is about who writes the papers to Miguel Tellado, Jesulín de Ubrique, for example? Rafael Hernando? [[Murmurs.]] Jiménez Losantos? Or the parish priest of Baio? That's what you'd have to ask yourself. Or maybe they won't let you get out of the script, read everything you say, if any, and write it to you and check it out in the group before you talk. Well, the German Government doesn't fool anyone anymore. The budgets presented in conjunction with this accompanying law show a government that is totally in decline, that is unable to propose solutions, to have solutions, to have solutions, to the serious problems that this country has after ten years of systematic dismantling policies of the public, of total absence of economic public policies, which have the country in dire industrial crisis, of which this same government is not responsible. It is surprising that there are so many budgets in which there seems to be no industrial crisis here, that there is no depopulation of the rural environment, that there is no worsening demographic crisis in these ten years — because there is a demographic problem here, but anyone who sees the data sees that in the last ten years this data has been greatly aggravated. Well, where are the solutions in the budgets? Where are the solutions in the accompanying law? No, there is no solution. The People's Party's economic project has already been formulated into a bis accompanying law, which was the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, the Predation Law. That economic model sought to promote the facilities for mining, for electricity — with the expansion of the wind — and for low-value forest policy added and little wealth creation by which the People's Party bets. They ran out of project. It was a law that they said would serve to keep the capital from leaving northern Portugal. We don't know if from northern Portugal they can watch the windmills or extract the minerals from here, etc. Lies. Well, they ran out of the economic model. In this accompanying law they again affect the same vices. Since you don't have a public project for this country in search of general interest, what you transfer is requests from various lobbyists, who are making demands. Or even it serves to try to correct some mistake you've had to hurt the laws you've already made, it's worth it. This decadent government is again reforming the law that would bring stability to the urbanism of this country, the Law of the Land — one every six months, as tradition commands. And he even makes it contradictoryly to how this law was originally approved, after two years of expert appearances that said one thing and that now he's being turned around the lining — especially in the rustic soil. In this reform of the law — and I do not want to insist again on matters that we have denounced here — we try to highlight the shortcomings that the People's Party intends to commit and that they remove those issues, without much success. For example, we wanted, in our amendments, to withdraw the recovery of the technique from the past, from the worst urban pasts in this country, from the monetaryization of the soil. More than ever, there is a need for public policies on the ground. And you, with this measure, are disincenting the public policies of the municipalities' soil. The more it takes for all kinds of public policies, the more you are giving a letter of nature to a practice that has already been shown to be bad for the public archives, which is an absolute glue demanded over and over again by the promoters. This despite the growing number of disqualifications as they descend into the rest of the state, when there are 14,000 applicants for official protection housing, and when they are building 6 and 8 homes a year, an absolute scam to society, because you reduce the chances of making public soil policies. And on the other hand, he also returns to the past in the deprotection and deregulation of the rustic soil. Also, by the way, they deny us again in the amendment that we propose that 30% of the land reserve be generalized for protection housing. The amendment of the People's Party's Housing Act of 2012 was one of the ones responsible for the downgrading of the protection housing construction. We want it to be reserved by itself also to regulate the market and not to pass — as it is happening — that there is no mechanism of the Galician Union to regulate the prices of renters, which are preventing — as we have just heard today in a report by the Youth Council — the emancipation of many young people and girls, or delaying the emancipation of many young people and girls. And then they will complain that there are no children here. Well, how are we going to have daughters and children if young people can't be emancipated? Well, as I said, it turns to the unprotection of the rustic soil, at those times where everything could be done in the rustic soil, that of "you will do" i.e., the buildings raised in rustic soil with municipal license, whatever use for what was granted the authorization, can be transformed into housing — modification of the third transitional provision. For example, industrial vessels, public equipment located in rustic soil or agricultural warehouses may be transformed into residential dwellings or uses, including those illegally constructed, because the requirement that the person promoting residential building must be the owner of an agricultural or livestock holding is eliminated and the obligation to justify the suitability of the chosen placement is eliminated. I mean, let's go back to the plan of the 1956 Frankish Land Law. We must also in this law partially congratulate the People's Party, although it has been forced, because the Government of the State has taken the People's Party from the ear to withdraw Article 15.5.a) one of the various articles to which it has presented a conflict of unconstitutionality and with which a bilateral commission has been established, and which the People's Party has already withdrawn it preventively. But that, yes, in the explanatory statement says that, when changes are made to the Rehabilitation Act, it is to correct errors or omissions in the drafting of the law. They don't say it's because they've been thrown out of their ears. Great insimulation. We propose that all these articles should be removed once and for all. And it's not because they're unconstitutional, but if you're more moved by constitutionalism, because you do it, because besides being nonconstitutional, they attack our heritage, they attack values that are fundamental to our future. What you withdraw, 15.5.a) even though it seems like an insignificant thing, allowed, through partial plans, to eliminate the urban plots, the alignments and scrapings of this country's historical helmets, nothing more and nothing less; along with other measures of forced expropriation, of forced expropriation put for the benefit of private promoters. That would allow us to undo our heritage. We propose that another four articles be removed to protect something valuable for our future. Do it, because if you don't, you'll have to withdraw them later because the government of the State or the Constitutional Court will demand it. And that would give us a lot of weapons here to the opposition when we talk about the Constitution, more than we have. On the other hand, they're still doing dirty work for certain interests. In the extension period, so that there was no time to amend, the People's Party is presenting an amendment to the Government in which the period of validity of environmental impact declarations increases. And I say, why didn't it be done in the bill, why did it have to be the Group of the People's Party that did so, why is this done? In the commission, Mrs. Prado said it was for the partial mergers. Nice try, Mrs Prado, but there's a specific amendment that refers to partial mergers, and there's another specific amendment that refers to all kinds of activities. So if the object were the partial concentrations, why don't they just leave the increase in vigilance for the partial concentrations, Mrs. Prado?, and why do they also leave the increase in the vigilance of the environmental impact declaration for the electric companies that are building wind, or for the miners, which are the ones that speculate with their activity? Because what I know about the productive economy, for example, is a farmer who wants to increase his exploitation or make a new exploitation — there's a few new ones, too, by his policies — what he's looking forward to being approved by the environmental impact study or the environmental impact declaration so he can start with the works. He's waiting. They only have a problem with the vigil of the environmental impact statement companies that at the moment they don't want to build because, for prices, for electricity premiums or for funding, they don't have to carry forward their operations; as it was -- and it's said here -- in the wind farm in the Oribio greenhouse, which they've been waiting for the promoters to come better times to do business. And that's why they prefer, of course, not to make an environmental impact statement. They prefer to make the wind park with the legislation that existed in 2005, which does not guarantee the conservation and protection of environmental, heritage and landscape values. That's it! It's also about that when they do it retroactive to the wind, they're doing it to the wind. You are making the laws and amending the laws to benefit certain companies, so of course. And that's why they increase the vigil of the environmental impact statement. They did it because they came to ask them, because they came to ask them, and so they kept on eating. Well, then we have a government in decline and collapse in rural areas. After ten years of lack of policies in rural areas, they can't and can't manage the minimum. There's a serious problem with the population of jabaril, there's a serious problem of disorder in rural areas. You've done nothing, you're incapable of making strict policies, planning and sustaining policies for a while. Here is, for example, the reprogramming of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Plan. They just rescheduled it. They removed all the games that need a minimum management by the Rural Media Council, which is research, innovation or economic diversification, to send it to games that are easily executable, works, cement, asphalt... because it doesn't even need public administration. Well, now it turns out that they get out of their sleeves from day to day — because the protests of theirs were many — that they can go hunting every day of the year. And even the guarantees are lowered when you can go hunting in couples. And you've come here to tell us that this was a danger to people, that it was a danger and that you had to be very careful with the biggest hunter. They came here to transmit it to us. You agreed with the ecologists and the hunters. Well, they also come from the model villages and from using the training courses to unravel. Careful with that! Careful with that! I'm careful to swindle people. If there's training courses, it's to give people a training that's useful later for their professional life, not to solve their problem of having a country abandoned. And then there are the model villages. The aim is to allocate human and economic resources to rural areas. If there are human and economic resources for rural people, there are many ways to make policies. But the problem is, you don't devote economic or human resources to rural life. Because you say we have to make a forest-related plan for all districts of Galicia and do not increase the staffing of the Rural Environment Council to have the staff to do so. And, of course, when that doesn't change, we're hardly going to believe that you're going to do something as basic as having ordered the mountain of this country. And much less we're going to believe, when in the reprogramming of the 2014-2020 RDP you eliminate everything that is the game to do the forest resource management plans -- because you know they won't do it even though the counselor and Mr. Feijó will come next and assume that it's not worth anything -- that here you're going to have forest management and resource plans all over the country. Lies and more lies! It's a lie after another. Then — since I do not have much time — of the amendments to try to end the outcome of the People's Party, we propose two to show the lack of rigour and seriousness in their policies. It's two. We propose to make a new sectoral wind plan in Galicia. How can it be that, with changes in the wind sector at the environmental and legislative level, and at the technological level, the Galician Sector Plan dates back to 2002?, as is justified by the People's Party? And how is it possible that you bet on mining from the People's Party without having approved the main and only instrument of mining planning in this country, which is the Sectoral Plan of Extractive Activities, according to the Law of 2008, of Galician mining.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u15	You should be ashamed that, since 2008 that law is in force, this country does not have a planning tool to combine productive or extractive activity with minimum conservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u16	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Porritt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u17	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing the bill's report on tax and administrative measures and, as I said this morning, after two months of work, we are practically at the same point of departure. This parliamentary group presented 119 amendments and the result was: 1 approved, 3 negotiated and 2 subsumed. It's 6 of 119, 5%. And I begin by rejecting again the use of this form of processing, the use of this form of legalizing the governments of the People's Party, of the governments of Manuel Fraga and of Nuñez Feijóo, taking advantage, as it has been said, of these laws accompaniment of annual budgets to amend all kinds of laws even if they have no connection with tax matters. A procedure is used that we already say is legal but that, of course, is not the best way to legislate. It limits political, social debate and parliamentary debate, and is done without the preliminary reports. It's also an unnecessary form of legislation given its absolute majority. And, as we've already said, this form of strategy, of changing all kinds of rules, contrasts with its legislative inability. As for this tenth legislation, through these accompanying laws the Union has amended 59 previous laws; 27 of them have been corrected on more than one occasion, and 5 have been corrected every year: the Law of the Land, the Law of social services, the Law of Internal Trade, the Law of Public Employment and the Law of Rates. On the contrary, 15 laws have been adopted: 6 in 2017, 1 in 2018 —Junta went to Parliament with less legislation — and in the course of the year, 5 — three of which will be reformed with this project. This year, through this bill, it initially amends 30 laws of all kinds — three of them, as I said, adopted this 2019: the Urban Rehabilitation and Regeneration Act, the Digital Administration Act and the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act. And I say "initially" because one step further has been taken by the People's Party, and also by the Joint Left Group, which on this occasion joins this way of acting. The People's Party and the Joint Left Group have tabled a series of amendments to the articulated to amend laws which did not appear collected in the bill itself, with a questionable connection and which, when presented in the process of amendments, as also noted, prevents other parliamentary groups from exercising their power and right to examine and present amendments, since there is no right to amend Article 112 of the House's Rules of Procedure and the right to represent Article 23 of the Spanish Constitution is absolutely restricted. So it's a form of legislation — as I said before — that would be unnecessary given its absolute majority. This law of measures can't be a tailor's drawer where, among other things, they do it anyway. And when we get into the matter, we keep the 119 amendments submitted, the 3 accepted, the subsumed or traded, as well as the 113 remaining. With regard to Title I of the tax measures, we are talking ultimately about why we are betting, whether by a model based on the principles set out in Article 31 of the Constitution — principles of justice, equality and progressiveness — by a tax model that enables us to achieve the principle of social justice, a model that enables us to strengthen the state of well-being, or if we are committed to a regression system, which benefits wealth and capital against income from work, a model that promotes inequalities. The latter is the model of the Galician Union, a model which, year after year, deepens the regressive character of its tax policy and which deals better with those who have the most income or wealth. It is a Union of Galicia that consciously renounces the full availability of resources due to lack of project and the lack of ambition for building a more modern country, a more just country. Our discrepancy with tax policy has to do with the need to subject existing tax benefits to rigorous scrutiny to assess their relevance or effectiveness, and to strengthen the progressive nature of taxation itself or given by using autonomous regulatory capacity, as well as to extend, modernise and unify extra-fiscal tax instruments, favoring a more sustainable economic model. We tabled 30 amendments to Title I, to tax measures, and 17 are to Article 1, which has to do with the IRPF. They are amendments that try to advance in progressiveness and in equal taxation, amendments that look at increasing the tax rate in higher stages, limiting deductions based on the taxable base — not on income, tax base — which already takes into account the personal circumstances of family units by applying the minimums, taking into account the taxpayer's age, the number of children, the risers and disability. There are a number of amendments that try to ensure that all those deductions that relate to housing apply only to habitual housing. Another group of amendments intended that deductions would be carried out with the income obtained in the fiscal year, preventing the transfer of funds from wealth, from the taxpayer's estate — a property that might not be taxed. And other amendments are of a social nature. Although we say that we debate and negotiate, we come to the presentation with everything done, there is no negotiation or study of amendments. The PP tells us the ones who accept and there ends the negotiation. For this reason, these 17 amendments were requested to be reconsidered for the debate in committee of the following: Amendment No. 6, which has to do with the green deduction. Where it was said "passive subject" it was asked to change to "declaration". Well, Mrs. Prado said in the commission that those family units that opted for joint taxation would be harmed and that, as our most restrictive amendment, it could not be accepted. Well, actually, that was our goal. You say we're more restrictive. I'd say we bet on progressiveity, by limiting the amount. We're talking about the fact that in joint taxation these EUR 9,000 base and additional EUR 150 per household can be multiplied by the number of members of the family unit; because, in the event that children were holders of a real estate — for example, inherited — the current wording could also make use of it. For a family of four, we could talk about up to 6,000 euros of deduction on the autonomic quota. Who's going to address this deduction? Of course not most of the population of Galicia. We ask you again to turn that deduction around and set a maximum; if you do not want to fix it in the 9,000 euros, you will set a maximum. There is a second group of amendments in which, as I said, we wanted to limit the source of the deduction funds, which is a requirement to apply all state deductions related to investment. Mrs Prado said that they were not accepted because the aim was to encourage investment regardless of the source of the funds and the tax base. More, he said, the higher the tax base, the more investor capacity he has. So it's clear who they're legislating. Amendment No 10, which has to do with rent deduction. We call for an increase in the number of people who can benefit from it in addition to those under 35 years of age, such as those who are unemployed who have to accept a job and have to change their homes, women who are victims of gender violence, contributors with disabilities whose habitual living is not adapted to their circumstances — for example without a lift or with narrow doors in their homes. We ask that it be applied to victims of gender-based violence — I think I have already said — and also to those people who have to change their homes as a result of a separation process. On this occasion, Mrs. Prado said that they did not accept it because they considered it more timely and immediate use of aid, to go through the expense and not through the income route a year later. Well, first of all, they're not incompatible. And with regard to the rental aid here, you have the data. The Greek Government's renting aid leaves out 91.5 per cent and 82% of the applicants on both support lines. Amendment No. 17 — regarding increased deduction for single-parent families — which seeks to allow it to be applied to dependent ascendants regardless of their age. In the same way, it was considered more convenient to go through aid rather than through income. So reconsideration. I'd say it's a theater, it's an excuse. They reject the question of substance without solid arguments. Our tax models are absolutely different and there's no will. I'm not going to talk about inheritance tax amendments anymore. I've treated him in the middle of November 18th. We consider this minimum free of up to a million is unfair and regressive, and it's not a social petition. It's only going to benefit that 1% of the population that has increased its wealth by 500%. With regard to this inheritance tax, as far as the reductions in participation in societies are concerned, our amendments are bound to require that the aforementioned entities develop their activity in Galicia, which create jobs in Galicia. It's not enough for your tax or social home to be found in Galicia. Changes to property tax are meant to increase tax rates, reduce the minimum exempt rate and also reduce the value of the usual housing, which is currently one million euros. With amendments to the tax on heritage transmissions, we are of course opposed to the application of the reduced rate in rural areas to what is not habitual housing. And here we also present one of the amendments that we ask it to be reconsidered, Amendment No. 24, in which we asked that the type applicable to the purchase of habitual housing, being victims of gender-based violence, be 5%. Well, in this case it was of interest to the People's Party and even quantified it — EUR 569,556 — even though our amendment was not accepted because, as Mrs Prado said, it would lead them to disregard the objective of stability. It seems that the measuring rod is not always the same as Mr. Puy in the joint debate on the amendment tabled by the People's Party to satisfy the salary supplements recognised to university staff — fair remuneration to which they have a right — qualified as a empirical increase of EUR 800,000 and thus assumed. So it's a matter of will and not numbers. And behind the numbers there are people; in this case, women who are victims of gender-based violence who well deserve an effort. As far as Title II is concerned, the administrative measures, which is one of the most important parts, are amended by 89 amendments. With regard to public employment in Together, through this project, it modifies the eighth and ninth layouts by creating new scales or specialties, assigning them in most cases a function that involves a box of tailors where everything is in place; a function that is arbitrary and can result in functions that, out of regulated control, convert them into total discretionality of the Administration. This function says: "Any other analog contained or related to previous functions". The Public Employment Act, as we have already said, is one that changes every year. Our 49 amendments, of which only one has been accepted — as referred to in paragraph 6 of the PP — are aimed at defining the functions assigned to each specialty. As regards public employment, the Government's inability to manage transfer contests, public job offers and the processes for the operation and stabilization of employees, together with the continuation of the validity of Law 1/2012, which is only waived in respect of benefits due to temporary incapacity, in line with the state agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u19	Finished in two seconds. Since I'm out of time, I'll leave the rest for the second shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u21	Thank you, President. As a previous question, and to answer Mr Sánchez, I want to claim the role of women in politics. I want to claim that when I as a Member have an intervention, if I am treated exactly like a fellow man. Here, in this House, we saw how on one occasion Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo criticized our companion Sandra Vázquez telling her that the speech had been written to her. Mr. Torrado in the Committee on Fisheries has told our colleague Teresa Egerique countless times that the speeches, notes and so on were written to her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No one's been apologizing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today a colleague tells a Member who writes the speech to her, and it turns out that this is Machism, but to the same Member and President of the Union, when Mr Villares asked the President, he said that whoever did the papers to her was Mr Lago. That's not machismo. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, sincerely, to pollute the struggle of feminism by accusing men or women of giving a political woman in political debate a matter of men and women I am very sorry but it's a feminism of leafy. [[Murmurs.]] And I, as a woman, claim equal treatment in politics for men and women. [[Applause]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Mrs. Torregrosa, I understand that you find Mr. Tellado's comment wrong, but he had to look bad on his own, not as if it were a masculine attack. That was your mistake, Mrs. Torregrosa, that's your mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u22	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u23	Because if women want to achieve full equality, we have to fit the criticisms from wherever they come. And having to... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies, let me talk!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u24	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u25	I appeal to the cord, I appeal to the cord. And if we want to achieve true equality, we have to be very careful when we label things like Machism, ladies and gentlemen. If any critics label it as machoism, weak favor is due to feminism, weak favor is due to feminism. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I claim equal treatment. I claim equal treatment for women in politics. I claim that they criticize me just as they criticize a man, a fellow Member. I claim, ladies and gentlemen, that they criticize my speeches, I claim that, because I claim equality between women and men. [[Applause]] And you, if you feel offended because a man... Oh, it's so much better if I'm a woman, so it's nice if a Member tells another Member to write to her... Oh, that's not machismo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is it paternalism then? What is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u26	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u27	Look, ladies and gentlemen, I don't share that selective feminism, I'm sorry. I don't share the feminism of leafy. I claim equal treatment for women and men in politics. [[Applause]] Well, we're debating, at the last plenary session of the year, the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures, a rule that, as I have already said on previous occasions, although it's not the best tool in terms of the legislative technique, I have to say in your favor and acknowledge that, in addition to allowing for the reduction of taxes and the updating of administrative fees, it solves issues that are hampering the application of some other regulations, or allows for speeding up procedures that improve the relationship between citizenship and administration. I insist on telling you, as I said in previous debates, that the people we temporarily spend on politics have a clear commitment to society to try to solve problems and make life easier for people. What we cannot agree with, from the People's Parliamentary Group, is that you see the Law of measures as a series of falsehoods, which we must dismantle. You say the debate is stolen. This is absolutely false. We had the whole debate, we had several meetings in speech, we had the debate in committee. Even some Members who came here today said that if the debate was stolen, it didn't even consume more than half the time I had in committee. He had plenty of time left for the debate. And let's not talk about the media debate you've raised with this law. We are before an absolutely constitutional law that respects the spirit of the ruling of the Constitutional Court 76/1992. It completely respects the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. The reforms that are made in the law and which have to do with certain collectives have been discussed and agreed with them; for example, in the field of public employment, in the sectoral table. The part affecting the taxi or VTC vehicles has also been agreed with those sectors. We, as a parliamentary group, have received affected sectors, just as you have received them; because it shows me that when they come to see the People's Parliamentary Group they will also see the rest of the groups. Therefore, the groups affected have been heard and there has been this social debate. No way the reforms are done in hiding. All the reforms were explained to citizenship and, as I have already said, some were even announced long before the Law of Measures entered the House, as it was in the debate of the state of Autonomy, when the president announced the free educational care in children's schools from 0 to 3 years for second children. Mr. Casal said here that the income criterion had to be introduced. Well, clear up, Mr. Casal, because sometimes they're interested in the income criterion and sometimes they don't. I remember that even in a debate in which I said whether they wanted to pay the daycare center to the grandson of Amancio Ortega there was a companion of yours — or former companion, or either of yours — who came to say that he — to her — did not care that they had paid the daycare center to the grandson of Amancio Ortega so that they had paid it to everyone else. So, agree, because with the freeness of textbooks, the exact same thing happened. If you put it for rent, you want it to be universal; when you put a universal measure, you want it for rent. They agree first on themselves and then see if they're able to agree with each other. We're before an ordinary law. It's not a law, as you said here, which is fast, running and so on. Ask their Compromise comrades and the Valencian socialists, who presented it to the margins of budgets. That's for the record. Yes, but those are yours. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know that later they'll tell me that, of course, I compare with the worst. I just put them against the mirror, because you say one thing when you're in the opposition but do the opposite when you're in the government. It would be nice if they had some consistency, unless you were an island apart from their party. The law we have approved today will allow as important issues as the following: virtually eliminating the tax of succession; facilitating succession in family businesses; promoting the acquisition of housing in areas with little populations with the lowest taxation of Spain — I know that some say that they are summer zones, they began by saying that if Sanxexoxo, if you don't know what..., and after they were already changing, they no longer knew very well where it affected; Mr. Casal, goes for you—; implementing a green deduction to promote energy efficiency in the homes; creating 22 new staff scales of staff to make effective the voluntary functioning process of the fixed labour force worker, and the creation of the upper workplace guidance scale, which we introduced as amended way—and, of course, after listening to the affected collective, just as you have listened to it, and therefore you have also introduced amendments in this sense; therefore, very often to the hidden games we do not seem to dothings , we dothings— ; facilitating the knowledge and control of the use of the use of the use oflife- use oflife- basedactivities ; you use of livingresources ; or the use of livingresources ; or the use of livingresources ; and use of livingresources ; and use of livingresources ; and use of livingresources ; and use ofliving ; and use ofliving ; and use of use of livingresources ; and use ofliving ; and use ofliving ; and use ofliving ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use oflife ; and use ofliving ; and use oflife ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use of use ofresources ; and use of use of use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use of use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use of use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; and use ofresources ; andresources ; and useof With this last theme, I'm glad that you are now very aware, because look, the People's Party in 2016, when you presented yourself to the elections, took you to the electoral program. And do you know who governed the big cities in Galicia in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019? You guys. And do you know how many licenses they gave from betting rooms in Santiago, A Coruña and Ferrol? Everyone in the world, ladies and gentlemen. Ah! that's right, they put a moratorium on Santiago so no more hotels were opened in the historical quarter, they put a moratorium on Santiago so no more tourist floors could be made in the historical quarter. Oh, but a moratorium on betting houses didn't happen to them. You can see that they weren't very sensitive to the subject. So I, honestly... No, you were supporting us, Mrs. Rodil, you were supporting those governments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So a lot of speeches, a lot of speeches, you don't have a lot of speeches either. It's really a problem that we all have to try to solve, but here nobody's getting medals because none of you are in a position to put medals to fight against gambling houses and against the increase in the game by minors and younger people. We also extend the deadline for the environmental impact declarations. Yes, Mr Sánchez, from four to six years old, because Law 21/2013 has expanded the minimum contents of environmental impact studies, as you know, and has incorporated the need to have new reports from sectoral bodies as a precondition. It is crucial to incorporate these reports into the file for solvency resolution of impact declarations. It is considered that, by extending the period of validity of the declarations once resolved, there would be no delay in the resolution of the files, because they will not have to be paralysed to carry out a new evaluation process. I sincerely believe that this is in favour of speeding up administrative procedures. You can think of something else, as you always think. It's the same as when we admit an amendment. They always complain that we don't accept the amendments; and, when we accept them an amendment, they make them turn around, turn around, and they start to distrust until they finally withdraw the amendment. Mr. Sánchez, the truth is, it's very surprising. A lot of bronca must have been thrown into your group by that amendment to end up withdrawing it and not allowing it to be incorporated into the legislative project. Of course, I couldn't tell you right now that you are part of all those amendments to the Law of Land that makes the Law of Measurement, right, Mr. Sánchez? [[Murmurs.]] Out of the way! Out of the way, out of the way! Well, Mr. Sánchez said that the deadline for the environmental impact declaration of the partial concentration projects would be extended. Certainly, in Galicia we have a difficulty added to these processes by the singularities of our territory and the fragmentation of property, which significantly hinder progress in these processes of improvement of the territorial structure. Therefore, we believe it important that those parcels that have already made the statement do not lose it because there are those difficulties. In addition to its previous recruitment and the need for it to be documented, we have now introduced a greater realization of the temporary requirements required — yes, with the consensus of the most representative associations of these professional and business activities in Galicia. We legally clarify the minimum advance of fifteen minutes that must be between the prior recruitment of the service and its material provision by the company, reserving the activity of the taxi to the provision of discretionary services currently contracted at the stops or through the means established for the purpose. And this proposal is in full legal line also with the market unit guarantee regulations, specifically with Law 20/2013 of 9 December. With regard to tourist dwellings, the Popular Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the explanatory statement because there are several compelling reasons for general interest that justify the amendment of the regulation on tourist dwellings contained in Article 65a). We have established a regulation of tourist housing according to and consistent with the tourism model of excellence, quality, sustainability and guarantee of the rights of tourism users provided for in Law 7/2011, of tourism in Galicia. It is both respectful of the principles of necessity and proportionality required by Law 17/2009, of free access to service activities and their exercise, and by Law 20/2013 of 9 December 2013 of the guarantee of market unity. You will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to ensure that tourism services are provided to ensure the proper protection of the rights of persons who use these services and to avoid errors and confusion with regard to services covered by tourist regulations that violate such rights and against good faith in commercial transactions. We are talking about seeking sustainable tourism development, looking for excellence and tourism quality and the development of the values of the culture and identity of Galicia through tourism, as well as the protection of the urban environment. All this requires measures to avoid a disorderly tourist model that can affect its sustainability and coexistence. We also introduced measures to prevent fires, in particular the amendment of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act, with the legal establishment of a public biomass management system which guarantees more efficiency and efficiency in the performance of public administrations. It is simply to give it legal status to something that is already agreed with the Fegamp — 252 municipalities that are affiliated — and also to strengthen cooperation between administrations and enhance active employment policies; above all, those linked to training programmes and professional practices, such as dual employment workers, which assume a minimum part of the set of actions contained in the comprehensive plan of preventive action by 2020 in order to reduce the risks of forest fires in Galicia. And on model villages, we need to promote land mobilization through model village programs as a system for the recovery and value of the lands surrounding population nuclei and with the objective of promoting land mobilization through integrated actions to recover the agronomic capacity of the project perimeter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u29	...as well as rehabilitation and urban architectural recovery. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, if you have any alternative to conquer the same goal. It's about fixing rural populations, it's about recovering... No, it's not a land bank, Mrs. Rodil, you know that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it requires a budget forecast for 2020 about EUR 4.5 million for mobility projects. That's twice as much as 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u31	The forecast is to make 20 villages model for the year 2020. The truth is, if they don't trust them, ask them where they're working, who's signing these projects completely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u32	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u33	Thank you. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u34	I thank Mrs. Prado for hearing my speech, but I don't think she understood it. Of course we want a universal service from 0 to 3 years, a universal service of freeness in teaching from 0-3 years, but from the first child or daughter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the difference. What I was thinking about is that the injustice is that a family with high incomes has free kindergartens for the second daughter or son and a family with low incomes does not have it for the first. That's unfair to me; perhaps not to you. And that's where our proposal was. And I'm not going to take it all the time because I think it's all too much talked about, but I'm going back to the most important of what I've said, I'm sure that it's also heard in my first intervention: that what you really miss in this accompanying law is that amendment in you — which I don't know, President, if you can do in plenary if you approve it all the rest of the groups, if you approve it, if the rest of the groups — because I insist that it's been over an hour since I intervened before, and you're the best now, when I intervene again, you can say you're going to agree to make an amendment number 34 — we're not going to talk about improvisation in this case because I think the circumstances exist — about the territorial management of the public health system in Galicia and the health benefits and health programs that should be developed throughout the territory, and make sure that it's illegal — now, but that it's illegal. I couldn't be out because I've been intervening here all morning in the plenary, and I didn't need to have the Compostela come here today, and they've shown it explicitly for more than two weeks. For the most important thing in today's plenary was that if you had voted that you were going back on this issue and that you had to guarantee by law that in all the comarcas hospitals, that throughout Galicia, health rights would be guaranteed equally, with equal rights, with equal benefits, and that there was no impact like that that which fortunately had no greater consequences than moral damage, violence, which involved everything that happened in Vienna a few days ago. Well, maybe this would be the most important thing in the whole, because everyone else already knew. All the amendments to the opposition are taken, all the amendments to the People's Party are approved — including in this law, which has already been drafted by the Government and you, again, make 33 changes at the last moment — and surely it would be the cover of all the newspapers tomorrow that the People's Party marches back and approves a amendment by themselves — the rest of the groups sure that we will support it — to put back those measures that threaten equality, health equality between all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I'm sure this would be what would give all the Galicians — especially in this case — who already live in the Coruña, live in Verín, live in Ribadeo or live anywhere in Galicia. Think about it. There's still another 20 minutes, we're still in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u35	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u36	Thank you, President. A previous question concerning the debate that has been raised: I believe that, if we did not make personal attacks during the political debates, we would save a lot of explanations like those we have just seen; among other things, because this should be based, the normal functioning of this House, in the recognition that we all make ourselves and all of us of the sober and sufficient capacity to be here, to be here! At least I, and my group, all of you and all of you assume sufficient and full right capacity to be here, of course. [[Applause]] And contrary to what has happened in some other debate, I also presume that they are able to add and subtract, which has been questioned by the majority group on the forces of the opposition. And then I think that when someone gets wrong -- I've done the first many times -- it's best to apologize and admit it, to apologize and not to look for or try to find arguments to justify myself, I think it's unfair. Having said this, indeed, the process of processing through what is known as "the omnibus laws" — chess drawers, as it was said, which are the accompanying laws to budgets, is legal. It is legal, it says, moreover, the Constitutional Court, the holy sanctuary of legality in the Spanish State, which also considers it legal and avalanche that workers who are on strike, for example, are dismissed; the question that since the Nationalist Block, Galicia, we believe violates the fundamental rights of workers and workers. And the Constitutional is also going to fire workers who are on their way down — three, by the way, in Extel, in Coruña a few days ago. Actually, it's legal. What do we say in the previous debate, in the previous plenary session, from the BNG? That it's neither ethical nor aesthetic, nor much less the way the Galician Nationalist Block has to legislate and understand what legislative procedures should be in a democratic and participatory system. They cannot vent more than thirty laws on a pen, as if they were a single legislative project, which is what we are doing here, reforming thirty laws with a single debate and as if it were a single legislative project, beyond that, as if it were also pointed out — and we also said it throughout the process of processing this law — that we are stealing the debate, stealing the participation capacity of the social sectors that are affected by the reforms, and also not counting on the preceptive reports, with which they would be mandatory following an ordinary processing process. But what's the matter? That you use this mechanism because it's convenient for you, because it's convenient for you, and because you ventilate the reform of more than thirty laws from a pen, skipping all those processes that I've just reported and that would continue in an ordinary processing process, and because you both have ethics, aesthetics, dialogue, parliamentary participation and political participation. And I say again what we said throughout the debate, throughout the whole parliamentary session, what this is about sovereignty, what one believes is that he is in possession of absolute truth and, at worst, in a position of superiority. And then they have their amendments, in a process that now seems to be added — also in agreement with Mrs. Porritt — to the Joint Left Group, which is to introduce the reform of legislative texts that are not included in the bill. And for the sake of his good intentions, Mr. Sánchez, if it's critical of the government's support group, it should also be for the forces that make up the opposition groups. If you're against the use and abuse of a legislative processing process like this one, you should be independent of the targets you pursue. But I say that, with regard to these amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, I have not found in the popular oral tradition another sentence to explain it — I am open to all the recommendations and popular wisdom in this House — but it is a Juan Palomo, I taste it and I like it. Because we cannot, absolutely, even question that reform which is being carried out in that period of monitoring of environmental impact declarations for the partial concentration processes, and for what they are not partial concentration processes, because the Environmental Protection Act is reformed, if I remember correctly, of the year 1995 — no exception is made to the text you propose. [[Applause]] We insist that this is not the way, that it is not the way in which we understand since Greek nationalism which must be legislated in a country in a democratic system. The only answer is to their own convenience, to give them forward to their occurrences, which we do not know then even how long they will be in effect, and -- and with this finished, president -- to the legislative improvisation. I'll give you an example of your own amendments, that of Amendment No. 10 from the People's Party. You delete Article 22a of the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Forest Fires. With Article 22a, in 2017 —in the budget project for 2018 — you created the biomass management fund through the sale of forbidden species withdrawn by the Administration. This seemed important in 2017, after the fire strike; by the year 2018 it was introduced with an accompanying law and by the year 2019 it was decided, considering that it is no longer useful, that it is suppressed. That's not how things are done. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u38	Mrs. Prado, after listening to you, I withdraw what I said Miguel Tellado wrote him his Jesulin speeches from Ubrique. I think you write them and he writes them to Jesulin de Ubrique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u39	Don't make a lot of jokes about it, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u40	I'll take it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u41	No, no, no. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u42	No, no, I'm withdrawing the one from Jesulin from Ubrique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u43	Excuse me a moment, the time is up. I think I've already spoken, or didn't you understand me? I know that all Members make speeches. They also told me many times if I was doing the Health Council. He never made me, I did them all. So this is supposed to be everybody. But they don't dig there anymore, something that is no longer worth it. The Members here make their speeches. The subject is over, please! [[Murmurs.]] The story dies here, it's done. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u44	Mr. President, sometimes I have a hand, I have to admit it. I was speaking metaphorically, as you said before. [[Laughter]] Well, you did bring what you answered in writing, because we basically didn't argue today, because we're already very tired of doing so, about the abuse you make of the use of the law of accompaniment. Instead, you said we said it. We didn't say. In such a case, you... in committee, yes, it is true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not today, but how did I bring the committee papers, so... [[Murmurs.]] You, Mrs. Prado, repeat again and again that you don't like what is being done. You say: I don't like it, but it's legal, and elsewhere it gets worse. That's what you say. You're a self-sufficient militant from the People's Party, disciplined, who even does and defends things that you don't like. All right. It must also be like the Austrian Members and the Orennese Members of the Paritory of Verín. Then I want you to explain it well, I want you to explain it well, the increase in the duration of the environmental impact statement. You came here and said that with Law 21/2013 -- it rained, it rained, they hurried enough to bring the adaptation of Law 21/2013 -- the preceptive and decisive reports that were incorporated could be delayed -- the determining reports have to be before the environmental impact statement was approved. And the vigil of the environmental impact declaration is after the environmental impact declaration is approved. Tell me, explain that to me! I mean, all reports have to be ready before the environmental impact statement is approved. And then you say that in Law 21/2013 there are reports that make it late... well, a cocoa...! No, tell the truth. You increase the vigency for certain companies that play with time when you start your business from four to six years. Because I'm telling you, when it's a productive activity, like a gainful exploitation or any business in rural or urban life, what you're looking for is that you approve the environmental impact statement before so you can get the work done and start with the business. There are only certain sectors in which they play with the times, for example -- and I've already set an example -- the electrics that implant the wind when economically it suits them and the ones that you do the work to suit them. Tell me. Also explain to me the amendment of the Natural Heritage Act, which I told you that we approved three months ago — or four months ago — a natural heritage law in which we were accepted virtually nothing, it was perfect, it was niched in the Natural Heritage Act, there was no failure. And suddenly, after saying that environmental damage doesn't prescribe, they now prescribe. How is that? Now they say it's a writing that invites confusion, that 15 years ago they haven't prescribed the damage. If you don't prescribe, you'll never put 15 years of prescription. Explain to me how you justify that change more than because you came to them... as you said, we're visited by collectives to convey our demands, and that's why we're moving amendments. What group has visited you, Mrs Prado, to ask you to increase the validity of the environmental impact statement? Or was it a phone call? [[Applause]] About the villages model to fix population and tax reliefs to fix population, let's see, how will you improve the land registrations if you've been in rural for four years now that we've had zero taxes on rural land? But are they paying people or what?Oh, my God! In this legislation they were zero taxes, and they keep coming down, they keep coming down... this is incredible. [[Murmurs.]] This can't be. [[Laughter]] And on the other hand, IGE and INE data tell us that it continues to drop faster than ever in rural areas, it continues to grow older at more speed than ever in rural areas, and the vegetable balance is beating records, it's the worst of all in the Spanish state. [[Murmurs.]] Changing politics, it's not worth anything. Degravations in the purchase of rural housing are not worth anything to fix the population, for nothing! If there's a problem in rural areas, it's not exactly the price of housing, which they give. [[Applause]] They give their homes in rural areas. Yes, yes, yes, compare! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Patiño, I hear you, I hear you! Ask yourself what the prices are and where the prices are. It's mostly in urban areas, where there's pressure. In rural, the problem is not housing, the problem is having job opportunities, decent jobs, decent public services and not dismantling them, as you are doing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u45	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Porritt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u46	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, you've already told us that this method of processing isn't the one you like most, but the truth is that year after year they come to use it. We already recognize opposition groups which are a form of legal legislation, but which is not the best, and given its absolute majority, it is not necessary. By the way, this method of processing was not used by the government of progress formed by the PSdeG and the BNG in the four budgets they approved. The laws are alive, as you say, Mrs. Prado, but there really are some who suffer from stress. And as far as negotiation is concerned, you say yes, that one of our amendments, one of 49, 49 amendments consistent with the unions, has been accepted. The truth is that once again the Galician Union does what it does in the field of public employment is to put patches. And what I would have to do -- and that if the union organizations demand it -- is put in place the design of the precautionate 12 years ago. As for the nursery of the grandson of Amancio Ortega, because we also bet on freeness. If Amancio Ortega, their companies and others paid their taxes, if we had a progressive tax system that distributes through income and also redistributes itself through spending by boosting public services, we could give it free of charge. With regard to the freeness of education in children's schools from 0 to 3 years old, which the Council of Galicia proposes from the second child, we believe that the number of children cannot be the determinant of freeness. We wagered for free from the first child, always depending on the economic capacity of family units, and that's why we tabled Amendment No 101. In this case, the text of the project that keeps Pôncia is more restrictive for conditioning the so-called gratuity to a number of children, considering, moreover, that women want to have, on average, two children but that only "can" -- and I highlight that they can -- have one. So our amendment is more in line with the existing reality. And with regard to the reduction in the type of property transmission tax in rural areas, Mr Sánchez, you were not very attentive because Mrs Prado in the Commission said that there were two objectives: one was to establish population and the other was to dynamize economically. I don't know if St. Vincent - The Grove -, Baredo - The Bay - or Dexo - Oleiros - needs to be economically improved. And I don't know how it's going to be, either, because we're talking about a rural without services and no kind of offer. So we reaffirm ourselves in our amendments and we will vote 'no' to dictate. We do it, firstly, by the use made by the People's Party of this mechanism that you don't like but which you use year after year, which should have an exceptional character to introduce legal changes but what you do is a real Cambalache. We are doing so, secondly, because of its regressive fiscal policy that we are refusing to move forward in the implementation of a tax system which is more effective and progressive in the objective of strengthening the state of well-being. And we think they're the last budgets and also the last law to accompany an exhausted project. These are budgets that are already eleven years old in the decision of the government of Feijóo, the budgets of continuity, inaction and lack of initiative. And although today again — as it has happened in the morning — this measure of the Law will be passed by its absolute majority, of course we do not share it. We think that this government is a scourge for the country and that these budgets and this law that accompany them are the shaping of an exhausted project and a failed government. Therefore, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is committed to Galicia and to the Greeks, will defend citizenship against its lack of economic and industrial policy, against its abandonment of the territory, against attacks on public services and the defeat of health and against a regressive tax system that rewards those who have the most. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Porritt. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u48	Sessions of the Galician Parliament, No. 20, of 8 March 2017: "Mr. Rodríguez Rumbo: Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry I don't remember your name, but I'm going to tell you one thing -- and I'm not saying it for bad -- but whoever did the notes to you has no idea what he put there." "I also bring notes, which often do because I don't know everything. And that's what I mean, not that she can't do. Careful! that I respect women above all. And I'm not missing you..." I'm reading, please! [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u49	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u50	"And I'm not missing her or anyone. Who made his notes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u51	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u52	"I also bring notes made by myself of data that give me, and I'm not a machist."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u53	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, listen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u54	Mr. Sánchez, look, I don't care if you tell me you gave me the Jesulin speech from Ubrique, Paquirrin or anyone else. But, look, for the laughter of your colleagues, it seems to you that whoever did it was J. J. Vaquero. But, look, I'm not going to do it is to continue in this dynamic. [[Murmurs.]] I simply appeal to everyone's responsibility and, when there is a criticism, to be taken politically. Because I agree with Mrs. Rodil that all of us who are part of this House have demonstrated our ability to occupy the seat we occupy. And any criticism that can be made must be interpreted politically, unless there is an exaggeration or a question out of tone, which I don't think was the case. [[Murmurs.]] And disrespect is lacking every day, every day and every group, of all Members and Members. But tagging as a machist when disrespect is from a man to a woman — I insist — weak favor is done to the cause of equality. [[Applause]] Here we talked about lowering taxes to the rich and raising taxes to the poor and others. Look, when we get to the Government -- listen, Mrs. Porritt, I think it's very interesting because you said we had different models, and indeed we have different models -- look, when you left the Government, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, in Galicia 51% of the least-income contributors were 12%. Today they're paying 9.5%. And En Marea's rate was higher. Do you remember, Mr. Sánchez? "Well, I don't know if you were here when the AGE were here." He's happy now because Anova's men revalided him there. I don't know if you were with AGE or not. But their predecessors wanted to put in the budget amendments a higher rate to those who earned the least. However, we have risen to those who earn more than 100,000 euros, Mrs Porritt — specifically 0.2% of the highest income. With the left they paid 19.8%, and we raise it to 20.4%. I think it's not hard to see that 20.4% is more than 19.8%. It is clear, therefore, that the People's Party has increased its rate to the rich and has lowered its rate to the poor. So, I think that speech that you have, that mantra, they could already leave because the figures are there, and the data aren't opinable, they're what they are. Apart from that, all deductions are social and affect those who have less income. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For Mrs. Porritt, it's important to return the taxes to the poor and raise them to the rich. You weren't here when you made these discounts but you can check that I'm not lying. Actually, our tax models, Mrs. Porritt, are different, and I just explained it. No one understands that tax cuts and tax benefits are criticized. The citizenry already knows that raising taxes is left-handed and lower-taxing is the People's Party. The last example we have seen these days with the intervention of the Socialist Government in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, in which, with a 40-year inheritance of socialist government that leaves the autonomous community Andalusia as a herial, now the People's Party in Coalition is lowering taxes. But, no, no, you can't lower the taxes!, you have to raise them!, and how you get them down because we intervened by the autonomous community. And socialist Sánchez and company are going to raise taxes in Andalusia because they can't get down, when this autonomous community is showing that it's growing, that it's generating jobs, that it's building trust. That's what the Socialist Party can't bear. Well, I don't have much time, and I'm not going to repeat everything I said in the Commission about amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u56	Yes, we have already expressed ourselves in the Commission, and also in the Socialist Party, those in the Left Joint Group and those in the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u58	I just ended up saying it's the budgets of stability, growth and job creation, Mrs. Porritt, those of a government committed to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u60	And so they show the Greeks and the Greeks, every time they go to the polls, which is the model they want: that of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u61	Thank you very much. We move on to the following legislative text. Ditame debate and vote, delivered by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the draft law regulating the ludicrous use of the thermal waters of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u62	Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, from 1 to 7; to 3 to 5, from 7 to 11, from 13 to 17, from 20 to 23, from 25 to 31, to 33, from 35 to 39, to 41, to 46, to 48, from 51 to 57 and from 59 to 66; by the Joint Left Group, from 1 to 23, from 26 to 28 and to 30; and by the Galician Socialists, from 1 to 17, to 20, to 21, from 23 to 26, from 29 to 32, from 34 to 38, to 40, and from 46 to 70. For the presentation of the dictatorship, the Vice-President of Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The draft law regulating the playful use of Galician thermal waters was entered into the Register of the Galician Parliament on August 7, 2019, with settlement number 53521. The Presidency of Parliament, by Resolution of 29 August 2019, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament No. 522, dated 30 August 2019. Even so, listening to the spokesperson's board, he agreed to be dealt with by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism. Three amendments were tabled to the whole return, by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. These amendments were rejected at the plenary meeting on 22 October 2019. 180 amendments were tabled by the articulated: 7 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, 68 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 30 of the Left Joint Group Parliamentary Group, 70 of the Galician Socialist Group and 5 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. These amendments were qualified by the Commission Bureau on 22 October 2019. For its part, the Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Ms. Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández (title) and Mr. Moisés Rodríguez Pérez (supplent); Ms. Luca Chao Pérez (supplent); Ms. Begoña Matilde Rodríguez Rumbo (title) and Mr. José Manuel Pérez Seco (supplent); Ms. Jose Luís Bará Torres (supplent); Ms. María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda (title) and Ms. Luca Chao Pérez (supplent); Ms. David Rodríguez Estévez (supplent). The meeting was held on 6 November 2019, convened and chaired by Mrs Romero Fernández, Chairman of Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, and with the assistance of the rapporteurs. At the following meetings we studied the whole of this bill, as well as the amendments to the articulate presented, in search of the approximation of the different positions. Finally, at the last meeting, which took place on 3 December 2019, the Presidency issued its report. Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, at its meeting on 11 December 2019, adopted its opinion, with seven votes in favour and five abstentions, incorporating a total of 38 amendments to the draft law; in particular 4 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, 3 of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group — one of them negotiated —, 12 of the Galician Socialist Group — three of them dealt with — and 19 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group — three of them negotiated. Following the withdrawal of an amendment from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, the remaining amendments rejected are retained for discussion by this plenary. Of the Joint Parliamentary Group there are 7; of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 49; of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group, 27; and of the Galician Socialist Group, 58. Finally, it follows that the draft law regulating the fungal use of Galician thermal water consists, in addition to an exhibition of motifs, of 4 titles developed in 40 articles. Title I sets out general provisions, the object of the law, its purposes and certain definitions for the purposes of this law. Title II is dedicated to the legal regime of the playful use of thermal waters. Title III deals with the priority and compatibility between therapeutic and ludic uses of thermal waters and Title IV on the inspection and sanction scheme. On the other hand, its final part is incorporated by three additional provisions and five last layouts. The latter establishes the entry into force of this law, if any, at 30 natural days since its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the draft law regulating the playful use of the thermal waters of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. We turn around the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u65	Good afternoon again. I'm going to try to be as concise as possible, because, really, our work in the Phoenicia of this law has focused on the most worrying matters of it, according to our criteria. I've already commented when the procedure of this law was introduced that we considered it appropriate to differentiate the therapeutic uses of the spas from the recreational uses, but we do not agree with the way it was done. We believe that what is enshrined in this law is an attempt to privatize a public asset again such as thermal waters and the annulment of municipal powers to develop or exercise control over the suitability of initiatives that are intended to be carried out in their territory. I mean, ludicrous and thermal water for those who can afford it. We agree absolutely to give legal security to private initiatives already installed or to those that can be incorporated and that they want to develop again, but not free bar, and much less privileges and covert privatization. We believe that everything we stand for in our amendments is compatible with this legal security and with this possibility of developing a powerful sector that could be, indeed, much more important in the economy, especially in areas in need of economic employment development in an important way. The first point underlying all our amendments is to make it clear that the thermal waters are a public good, as it is obvious, and that is why we have to guarantee access to their uses and benefits to the entire population, regardless of their economic situation. The second point I leave with our amendments is the possibility of developing public equipment. And there we made an amendment to make it clear that in the case of public lands or in those where there is no record of ownership, the municipalities may request the enabling title to develop public spaces of direct management by the municipality itself. Not to mention it in the law may make it possible to hinder such initiatives. Because, in addition, it is already shown that this type of facility does not compete with other facilities that can be established at a commercial level. We also need to focus more on sustainability and defence of heritage, not just on tourist values. Sustainability and defence of heritage are in themselves one of the values most appreciated by people who want to enjoy this kind of establishment. Improve the health assurances of these establishments, and that do not end up being hotels with heated pools. This would go against the quality of the offer and the prestige it deserves our unique thermal capacity. Do not limit the use of play in perimeters for the protection of bathing establishments, to prevent monopolistic situations in many municipalities. I mean, when I read this article of the law, I didn't understand it. I understand that the sustainability of the aquifer is protected, but prevents some kind of installation from being established in the protective perimeters, especially of a public nature, if the aquifer is sufficient and it can be shown technically that it can supply the two installations, it seems to us impossible. And I say, in any case — explicitly in an amendment — that they will be exempt from all kinds of limitations, except for insumable aquifer effects, public actions carried out by the municipalities to ensure that a public good can be enjoyed throughout citizenship. And then one of the amendments is to increase municipal competences in the development and implementation of this law. Since it is necessary for municipal reports, which are not listed, to qualify for the socio-laboral impact report submitted by the company that intends to host the concession, it will indicate whether it is appropriate for a true socio-economic vertebration of the municipality. This does not have to be a trap, nor can it be understood as a trap, no; this is a way of qualifying projects with respect to others, and it is a unique opportunity to develop an activity that would clearly strengthen Galicia as a power in thermal tourism in Spain and, as it has already been shown, the second in Europe. Therefore, it is necessary to place the municipalities on the vertebrate axis of it, because they are the ones who best know the needs of their municipalities and their possibilities and economic and social needs. Therefore, in order to achieve greater social, economic, business and tourism development, it is essential that they participate in the decision-making that is their responsibility for being the future of large, medium-sized or small-scale facilities, decisive in the development of the aforementioned municipalities, as seen in other thermal municipalities. Then we also miss the law the promotion of local economy and pemes and cooperatives. It should have the law an economic memory, a commitment by the Galician Law Development Board that commits to developing incentives for the fair development of this law and prevents them from accessing only these large corporate initiatives. The most logical and sustainable quality employment is the initiatives developed from the territory itself. But it is clear that in many cases the possible cooperatives, the possible working societies that were generated in the municipalities with thermal possibilities, do not have the financial capacity, the capacity of guarantees, etc., that can have large hotel corporations or other types. Well, then the Galician Union should ensure that there was a possibility that local initiatives could also participate in the development of this business. That would also make the exploitation of this good more socially cross-sectional, which, as I said from the beginning, is a public good. It does not seem reasonable to us that the period of validity of the enabling title to a maximum of 50 years. This type of fifty-seventy-five-year deadlines are provided for large infrastructures such as large hydraulic power plants and other concessional infrastructures requiring massive investments. Investment is important here, but obviously it doesn't take 50 years to provide a depreciation guarantee. That's why we think it would be more reasonable to establish a maximum period of 30 years extending, i.e., if the exploitation really does, the socio-economic impact committed to the council if it is met, there would be no problem being able to expand it, but we think it doesn't make sense to take it up to 50 years. And then one thing we couldn't believe when we read the law is the impossibility of uses compatible with different operators in the same area. We don't understand that you don't accept this amendment, because really this is... people who already have a license are to give you the guarantee of... i.e. privatizing the territory throughout their scope of incidence. That's why we think we need to modify the article that determines that both bathing uses and playful uses can be compatible, provided there are the declarations necessary for both uses. You also say that they could be compatible, as long as the headline is the same. It's just that this is... when I read it I couldn't believe it. So, if the headline is the same, you can do it; if the headline is not the same or is a municipality, you can't do it. But isn't the problem the viability and sustainability of the aquifer? What difference is there in the aquifer if what develops the playful use next to a spa is the owner of the spa, or is it another person, or is it a council or a public administration? This, I, in fact, imagine it's legal to put this on, because I imagine that the jurists of the Galician Union would analyze this article, but we think it's a restriction of competition from a private point of view and a limitation of access to a public good by the absolutely insumable public institutions. That is why we thought it was one of the most serious issues and, in addition, one of the ones who makes it clear that, of course, this article has not been drafted by the Members of the People's Party. Because I, the truth is, when I read it, I didn't understand that a specific article of law could directly benefit individuals and companies, with names and names. I think it's totally unheard of. I already say it's as if the state or board of Galicia suddenly said: the only thing that can develop wind farms throughout the province of Coruña is Naturgy, by the concept that it was, with names and surnames, because it already has one, and as it already has no other can be developed around it. It's really inscrutable and I hope you can at least accept this amendment. Although — I say — we have not been very prolific in developing amendments, we do not want to interfere with the development of the law, which we consider necessary, but there are elements that cannot be given up. Make it clear that thermal waters are public and that uses of that public good cannot be limited when possible, when compatible. A little more to say. We have been concise in drafting amendments, very concrete and in the aspects that seem to us to be truly inescapable from a point of view of the consideration of a public good for the use of citizenship. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u67	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. I wanted to start by recalling as a precedent that since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we initially opposed this bill. In fact, as mentioned in the intervention of the Commission secretary, we tabled an amendment to the whole moment, of return, because we understood that this project was not up to the circumstances, nor did it solve the existing problems, nor did it lay the foundations for developing all the challenges of the future that the sector has at the table at this time, based on three fundamental issues, which for us were not properly included in the law, such as territorial balance, social justice and socio-economic development. We have not succeeded as it has already been recorded in that process of return. And once again, one among so many in the last decade, we saw how the People's Party preferred to follow its road map, when we insisted from the opposition groups that it was better to sit down and talk and do this procedure differently. In any case, we understood that at that time it was mainly due to the two needs of the People's Party: on the one hand, to conceal the breaches of its own road map, for it must be remembered that this law was already a promise of the beginning of 2017, and on the other hand, the lack of model project that exists for thermal development. From then on it was based on more sun supply and more elucupations than studies and reality and a real consensus with the municipalities, with the sector and a long et cetera. And as a symptomatic thing, for example, we saw that this project was developed without an evaluation of what was the thermal tourism plan, which, by the way, already contemplated the actual review of the legislative framework by 2015. Surely, if we don't have an evaluation of these results, there aren't too many results to assume. In any case, we warned of all these circumstances because we understood that we were at risk that this project would add more regulatory uncertainties and that it could distort our thermal map and its idiosyncrasy, which has been built with so much effort, both from both the public and the private sector. We understood, then, that there were two possibilities in front of a necessity, because we do not deny that there is a need to regulate a type of thermal uses, which were actually orphaned in the current regulatory framework. But in any case, it seemed to us that this could well be resolved by a reform of the Law on Bathing or by making an ambitious new law, and taking advantage of to legislate and to bet on other matters that must be on top of the table. The fact is that the People's Party gave up both questions and kept this bill, which for us was a third way so mediocre, which was to be a reflection of both the Law of Whalers and the Law of Mines, and a sale of issues that, in some cases, brought us more risks than certainty. In any case, although we would have liked the process and the starting point to be others, we tried, through our 60-eight-amed battery, to develop approaches in two ways: On the one hand, many of them referred to the remaining differences we have from the Nationalist Block of Galicia regarding the thermal model that we must develop. So, we insisted, for example, on its social function, and we pretended also in thermalism as a public good, in its playful aspect, but always in harmony with its restorative character; we bet on the public participation of the administrations — the municipalities, yes, but also of Galician Union itself — as a tractor of our economy and we also waged for democratization in access. We're also adding another block of amendments, not so much from a political background, but from a model difference, which is logical that the People's Party would not want to come in and discuss in too much detail and approve. But if we add another battery of amendments — so to speak — more rudimentary or more doing that than when we watch movies about tragedies and major accidents is called "damage control." They were amended, within this framework which we do not like, to avoid certain risks that we have seen, to remedy some absences of the 1995 regulatory framework and the 2008 Mines Act itself, and thus to avoid, for example, manifest inequalities in the different types of use, as well as avoiding certain issues that we thought might be at risk of health, with regard to the environment, with regard to the model of thermalism itself. And the truth is, finally, of these sixty-eight, sixteen were taken into consideration and two were traded. Given that today we've had two other laws in which we had zero and zero, I was joking when we had the debate in committee that almost seemed to have touched our lottery. But, in any case, it is not that we think of it that way, but that, really, what we conclude is that so much acceptance of this volume of amendments is that we were right in two aspects that we warned: On the one hand, that this law did not come up with proper reflection, it did not arrive with proper improvement, and therefore it was chaotic from the point of view of the formal organization and even on some issues of expression, which there were concepts that were not in line with the law of 1995 and the Mines Law, and a long et cetera. And, therefore, we understand that in a second aspect too, it gives us the reason that the procedure was not the most appropriate one. I myself in the whole debate had the example of the processing of the Greek Mines Act, the first autonomous law in this regard, which had more than six months of Phoenicia and had an important prior consultation with the sector and with experts. In any case, we are trying these kinds of amendments, within which it is not our ideal model, to come up with positive issues for the sector. It doesn't seem enough to us, but I would like to highlight some of the issues that have been raised in the text, not without thanking also all the people who have helped us on this path and also the Whalnearians Association, which has moved us several approaches. Within the amendments that have been accepted, there are some who, as I said, seem to us to seek to increase legal security, such as 6 and 12 by harmonizing with the bathing law, or 18 and 24, adding the requirement of the restoration plan when requesting the closure plan. This might seem to be an obvious matter, but given the precedents that we've been accustomed to the General Directorate of the People's Party's Government of Mines, how many more precautions are placed in the legal text will be better. There is some other amendment, such as the 19th, which extended the public exposure period from twenty to thirty working days, although we would like there to be other transparency measures, because access as requested in our amendments to projects is not facilitated. Amendment 32, for example, provides the right of the incumbents to request from the bodies of the relevant councils observance or action in the face of facts which may be understood to be at the expense of quality and use. Amendment 40, which provides working conditions. Or Amendment No 42, which improves the clarity of consumer services. Or 44 and 47, which, for example, do not have a civil liability insurance or the financial security required is a very serious penalty, not just serious as originally envisaged. I also think it is necessary to mention the collective effort that has been made within the Phoenician Republic. And thanks also to the work of the lawyer of our commission on the paragraph of the infringements, which is true that it has evolved in the regulatory framework since the law itself of 1995, and that it has been necessary to adapt and accompany. These questions for us are small steps ahead, which we do not want to demean, but the truth is, by placing them on the balance, we fear that it is not enough for this law to pass the same thing as we were commenting on a few minutes ago in another debate with the Heritage Law, that nothing else would be approved within a few months was already being changed in the Accompaniment Law. We don't know if this legal text will have the same luck, but we understand, of course, that it doesn't come out reinforced enough so that it won't. This procedure has also made clear to us the inconsistencies of the People's Party itself, because, for example, they have accepted an amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego to the object of this law, precisely to meet the need for coexistence, coexistence and balance with the therapeutic aspect and with the heritage and cultural valorization of thermalism — something that seems to us all to agree on — but then concrete issues regarding the property protection that is placed on the table are voted against. It also renounces having a specific heritage recovery plan, having in our country examples, such as the degradation of Mondariz, which are not acceptable. They are also incorporated into article 2, for example, the industrial use of thermal uses, but they appear as a mere anecdote. At least the industrial aspect was more fortunate than the therapist, who, we insist, is an incongruence that is not collected within the scope of the law. In any case, I wanted to pretend now on matters that are not settled. From our point of view, this bill continues to get sick from a very partial perspective, it is very focused only on the play and offers a risk of distortion of what our thermal map is, and we are also concerned, when we hear about the group that supports the Government, that obsession as a culture of tourism. And we insist again: Galicia is tourism, thermalism is tourism, but both Galicia and the thermalism itself are much more than tourism, and we cannot just dedicate ourselves to that sector. We also insist on maintaining demagogy with economic development. It says that this law will favour economic development, especially within our country, but once again there are no objective measurers, it will refuse to do any kind of monitoring that will allow it to object whether it really works in socio-economic terms or not, and it will refuse to approve possibilities for this to be controlled by the participation of the sector, of the ESC itself, which we already know gives the People's Party allergy, and also with its own councils. It also seems to us that the social function of thermalism is once again obvious. We insist that thermalism is a cultural habit and that we are also taking advantage of the valorization of this most popular aspect. We insist on the issue of heritage, we refuse to demand the report of the competent council, also to develop a special conservation plan. With regard to the industrial aspect, without leading it to debate such aspects as energy, it is also surprising that there are Greek universities, there is a Water Campus, there is a Hydrology Chair, because it is not betted, for example, by the way of industrialization of cosmetics, by the way of other possibilities that have been studied in our country. For us too it is very important and very negative that once again we have renounced public participation We know that the Government group is allergic to this expression, but we understand that water and thermal water are public goods and therefore public administrations cannot neglect to perform a screening function. That doesn't mean the private company's going out. But we also understand that in this context already at the beginning of a new economic recession it is illusory and totally unrealistic to aspire that absolutely all planning will be promoted from the private level. It's also giving up that there may be mixed models. And even more so when we all have in our heads models of that kind that work, that work very well and that they have created a culture about them that we should not let go. We also understand that there are unforgivable absences in this bill. It's a new missed opportunity to talk about the cold waters that have mineral medicinal properties, and also bet on connecting this aspect to the rest of the thermalism. We've missed another opportunity to value something of our own, like water and sources of popular use. We in our amendments propose, for example, the creation of a register, and something as elementary as this is because it is discarded. And we understand that there are also serious issues that lie on the table. For us there is a debate, for example, that we refuse to give up again, which is competition over water. We have in our country, especially in some province like Ourense, mostly basins belonging to the central government, the management of our rivers 500 kilometers away. And we know that in everyday reality this has a lot of problems: it has problems detecting thermally exploitable sites, it has problems managing permits, it has many problems giving up. In the debate that we had in the Commission, some groups said that the Government of the People's Party was too much involved in competences that swirled with the complex legislation of mines, with the complex legislation of water and with many powers that are not clarified. We appeal precisely to the contrary, and we hope that with the passage of time you will join us to question that frame more, because it is really a difficulty that we can do as if it does not exist, but that it is there, it is in the day to day and it is not listened to or thought out. We also find it worrying that this law is born orphan of something fundamental, which is budgeting. We have recently approved the budgets of the Galician Union, which do not introduce a single euro for the development of this law. His captive economic memory said he didn't need a single public euro to develop. We, of course, believe that free and air things do not develop and that at this time economic momentum would be needed by the administration itself. Finally — I conclude — there is a question that concerns us by balancing the issues that are incorporated into this law: that we can maintain a certain confusion between the play and the thermal aspect, which we understand are co-existing, co-existing issues, which are true that there is some of the uses of our country that are orphaned by a more specific framework, which is needed. But we are concerned that this law will put more uncertainty than certainty. These are the reasons why we are not completely satisfied with the outcome that has reached this point of debate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Joint Left Group has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u69	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, with regard to this law, first of all, to say that from the Joint Left Group we have made an amendment for the whole return. But, however, we tried to involve ourselves in what is the improvement in the regulation by making partial amendments, which we had already hoped had practically no success, because almost all were rejected, as it was to be expected. Obviously, we do not share at all his political stance, which is evident already in the explanatory statement of this bill. You highlight the thermocity as a property, and we believe that we must essentially defend public use. Yes, it plays a fundamental role in the tourism industry, but the approach is absolutely diametrically opposite. You know, or should know, that surface continental waters as much as renewable groundwater constitute a unitary resource subordinate to the general interest, which is part of the state public domain. We will make nine considerations, because the considerations for the often have already been made in Commission 6 almost article by article. Now we'll take general consideration, but we'll consider it very important. In addition, we will seek to provide an argumentary answer to his own account, to his own -- let's say -- advertising lines why this law was necessary. You speak of pioneering law; we are a group that we are saying roundly that this law is unnecessary. Why? We really believe that there should be a general law of mineral and thermal waters and their uses. We believe this, so we consider it unnecessary. Or at the very least to reform Law 5/1995, since in this law what has been done was to facilitate de facto privatization of thermal waters. From our point of view, there is a serious error in the re-proposing of this law. I also want to tell you to support our argument that the concept of thermal water is already defined, is defined in Article 2(c) of Law 5/1995, of Galician spas. Speaking of what is defined or not, what is not defined is the concept of thermal well, the concept of thermal springs and springs of traditional use. That's how we think there would be elements like The Burgas, The Painter or Prayer, and that's because it's not defined. The experts. We also talk to the Balnearios Association, we talk to experts, we talk to the people of the Water Campus, we talk to physicists, we talk to the geologists. It's our order. Since they like to talk so much about rigour, we really try to be strict. By the way, a parenthesis: in the document that goes through the claims of the groups we've already increased a dioptria that we're myopts, and we're going to pass the bill to them, because the letter is smaller than the minimum there is. I -- I swear to you -- I had to use magnifying glass, I didn't see it with glasses, huh! It's true, and for something it will be. They weren't very interested in us reading easily. I wasn't in PDF, I was in paper. Well, experts, ladies and gentlemen, consider it essential that these be considered, that there is no legislative limbo for these thermal elements. Another argument that you argue is that it's a very demanding law. And we say, "Who? Well, it can be very demanded by the business sector, and this is neither bad nor good, it can be legitimate; yes, it is legitimate. But when they say about the social sector, we say repeatedly: not so. Why? Because if there is great protection for tourism companies, but what is the social benefit of the population? Ourense, second thermal capital after Budapest. The temperature level of Ourense waters in many places exceeds sixty centigrade degrees; in others, forty percent peaks. It's second after Budapest. And where's Ourense? A city that is very potent, which lives very well, is a city that is actually living the most absolute evil of all Galicia, being a very rich power at the thermal level. That's why we asked how it's possible. Because we also want to know our reports, we ask where are the reports that guarantee the economic and social development of the population where these waters flow. How is it possible that relevant information is not required on the impact on the economy, on employability, on the tourist development of the place where a thermal exploitation project is established? He doesn't show up. When we say -- why not? -- that this really looks at citizenship. There's a suggestion that it's not ours, but that we give speaker, because that's what we have to do, it's our order. And when a plan is put forward that fosters cooperativeism, in a sustainable way, and that small businesses can participate in the business fabric associated with thermal water, the answer that they give us is that this is not the object. Of course not, the object is water. This demand is not in the title first, it is in the third title. And in the same way as large companies, related companies or companies already installed, which are the real recipients of the protection and legal basis of this law, because it can also be compatible with the use. It's in compatibility, but you tell us it's not inside the object. Of course not! Assemade, they don't explain why no municipal direct management areas are foreseen. Why not? And they told us — the answer is incredible, incredible and a bit daring — we do not want to invade the competences of the municipalities. We're not talking about the invasion of competences, we're talking about the management of municipalities, which you leave out of this. Because municipalities like Ourense's, where water flows that can be used, have a lot to say. There was a real lack of participation of many municipalities, not only of Ourense, but also of Cuntis and others. The constellations were very absent in the preparation of the project and the project. Not so other companies concerned, possibly — as we have already said — with all legitimacy, to profit from public water. Well, let's talk after the object. The object is not, ladies and gentlemen, clearly reached in the development of the articles of this law. We insist on a mistake, an error that we too recognize, because they have made us see it, and we should probably explain it better: fun use is the use of establishments, not the use of water, because the use of water cannot be distinguished from the playful use of therapeutic use. What does it mean that use is inherent? The thermal waters have -- it's something inherent -- the therapeutic quality. How do you distinguish these uses? It's a brutal mistake. "Intrinsic" really means essential, permanent, which is part of its nature, which does not depend on something external. I don't know if it's understood that way. Maybe we explain it wrong, but we say it five times publicly, in committee, here, and we repeat it. They speak, please, of playful use, if they want, of establishments, not of thermal waters. The approach is really wrong. That's why when we say it's wrong the title, you say, what nonsense! Of course, we're opposed to the title. Yeah, of course, but arguing. Let's give us arguments that fall down what we're saying; argument with argument. Because we do not consider our work as Members to be monologues, and we believe that dialogue must be brought into dialogue, and dialogue must be based on argument. And when we talk about different models, you defend your own, but you also respect those of the opposition groups, which we have as much right as you do, and we are living forever an insult, which we are not critical of —matically between what is critical and what is insulting — a systematic insult to our well argued proposals. They're talking about regulating different uses. Well, we insist that, as much as they do, the profits are inseparable. The use of play is therapeutic and intrinsic. Does anyone doubt here that thermal water is a therapeutic resource? If anyone hesitates to argue with him. On the other hand, why is it not essential, why is this law not necessary? Spas and other types of similar centers are already legislate and working. There is no legal vacuum as the People's Party says. You claim that we confuse what is public domain... well, tell us, please, how is it possible that you will be granted a benefit to mere private owners and an authorization for use and exclusive right of use? What is your political priority? It's only to encourage businesses that are affected by the general interest. Well, the truth is it looks like it does. Madam PP, we know what the public use of public goods can be, because water is a public good. So how is it possible, among other things, that they say in their propaganda or in their promotion that they will protect heritage and cultural integrity? How can they say this? They minimize and ignore the broad conception of water use. At no time in the law there is an allusion to heritage, archaeology, history, exchange and benefit for citizenship, for public use of public good, to meet the collective needs of all the foundations of society, not only who has economic resources and who transcends individual interests. It's just, really, the PP has been ruling for a long time, but at the time of the Romans, which I know, the PP didn't exist, and the thermos already existed. Now, only since the absence of a global vision of the heritage is understood, for example, that it is ordered to cover a jewel of origin of our spas as is the sauna of the Iron Age in San Cibrao, in the castle of Atalaia, in the Town Hall of Cervo. From our point of view, this is a real attack. They also talk about compatibility in the instruction. And in order to create a new station, they require a lot of reports, reports from different councils, advice with various competences. All right, we can understand, there may be a lot of cross-section. In the authorisation procedures this is requested for new play establishments, but when two activities have to be compatible it is not required, it is not specified. This is a paradox, and let us be perplexed too. Finally, a desirable question would be to regulate concepts from the basic procedures. I want to take advantage of it, and I'll follow up on the replica, to talk about the subject of perimeter protection. Please, the protective perimeters, ladies and gentlemen, are designed for the protection of aquifers, not for the protection of spas. They're setting up and integrating a figure that does not exist in the current legislation. The perimeters are aquifer protection, not spas. This can tell you anyone, it's a real disincentive. When they talk of consent in processing, it's a lie; it's made only with a few parts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u71	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry you can't find Mrs. Paula Prado right now, but then you can move my message. Oh, come there, okay, for perfect. Mrs. Paula Prado, I wanted to make a little reference to the reading of the plenary, the one you referred to, in which I, indeed, told Mrs. Sandra Vázquez that the notes that were passed to her were not correct. [[Laughter]] And you, Mrs. Paula Prado, from that place hid me from "machist." Yes, you can watch the video. And that's exactly why I say in my words that I don't agree to be called... yes, look at the video. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From that bench you called me "machista." [[Applause]] In my speech that day, and as you continued to read in that Journal of Sessions, I clearly explained that I never referred to the discourse, I referred to the data, because I understand that the data to you probably passes them to the Council of Galicia or feeds on other sources, as we do. But I did not doubt at any time that no one had given the speech to any Member of this House and to any Member of this House. Therefore, Mrs. Paula Prado, your feminism is also of hojalat; what applies to others must also apply to you. Well, today we're in the middle of the adoption of the Law on the fungus use of thermal waters. Galicia is one of the richest European regions in mineral and thermal waters, the leading community in Spain as well as thermal supply. In Galicia we have 21 spas, with more than 3,000 hotel squares, which is about 20% of national establishments; it receives about 150,000 users annually; and according to the Ministry's data, in 2017 — which is the latest published data — Galicia, in the bathing sector, employs about 800 people, of whom 71.5 % are women. Most of these 300 springs of mineral-medicine waters in Galicia are thermal waters, and thermal waters are an increasingly demanding natural resource from various aspects: therapy, tourism, culture, heritage and industrial. Since then, the thermal waters pose an opportunity for local development that generates investment and employment in the areas where they are found, and highlights their enclave in rural Galicia. The Socialists fully agree with the statement made by the president of the Galician Union that the term “thermalism” is strategic for Galicia. However, in this bill, thermalism is not treated as a strategic sector. The Socialists have tabled 70 amendments to the articulation of this bill, of which only 9 have been accepted - i.e. 13% of those presented by our group - and 3 have been dealt with, which are actually also dealt with with with other groups and remain with a text proposed by the lawyer of the commission responsible for drafting the presentation. So these are transactions more than any drafting and clarification of the legislative text. Of the 180 amendments tabled by the four opposition groups, 28 were accepted - i.e. 15.5% of the total amendments tabled - and 7 were dealt with; one more shows of that political arrogance and of that lack of dialogue of the People's Party which was already mentioned today in the morning in the adoption of both the autonomous community's budgets and the Law on Administrative and Tax Measures. By the way, in the amendments accepted most of you don't raise any essential questions beyond any nuances. It seems hard to understand that only 28 amendments may be in place to improve this legislative text. The amendments tabled by this parliamentary group were the result of the meetings held with the actors involved in the regulation of this law: with the sector, with the municipalities and with experts. [[Murmurs.]] As for the 70 allegations made by our parliamentary group, we have to say that Article 1 in the new wording which was agreed on in the report of the motion and in which an amendment submitted by the BNG is accepted, in which it says textually: "harmony with therapeutic use and with heritage and cultural valorization", reaffirms the idea argued by the socialists that a new law should not be passed, but the correct one would be an integral amendment to Law 5/1995, which is currently in place. In this way, we would draw up a single normative text adapted to the new reality of the 21st century mineral and thermal waters that contemplates the different uses of mineral and thermal waters and that unites the criteria, thus providing the rule of greater legal certainty; a single text that would conform to the guidelines of normative techniques adopted by the Council of Galicia, avoiding the regulatory dispersion that complicates the planning and hinders the knowledge and location of applicable legislation. You reject our first amendment, an amendment that literally says, "The thermal waters, like minerals and springs, constitute a declared resource of public utility that is part of the hydraulic public domain." In other words, the People's Party refuses to consider as a basic principle that all water is a public asset; for, therefore, mineral and thermal waters are also sound. And he rejects the thermal and mineral waters in accordance with the regulations of the Water Law. In this same sense there are many of our amendments because we socialists believe it is a serious mistake that it is the Mines Law that regulates these waters and that it should be those who have powers in hydraulic matters. So this would be a good opportunity to correct this mistake, either with the approval of this law or — as the Socialists propose — with the modification of the existing law. Article 132.2 of the Spanish Constitution determines that water, regardless of its classification and typology, is an integrated natural resource in the natural public domain. And in the same sense, we have legislation sufficient to support this statement, as may be the ruling of the Constitutional Court 227/1988, or the Water Framework Directive, Directive 2000 of Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000. Or Article 1.3 of the Recast Text of the Water Act of 2000, which does not give rise to doubts, and which literally says: "Superficial continental waters, as well as renewable groundwaters, all integrated into the hydrological cycle, constitute a unitary resource subordinate to the general interest that is part of the state's public domain as a hydraulic public domain." So mineral and thermal waters are water and have to be treated as a resource subordinate to the general interest. All waters in Spain and all minerals are public, except paradoxically, mineral waters and thermal waters; therefore, a regulatory change must be addressed, they must be treated within the legal regime of the waters and all of them must be declared public. In the other amendment presented by the Socialists to article 2, which speaks of the purposes of the law and which was also rejected by the People's Party, we said: "To put in tourist value the playful use of thermal waters, structuring supply, resources and services through the realization of a plan and measures that potentiate fate to Galicia." With this amendment we try to give more content to the law so that all the actors involved work together on the use of an important tourist resource, but that it is structured through a plan with concrete measures that favor the realization of a coordinated and controlled offer. In Article 5 — which was also rejected by the People's Party — which refers to the procedure for the declaration of thermal waters suitable for fun use, the Socialists believe that it is not enough for a preliminary report from the competent health council. So we propose that this should be binding, and in addition to that the parameters should be defined previously, as well as that permanent control and verification processes should be established. These are amendments which, as I say, have also been rejected by the People's Party. Article 7, referring to the lucid use of bathing protection perimeters, paragraph 1, states that persons holding authorisations or concessions for therapeutic uses in bathing establishments will be entitled... and the Socialists proposed an amendment — which was also rejected by the People's Party — which was established that they would be entitled in accordance with the criteria laid down and verified by the Administration in the use of hot water. That punctuation that seems very important to us was also rejected by the People's Party. And in point 2, when it says that the person holding the authorization or concession will be given an audience to show, we socialists, we tabled an amendment because it seems to us that it cannot be just a demonstration, but that it must be accredited by a technical report if the work or activities involving the so-called playful use prejudice or not the normal use of the water subject of authorization or concession granted for therapeutic uses in bathing establishments. As I say, these amendments have also been rejected. In Article 8, the Socialists propose to add a number of specifications which should be contained in the general use project subscribed by a competent technician, as well as the specifications that should be in the study justifying the need for a protective perimeter. We also request a new paragraph with the execution calendar and budget of investments. These are amendments that would add legal certainty to this legislative text. We also consider it important that provision should be made for the number and characteristics of the proposed staff, looking at the skills and knowledge needed to give a proper development of the technical functions or tasks to be developed and which are regulated by the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Article 16 — which has also been rejected in time of validity and extension of the enabling title — in our amendment it was proposed that any exploitation of the waters covered by this law which did not obtain the necessary concession or authorisation, if this is the case, should be considered illegal and that the competent body ordered the immediate paralysis of it. But this amendment has also been rejected. In Article 18 on the expiry of the enabling title, the Socialists proposed that in paragraphs (b) (d) and (h) a report of the competent health adviser should be required, and that this report should be binding. They are very important reports for the following conditions: the loss of the thermal condition of the water subject of use, the decrease in the flow of the aquifer that prevents its exploitation in the conditions set out in the title of use, the irreversible contamination of the aquifer, or the failure to comply with the conditions imposed on the authorisation or concession whose non-compliance is expressly sanctioned by expiry. We therefore believe that in order to determine these types of issues, a report by the competent health counsellor is binding. In Article 20, amendments tell us about the cases in which the technical characteristics of the proposed amendment entail a substantial change in the initial use authorized or granted, and the Socialists submit an amendment not to allow that substantial change to a subjective determination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u75	So what we meant was that it was regulated and understood when the change was more than 10% of the use in the authorized amount or object of the concession. This amendment has also been rejected. Since I have a second shift, I'll continue with my exhibition. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon also to the representatives of the industry that accompany us and the representatives of the mining chamber. It's a pleasure to always count on their presence in these plenary sessions when they deal with matters that affect them. We are at the last step in the parliamentary process of a pioneering bill in the Spanish State; pioneering because it is the first autonomous community that regulates the use of thermal waters other than therapeutics, responding to an existing reality — no one doubt — and to a demand for today's society. Do you want to know who today's society is? Users, industry, tourism, tourists. Before talking about amendments and after listening to them both in the debate as a whole and in committee, we need to clarify three basic issues that cross-sectionally dismantle their arguments and explain why most of their amendments are unacceptable. First of all, what is meant by this law, the spirit of the law, the reason why this law is born, which you all intend to change. Secondly, the legal regime of the thermal waters, which this law neither intends nor can change. And thirdly, the existing regulation of the protective perimeters, which they do not know or, worse, are willing to deliberately fail. What this law aims to do is to respond to a reality different from the spa; a reality that has emerged in recent years consistent with the use of thermal water exclusively — and I repeat, exclusively — for fun and leisure purposes, without such use pursuing preventive and/or therapeutic activity. That's why there was no reform or a new law on mineral water, thermal and water from Galician spas. On the other hand, this law has allowed to develop the sector without at any time showing that it is now obsolete, so it has chosen to draw up a complementary law to Law 5/1995. This law, therefore, is born to cover an existing legal vacuum that will allow you to boost the growth of the thermal sector in an orderly manner, while it will give confidence and security to both installations and users. And he does it with a very clear approach, ladies and gentlemen: regulates the playful use of thermal water without prejudging its therapeutic use, without prejudging — let's be clear — therapeutic use and always boasting about the therapeutic use of any conflict between ludic use and therapeutic use. This is what the law, ladies and gentlemen, and that is our political position: to regulate the use of thermal waters other than the therapeutic, which is actually being produced and which currently lacks regulation and is therefore lacking quality assurances. Replying to Mrs Cuña, who was asking me, according to the Mines Act, the thermal waters can only have one purpose, which is the therapeutic, and this law is allowing to extend the use of these waters to another use as is the playful, which without this law could not be given, even if it is being given; so we speak of legal void and of allegentiality. With regard to the determination of the legal regime of mineral and thermal waters, there is a coexistence of the state's water and mine legislation. This coexistence is determined by a clear criterion, which is the exclusion of thermal and mineral waters from the scope of sectoral water legislation. The recast text of the Water Act of 2001 determines that water is in public domain, as you have read. But at the same time, the recast text itself, in its article 2, excludes mineral and thermal waters from its objective scope of application, requiring such waters to be regulated by their specific legislation. They don't stay in article 1 of the law, they keep reading. So I'm not as public as the rest of the water. I'm not a public domain. The recast text of the Water Law applies to mineral, thermal and source water only for the purposes of its protection, but not its legal regime. The thermal waters are regulated in the specific area of the State Mines Law, which, in Article 2.2, excludes them from being a public domain; the State Mines Act 1973 excludes the thermal waters from being a public ownership. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, both the sectoral standards of water and the sectoral regulations of mines determine that the thermal waters are not in the public domain, they are of public utility for the mere fact that they are thermal, but they are not a public good. If you take part in this false premise and water is public, the rest of your arguments, gentlemen, are invalid. As far as the protective perimeters are concerned, they are always designed for the conservation of aquifers, not the spas, Mrs Cuña. The perimeter that you consider essential... of course, that's why, but I'm going to explain to you where you're confused. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They always look for the conservation of aquifers, not the spas. The perimeter which is considered essential for the protection of the catch integrity is cleared by the procedure of granting authorization or granting of use of thermal water. The perimeter shall be cleared at the time of granting authorization or granting the use of thermal waters, as regulated in Article 13 of Law 5/2005, of mineral waters. On the other hand, Article 28.1 of the Mines Act provides that the authorization or granting of the use of thermal waters gives its holder the exclusive right to use them, Mr. Casal, and to prevent them from being carried out within the protective perimeter fixed works or activities which may prejudice the normal use of such waters. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the perimeters for the protection of aquifers are already regulated by Law 5/1995 and the State Mines Act. So what does Article 7 of the law that we are discussing regulate? It says the title itself: the playful uses of thermal waters within the perimeter of the protection of bathing establishments. I mean, it's protecting existing protection perimeters, which were already granted at the time of granting permission. Do you understand why we can't accept your amendments to this question? I understand you tell me that I'm talking about propaganda and that you're the one who studied. I'm talking about propaganda, you think, Mrs. Cuña, but I have to say that you've studied a little badly or have some confusion, of course, and I don't want to miss it, but I don't want you to miss me either. As for the amendments, we incorporate and accept all those which with these three premises improve, complement and even correct the text and are in agreement with the regulatory framework: Mines Act and Law 5/1995. So, of the five amendments that our group tabled, we removed one, Amendment 3 to Article 7, which referred to the prohibition of drilling in the protective perimeter. And I take my mistake because I didn't do a good writing and I think it could lead to confusion and even contradicting the regulations of the Mines Act. So, without a problem, we remove the amendment and avoid the problem. However, we have kept the deletion amendment number 2 to this same article, to adjust it precisely to the one set out in the basic regulations, because the use of the thermal waters found in the protective perimeter fixed with the specification that belong to the same aquifer does not find accommodation in Law 22/1973, the Mines Act and Law 5/1995. That's why we suppressed this specification in our Amendment No 1, adding it, and we define "natural emergency," as it appears throughout the whole regulation and we consider it necessary to set a correct definition for the application of the norm. Amendment 4 to Article 9, instruction, is for which the Health Council shall report on its competence, which is the quality of the waters and the health conditions of the installations, and respecting the municipal competences. That is the municipality where the use takes place, which reports on the installations and constructive features of the vessel depending on the technical code of construction. And finally, taking into account that the approach of the law is that the therapeutic use on the use of play prevails, we present Amendment No 5, adding a new point to Article 20, Amendment, authorization and concession, so that in the event that this amendment poses a condition to the spa, which previously did not exist, it is essential to intervene in the procedure for the authorisation of the amendment; and to refuse this amendment if that results in any kind of prejudice to the existing bathing. We have had to reject all those amendments of the opposition groups which do not respect State competence in the area of mineral regime bases bases. - it has had to reject all those amendments of the opposition groups which do not respect State competence in the area of mining regime bases. - it has had to refuse all those amendments which do not respect the Law 5/1995; amendments which seek to cross this Law 5/1995 by drawing out its purpose, and which confuse the procedure of authorization; those which do not accept the ludic use of the thermal waters, which are subject to the law; those which do not respect the law; those which do not have to do with the object of this Law, such as those that refer to finance the obtaining of enabling titles, to encourage other types of activities, to encourage cooperative activities; those that hinder cooperatives; those who would hinder, would slow, even undermine the existing provisions of the law; those that do not currently exist at all times; those amendments which do not have the right to ensure that the rules already exist; those rules governing the rules governing the rules governing the rule; the rules governing the rules governing the rule; rules governing the rule; rules governing the comprehensive by a comprehensive in a regulation, the rule of regulation of regulation of regulation, the rule of regulation of regulation of regulation in the granting, the granting of the granting of the granting of the granting of custom, the granting of the granting of the granting of custom of custom of custom, that rule of custom, that the law, that provides, that provides, that provides, that the law of law which, that provide the law of law, that are that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the law, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, that govern, the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws And we also have to reject all those socialist amendments that treat thermal water as a hydraulic resource when it's a thermal resource. With this premise, they attributed powers to Waters and not Mines. Madam Presas, I'd like you to stand on this, on the next turn, to see what you think. Because, do you know what Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo meant to change the regulatory framework for the thermal waters of the Mines Act and the Waters Act? A transfer of competences to the central government and that both the spas and the thermal baths on the mine shore became dependent on the Hydrographic Confederation instead of the Industry Council. Yes, you know this, too, you know everything... I mean... yes, I'm sure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Would you agree with your natural BNG partners? And finally, we have to reject all those amendments that show that they did not understand that this law does not intend to touch the legal regime of mineral and thermal waters, or what is worse, which aims to modify it through this law, which is not possible, because you know that a higher standard, a state standard, prevails over an autonomous standard. I can assure you - I don't know if I have any time left - that I have made an effort to accept as many amendments as possible, especially with regard to the work done by the parliamentary groups and the rapporteurs - I regret that I had not received for some of the same respect! - and even knowing that, because of many amendments that we have accepted them, they would never feel satisfied. In fact, the Galician Nationalist Block accepts the 16 amendments. If we don't accept any, wrong, Mrs. Presas; if we accept them it was because the law was chaotic and with these 16 amendments the law makes sense, right? Well, Mrs. Presas, if we accepted all these amendments on the basis of these three premises, they would make a chaotic law, as you would say; a revolutionary whole that would not be where to take it. We accept amendments from the BNG, 17 precepts, both the object of the law, purposes, definitions, declaration of thermal water, request for use, instruction, resolution, rights, obligations and prohibitions, accessibility and security of installations, compatibility and therapeutic and playful uses, the first transitional provision, the last fourth and the annex on the required technical documentation. We also accept 9 amendments and we deal with 4 more, which amend 9 precepts; also Article 9, Instruction; Article 16, Duration and extension of the enabling title; Article 19, Final closure and abandonment. Article 23, Obligations and Forecasts, Article 33, Limitation of Offences, and Article 35, Classification of Penalties. From the Joint Left Group, we regret that they could only be 2, because they start from different basic assumptions and intend to modify, make a different law from what they bring. Of course, we can't do that, but I assure you, I tried. And of the 7 amendments of the Joint Group it was impossible to accept any, Mr. Casal. I'm sorry, but, listening to his brief intervention, there's no way to take it. Finally, we accept and trade 35 amendments to 19 articles and two provisions to the annex. I know you're not happy, ladies and gentlemen, I know you expect to change the law, but our duty is to maintain the spirit of the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Replica of amending groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u79	I thank the spokeswoman of the People's Party for her clarity: our amendments are nowhere to catch them. Of course, that is to say that thermal waters are public, that public uses must be protected, that competition cannot be limited, that you cannot even limit the market - which do so in the article I commented earlier - is totally unacceptable and out of place. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I think you should think about it. You allege that you want to give legal guarantees and security to operators who, on the one hand, want to develop new uses of play and, on the other hand, legitimates in the bathing sector. We too, but real guarantees, and real guarantees in the long term. I believe that this will be done by the spas, the new operators, the municipalities and the entire citizenship of Galicia for a sector of the importance of what we are talking about. And in this line of the long-term legal guarantee, it's not a good idea to make such a law as part of it and with aspects as legislated to public interest and even to market freedom, as I've already commented. The best legal security comes from consistent laws that defend cross-border interests and that can be compatible with the interests of the spas, new initiatives and also of the municipalities. This very afternoon you showed how in two hours you can unilaterally modify 27 laws. I don't know if that will give a lot of assurance to all the sectors involved. When laws are made unilaterally, regardless of the amendments, even if they are unacceptable or unacceptable, like ours, perhaps ours, but of the dozens of amendments that have also done the rest of the groups, the fundamentals, which defend compatibility with public use, those that defend the clarity of the public ownership of the resource, those that defend compatibility with another type of use, they didn't approve any of them. I mean, the best way to give legal guarantee is a consensual law. Think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, accept, make transactions, make a law that really isn't alone, as it seems, made by saying, and forgive me for telling you with this clarity. That's not legal certainty, because you explained it today. Within two hours you can modify 27 laws, as you can imagine one made by the knee of a single group. In such an important matter they should assume that this is no legal security for any sector, and this, indeed, is an aggravating for a public good of these characteristics. It is compatible, you can defend the interests of the spas, the interests of new operators of thermal uses of the water and also public uses. I say, they have time; before, with an even more important matter, as was the health guarantee in all the territories of Galicia, they did not heed. They could have arranged this amendment to obtain the unanimity of Parliament, but it seems that in this law they will opt for it and they will take off their knees to make a law that we will see how long it takes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u80	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I've been, ever since this legislation began, I've been taking dioptery and a half more, before I begin to process this law. In any case, I don't know if it was for the sake of our view that the German Government has forgotten to attach to the file, as we have already discussed in the whole debate — namely redundancy — some of the allegations made by the Transparency Portal that we do not know how they were answered or whether they were answered; perhaps it was by our view. But, jokes aside, we insist that it seems to us that we are losing an opportunity; an opportunity to do things differently and to address pending issues more deeply. I thank you, Mrs. Romero, for the tone of the debate. I really believe that in accepting amendments in this process of law, they tried to have something more generosity than in some other way. It is also true that within the laws that we have discussed, for example, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, there are degrees of political difference, and on the question of how the thermal model is, although we have different parameters, it is true that in the face of specific needs it can be relatively easier to reach some point in agreement on another matter and that this seems sufficient or seems to us to avoid the risks that this law has. In fact, returning to the amendments, I was already saying in my first intervention that there were like two great blocks, some of which are different models, others are more... I don't know if they're called techniques, but more of an organisational type. But, of course, between white and black, there are many gray scales, there are also many amendments that really, although we have different models, you could have accepted them and that they are neither chaotic nor would be chaotic, as you said, their acceptance. Because, what should be chaotic about having a system of evaluation of the economic return of this law? What's so chaotic about having a five-year plan that evaluates its results? Is that chaotic or is that doing our work as a parliament and as a public administration? Well, we thought it would be doing our job. We also don't know that it would have to be chaotic to develop a heritage recovery plan if we understood and if it is collected in the law's own object through a BNG amendment that really has to be harmonized with heritage value and also therapeutic value. We don't understand how chaotic it would be. So what they don't like about this amendment is that they must have a follow-up plan and that they're linked to an annual budget allocation. That's also the problem, but, in any case, it's not a problem of chaos, it's a problem of political will. We also don't know that it would have to be chaotic to have a record in this country of those sources of popular use that have properties, in addition to, medical mining in many cases. What would be the problem with that record? No problem. In any case, it would be more clarity and more information. I wanted to make a reflection also on this matter of public domain. One question is the public hydraulic domain from a legal point of view and another is what we're debating politically, which is that water is a public good and thermal water is a public good too. We believe that measures should be incorporated which ensure that, for example, from the point of view of the people and users of this country, all the Greeks and Galicians will have access, in some ways, to enjoy that heritage, which is collective, in the end and after all, even if it is timely exploited by a municipality or exploited by a company. That's where we're talking about that public right, and that question for us isn't settled. In any case, I already resolve your doubt, for I have been questioned directly, Mrs. Romero. Indeed, the Socialist Party has adopted Amendments Nos 5, 24, 31, 34, 38, 46, 47, 48, 54 and 60 — if I did not recompile them badly — that question between mines and waters, which we do not amend. Here's your answer. That does not prevent us from sharing many of the spirit issues that expressed here the voice of the Socialist Party, which seem to us to be important absences in this law and which should be developed in a different way. Finally, as I no longer have time, I insist that there are many issues of amendments that I think could have been taken advantage of but that involve greater commitments, commitments beyond getting a headline that comes out of a very beautiful law that will assume a worldwide advance, as it was almost said here, but that it will not be evaluated by anyone. Then they will continue to say in the coming years that it is a global success, but the opportunity to take a deeper step, to address pending tasks, and above all, to continue to worry that it will sponsor a confusion between the playful aspect and the therapeutic aspect. Because one thing is that a profit can be focused on the play issue and another thing is that these waters are free of any property; I mean, we can't go to a model that ends up favoring that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u83	...any installation with any water without these properties can have a picture of the consumer or the consumer that it is a thermal playful use when they really are not thermal water. We're worried that this law can bring such confusion and we're worried that it can distort the Greek thermal map simply because it's in a hurry and because it doesn't make this procedure any other way and with more ambition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u85	Mrs. Cristina Romero, thank you very much for trying to support our amendments as much as possible. Thank you very much, and respect that it's mutual, please, because if you tell one that you can't be more entrepreneurial, if you tell me I've studied badly, if you tell the other that you know everything... well, we're going to be respectful, really. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, without any kind of retreat. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I do, of course. Now, trying to give you an answer, I'll tell you that either I explain fatal or you've heard very little; i.e., you talk about three questions I'm going to try to answer. On the one hand, he talks about the spirit. We believe that this law has a purpose, that is to favor private, privatization; that's the spirit. Well, he won't convince me or I'll convince her. But when he says it can be separated, after clearly telling him that the therapeutic quality of thermal water is inseparable, it's only understood that they start not to understand this principle, this question is so clear, because it's not specified in the law either, look at you, if you can use only thermal water in the installations or you can mix water of different nature, because, if not, of course, a change in natural water properties would be caused; the parameters would be changed. Of course, we believe that, of course, heat reuse must be absolutely paramount. A real study of the flow rates needed for each type of installation should be carried out with the object of avoiding overexploitation, which is a real danger and which is not guaranteed here. Since the consumption by bathroom or pool is easily quantifiable, they should be published by the administration itself. Then I mean that we reaffirm ourselves absolutely, consistently, in the idea that the rule is privatising, that it is directed at favouring private companies. We think we need to defend the public. You really deny the sense of domination, of public belonging. I don't have the data here, but I'll pass it, there's a Supreme Court ruling that recognizes that the waters are public. We continue to say that it is unnecessary, which causes insecurity, which leaves in limbo the traditional wells, holes, fountains and springs. None of this; nothing of two reports on economic impact, nothing of contradictions in procedures, nothing of which says that no direct municipal management areas are foreseen. They keep insisting on differentiating uses. I'd tell you to go over it too, please -- and it's also referred to here by other people who preceded me -- the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of July 20, so the Water Law is approved. It's very clear. And with regard to the perimeters of protection, really, it says that we don't know them and that we're willing to fail, and then quote literally and textually a piece of this law, this bill, where we speak of perimeters of bathing protection. Please, this contradiction must clarify it. The protective perimeters are from the aquifers, and we say this over and over again. They're from the aquifers and, of course... now yes, but in the law you speak of the perimeters of protection of the spas, you literally quoted it. [[Mrs. Romero Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, they're not tools to grant monopolies and privileges. It's a textual quote, we'll see it later in the draft. On the last quote he spoke of perimeters for the protection of the spas. This figure does not exist in the legislation. And I insist that I believe that in this is in something that should be absolute clarity. Then we can say more things. There are two ways of taking advantage -- this has not given us time to treat ourselves or anyone -- in the first it is said that if the waters are born in private lands -- they really are not such, or they are granted timeless uses, and if the concessions are not thirty years old, they can be extended to seventy-five. This is absolutely excessive, Mrs. Cristina Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u87	Anyway, I'm sorry I don't have any more time, and see if we clear up a little bit of ideas, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Romero, there is really no plan for the thermal tourism of the Galician Union, which you have hung on the website is a plan for tourism developed by the Member of Ourense, the Member of Ourense! So, please check it out, see if it's a mistake. I will continue with my presentation of the amendments which were tabled by the Socialists of Galicia and which were rejected by the People's Party. In the first transitional provision, which speaks of the regularization of pre-existing ludicum uses of thermal water, at the third point, where it is said to be requested in any case report from the competent health counsellor, we present an amendment so that it is also necessary to request a report from the municipality where the installation is based, since we understand that the municipalities also have something to say, and that amendment was also rejected by the People's Party. In the second transitional provision, which says, "While the standard models of application are not approved for the procedures provided for in this law...", what we put to them is deadlines, because you are very accustomed to saying, "will be done", "will be ordered", at the end... "approach"... but those deadlines have a completely timeless character, and therefore you are quite... If you want to intervene and leave the president, I don't have any problems. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what we put to you in our amendment is that within a maximum of three months of the entry into force of this law, standard models of application are approved for the procedures laid down in the law. [[Laughter]] This amendment was also voted against. In the second transitional provision, we put the public and up-to-date nature of the Register of mineral, thermal and spring waters. The Council of Galicia shall immediately proceed to comply, in Article 21 of Law 5/1995, with regard to the public character of the Register of Mineral, Thermal and Water Waters, which is already covered by the existing law right now, if necessary, with the necessary updates, and in that register shall create a specific section for the playful use of the waters covered by this law. This amendment was also rejected by the People's Party. In the third transitional provision, where it says, "While it is not referred to as regulatory regulations as referred to in Article 24.2...", it must say, "At the latest of three months since the entry into force of this law, the regulatory rules referred to in Article 24.2 shall be laid down", and as regards the conditions. I mean, let's go back and set deadlines so you don't just stay in writing, in that law, that you have to do a regulatory development of this law. In the third transitional provision we request something that seems quite important to us, and it is the creation of a thermal tourism plan. And we literally say, "The Galician Board, within a maximum of six months since the adoption of this law, will approve the Thermal Tourism Plan, with the aim of enhancing the resources of this sector throughout Galicia, structuring supply, resources and services, in such a way that they lead to the empowerment of tourism values and natural and cultural resources, with sustainability as a key criterion to contribute more to socio-economic development and the empowerment of thermal destiny. """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" This amendment was also rejected by the People's Party. In the last first provision we spoke of the Board and the creation of a thermal section within the Tourism Observatory, and in another amendment, which we called for at the last disposal, which was also rejected, we said: " Within the Galician Tourism Observatory a section will be set up to deepen knowledge of the thermal sector from its different perspectives: to promote innovation in rural development through thermalism, to promote new public policies that contribute to the development of thermalism, to facilitate cooperation among the agents involved in the sector, to cooperate with other similar bodies outside of Galicia and to systematize the socio-economic and tourist data of the thermal sector in Galicia."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u91	You voted against, too. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Socialists are not going to vote, and we are not going to vote because you in your law do not regard all water as a public asset. They do not modify the current regulation of these waters by the Mines Act to pass on to those who have water competences. We don't think there's a new law to be passed, which would be more appropriate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Time's up. We're going too late today. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you vote that not because Mr. Caballero doesn't let them... they abstained in commission and now they vote not. [[Protests.]] Look at the plumber! [[Applause]] They vote not with the same argument, with the same argument, because we just stretch out a little bit more explaining, but we all argue exactly the same thing. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I know you don't like the truth, but it's true, Mr. Knight came here and ordered you to stop. [[Murmurs.]] Good. [[Applause]] They present the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, and I repeat, they are unacceptable by the three premises I have explained before and now I will not repeat them again. But, look, its amendments serve to show the different models of the progressive left that come together to govern; some models that are contradictory to each other, because the Common Left Group considers that the use of thermal water, whether in balnearies, tanks or wells, is purely therapeutic, but the definition of therapy is that it is a treatment for a disease, and that is given in the spas because there is a medical director who prescribes what is the needed bathing cure for each disease. However, BNG recognizes the need to distinguish and not confuse the playful use of these two waters. On the other hand, the socialists want to return the state competence of the waters, which are regulated and so on. The whole revolution, gentlemen! What chaos! [[Applause]] You couldn't approach this law with these different models, they would leave this situation as it is, without guarantees for users, disregarding a social demand and not allowing this sector to develop, which still has much growth margin, gentlemen. Mrs. Cuña, I don't know if you're saying something wrong... It's not that it's expressed badly, it's that I think it's wrong to assimilate concepts; it seems we're talking about different things. See, Article 7 - I told you - refers to the protection of existing perimeters, which were granted under Article 13 of the Law of 1995 at the time the spas applied for therapeutic use, which was the only one that could be requested. So, it's not the spas, it's the aquifers, they come out of the spas. Well, well. Then they say how you're going to privatize something that's already private. Because they look, lords, thermal waters, if they are born on public land, they're public, but if they're born on private land, so I explained earlier, they're private. But you don't accept this. Look, if what they want to modify is the legal regime of the thermal waters, neither is this the place, nor is this the time, through this law, nor is this the place, they will have to do it in the Courts and modify both the Water Law and the Mines Law. And look, I did make reference to the recast text of the Water Law of 2001, I made reference and I don't know if you heard me, but I did make reference. The legal framework for these waters is clear and stable, and it is respected for multiple reforms, both by the Law of Waters and Mines of the State of the various governments and by all political colors, as well as by the Law of Bipartite Mining, which has decided to exclude them from their scope consciously. With regard to the municipalities, they can request the playful use of the thermal waters, both on public land of their property or on land transferred or on land that they also buy for that. Of course they can do it, and they're actually going to have to do it to regularize the pre-existing ludicrous uses. What we cannot accept, as you ask, is that they can expropriate the existing private uses and even that they can expropriate the spas. And about the mantra of the related companies. Let's see, what predominates the therapeutic use of thermal waters over the playful use is to be close to the spas? Well, I think we should all be after ourselves, then. But what do you have against the Greek spas? A sector that dynamizes socially and economically where it is located, which is usually within our community; a sector that is more than 90 % in the hands of Greek capital, which are mostly family pemes, which directly employs 1,200 workers and indirectly more than 5,000 and which gives women quality jobs due to the characteristics of their facilities. They don't have anything easy, because it's not easy, they have very restrictive regulations and very expensive investment. Are you against these companies as well? Are you still against these workers? Clearly, Your Honor, your model would not only develop the thermal sector, it would help close the existing spas. I'm done. This Law on the regulation of the playful use of the thermal waters of Galicia solves issues such as ending the situation of allegency, of the legal vacuum currently existing, enabling the growth of the thermal sector in an orderly way, reforming the quality of our thermal supply, ensuring the hygiene and health of the waters and the settlements and shielding rational and sustainable use, preserving the environment and the aquifers. That is why I would like to thank all parliamentary groups again for the work done in the presentation, which has helped to complete and improve the text of the law, as well as the invaluable help of our lawyer, who has helped us to draft the transaction done. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u95	We shall vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the amendments to the Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. We begin by voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. It asked the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in this case, to separate Amendments Nos 7 to 20, 26 to 31 and No 74. We vote for this separation. Voting Amendments 7 to 20, 26 to 31 and 74 to G.P. Jointly with the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which have not been incorporated into the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 20. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u96	We now vote in a joint vote on the remaining amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. Jointly with the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures which have not been incorporated into the Commission's ruling, except those which have already been voted on. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 38; abstentions, 6. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u97	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for amendments Nos 6 and 7 to be voted on separately. We voted for these two amendments. Vote for Amendments Nos 6 and 7 to G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which have not been incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u98	And now we are voting together on the rest of the amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures which have not been incorporated into the Commission's ruling, except for numbers 6 and 7 already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u99	We are now voting on amendments to the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. The Socialist Group called for amendments 19, 20, 23, 28 and 38. Amendment Nos 19, 20, 23, 28 and 38 G.P. of the Joint Left Group to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which have not been incorporated into the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 52; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u100	And now we also vote separately, because this is what the Socialist Group is asking for, Amendment No 27. Amendment No 27 to the G.P. of the Joint Left Group to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which has not been incorporated into the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 20. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u101	And now we are voting together on the rest of the amendments of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Joint Left Group to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures which have not been incorporated into the Commission's ruling, except amendments to this group which have already been voted on. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 38; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u102	And now we are voting together on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures which have not been incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 38; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u103	And now — let us pay attention — we have voted on the committee's opinion. [[Murmurs.]] You have to warn him not to pass the previous one. It happened once, but it can't happen again. [[Murmurs.]] We vote for it. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The Opinion on the draft law on tax and administrative measures is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u104	We are now voting on the amendments to Ditame, issued by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the draft law regulating the ludicrous use of the thermal waters of Galicia. First of all, we voted for amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which range from number 1 to paragraph 7. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. Mixed in the draft law on the regulation of the playful use of Galician thermal waters not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u105	We now vote together, too, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft law regulating the playful use of Galician thermal waters not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u106	We are now voting on amendments to the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Joint Left Group to the Draft Law regulating the fungal use of Galician thermal waters not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u107	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of Galician Socialists to the draft law regulating the playful use of Galician thermal waters not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u108	We voted for the 6th Commission on this project. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the draft law on the regulation of the ludicrous use of the thermal waters of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. As a result, the Ditame is approved on the draft law on the regulation of the ludic use of the thermal waters of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u109	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with agenda item 2, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of maritime rescue and the fight against marine pollution
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u110	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u111	Good afternoon. After the interrogation made to the sea councillor at the previous plenary session on the occurrence of the Blue Star chemist in the Ares River, today we present a motion in which, first of all, we demand information. Too many shadows exist and, of course, in the BNG we think we need to know what happened, know what failed, know who made the decisions and what time. We think it takes information to learn from the event, to draw conclusions, because we don't want the same story repeated over and over again. That is why the first issue of this motion is that a detailed report of the Blue Star accident is presented in this Parliament in the Ares River from its beginning to its present day. We want to know why the ship of its founder is leaving Ares when it was alerted yellow by the intensity of the wind, sea of bottom and waves of 5 meters; who authorized or allowed the movement of the ship, whether it was monitored or controlled its movement; when it was known or anticipated the collision of the ship with land and what measures were taken. We need to know what time the machine stop took place, what time it got to where it crashed and what the Rescue Control Center did at that time, if the state response system was activated, what measures were taken for this reason and at what time. In short, we want it to be clarified if you gave an answer in time and form and if you haven't done it, why. The information that has flowed from the control tower to the ship and from the ship to the control tower must be put on the table. You need information because, again, improvisation and lack of strategy were the pattern of constant action throughout this process. We regret that it was only informed of what had happened through press releases or statements to the media. Once again, in the face of an accident of this magnitude, the operating parts signed by the responsible persons were not made public. And we believe that, in the face of such accidents, official information is needed, not information on political charges in front of the media, but official information. We also believe that it is necessary to know what was the institutional relationship of the Spanish Government with the Council of Galicia. We asked the advisor in the past and, of course, we didn't get an answer. What if you understand the information we have is that the board, the Galician board, was a stone guest, who was totally none. In addition, the Galician Union allowed none of this to be done by the Spanish Government. It was an accident within a Galician creek, in which he has powers over the Galician Union, and in which the Greek Government, the Galician Union, paints absolutely nothing, acts as a spectator and performs a serene act. We see him as a government that dissipates itself from the problems of your country. Of course, we believe that we have to have an explanation, that we really need to know what happened and if we had any sort of participation in Galician Union in making decisions. And if he didn't, what was the reason he wouldn't have, if he didn't want to have it, if he didn't want to act, if he disagreed, or if he didn't want it to be part of the Spanish Government. If this was the case, what did she do to Galician Union in the face of this action? We believe that these issues, in the face of an accident, need to be known because it rains on wet. From the BNG we do not want to allow under any concept that our country's government is a guest of stone or has no action in the face of accidents of this magnitude. Then we also want measures for the sea sector. We want the marine and fisheries sector to be kept permanently informed — in this case, the confrereries and groupings of Ares, Pontedeume, Mine, Sada, Lorbé, La Coruña or the Ferrol River — and to start the precise performances, including aid lines, to ensure the incomes of the fishing sector. I have to remind you again that the stream of Ares has an important productive, fishing and seafood wealth — there are the Miranda Islands, of great biodiversity — where it has been forbidden to faenar for almost three weeks — eighteen days. It is a very dependent area of fishing and shellfish, with three plans of exploitation and shellfish affected, at least at this moment — the one of the sense, the one of the hedgehog and the one of the anemone — which are open at this time; as well as the vessels of bass, which at this time are devoted, above all, to crustaceans, to the hundredth and to the necoras. I think, by the names I just said, we can all understand the value of these products at this time, just on Christmas Eve. Well, on Christmas Eve, it turns out they're forbidden to go out. In view of this situation, we have received no response from the Council of the Sea. We don't know if you were aware of this closure, of the kind of actions, of the type of measures, or if you're going to arbitrate some kind of aid measures so that the sea sector doesn't take behind you the consequences of the Blue Star embarrassment. It's fair that it's not the sector of the sea that pays the consequences. The Galician Union, the Sea Councillory, has powers in fishing and shellfishing and at least had to show concern and occupation about what was going on. Of course, the information we have is that he didn't do one thing or another, nor did he get in touch with the confrereries to know what was going on, nor did he develop a joint strategy so that the losses wouldn't — I insist — be on the back of the sector. Our information is that he didn't do anything at all. We certainly want them to get in touch with the sector and take action to compensate for the losses of these days. We also want all the necessary measures to ensure the protection of the marine ecosystem and of the productive and fisheries activity in the Ares River. If in 2014 the Spanish Government, by Fomento, declared this hive as a base zone for ships, we want to know that it brought that statement together. What kind of measures, what types of actions, what types of improvements, what types of prevention has been planned and implemented in this case to preserve this area. We want to know which protocol has been established in the face of an accident, which means are the ones that are activated and which measures have been used to protect the river. Yesterday he had sunk into the stream of Ares seven ships, four ships loaded, because they didn't just melt ships that were on the slab or that were waiting to enter the port to go carry, they also found ships loaded, which could be loaded with dangerous substances. In view of this situation, is the stream of Ares background, in exchange for what? With what protective measures? With what kind of performances is this laugh preserved? We want to know, and we want them to start, because we're talking about a permanent risk in a stream that has been too often subject to maritime pollution. As a last point, we also demand from the Spanish Government the transfer of exclusive maritime rescue powers and the fight against marine pollution in the area of Galicia, in accordance with Article 152.2 of the Constitution and Article 36 of our Autonomy Statute. We do so in the belief that the best way to avoid disasters is that the Galician coast is managed from Galicia. When management is made six hundred kilometers underground, from Madrid, an accident can become an environmental, social and economic disaster. Of course, we ask for it not by a whim but, for a country like Galicia, with a hundred miles of coastline, with a very important fishing and seafood activity and a maritime corridor, so hundreds of ships with dangerous substances pass through, is of vital importance. There is a report by the European Maritime Safety Agency (ESMA) which has developed to analyse the real policies and capacities for operational response in the Member States of the European Union. The conclusion of this study says that despite having suffered traumatic experiences, Galicia alone has limited capacity to cope with an accident involving a chemist, a gas tank or a similar vessel. It says this report by ESMA that the Spanish State has not specifically carried out a risk assessment study on ships with toxic loads passing through our coasts. It also points out that the current State Contingency Plan does not include the possibility of a disaster of these characteristics, as well as that the Spanish State does not have any specialized equipment to control and monitor discharges with toxic, flammable or explosive substances. We believe — I insist — that this report by the European Maritime Safety Agency, which says that if it has been carried out for the transport of fuel goods but not for any other type of toxic goods, such as the Blue Star, which could have been loaded instead of being on the stage, proves that it happens every day with ships that are founded in the Ares River or that pass on to our shores. So we're asking for information on this motion, today, about what happened, what happened and who was responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u113	...and the measures were taken. Measures for the fisheries sector, measures for the protection of our rivers and rectification as to how all the incident related to the Blue Star chemistry was handled. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u115	Good afternoon, ladies. From En Marea we will support this motion, not without making a series of appreciations. First of all, the subject of the competition regime. We say it here many times, we think the acquisition of new transfers as part of the enlargement of self-government is always a positive affirmation of this House, and another thing is that we can think that it will substantially change right now how to address a sinister if it is in the hands of the administration of Feijóo, something we have also seen that it has been handled in a similar way in past cases. It is therefore not only the question of transfer, but also the question of who exercises competition from a political point of view. We also want to nuance that it seems inappropriate if you intend to address this matter as if you haven't changed anything since the Prestige accident. I think it loads us more than enough arguments to make the accuracy that if there were changes. There were some changes of transcendence, some that were only on paper and others that were with means. It is necessary to make these precisions to be more correct from that point on when making a diagnosis and a series of recommendations for improvement. There are approved rescue plans, the National Maritime Rescue Plan, of maritime continence, has been defined — I think I remember — at the end of 2012. They were controversial at that time the designations of shelter ports because no river originally wanted to accommodate those types of designations in case there were catastrophes. However, there have been steps in that direction, later modified by a regulation still at the end of 2014, and so on. There's some other means. There are deposits that have more means, and that must also be taken into account and, of course, also a substantial change in European legislation, not only for the purposes of compensation but also for technical regulations to establish minimum conditions for navigation, in this case by the coastal corridor of Fisterra. We also have a speech objection on one of the possible ways of interpreting the explanatory part of the motion as to whether the State or, in this case, the Autonomous Community had to become a kind of universal insurer of private risks. From Marea we don't think so. We think that we must ensure an insurance regime, not only of responsibilities, but also of rescue and rescue, that we should prevent the navigation of those vessels that do not contain that insurance, in the same way that it is an obligation that is also produced in the means of road traffic and there is no public crane rescue system for those vehicles that are injured. We think that this would be an assumed issue and that, therefore, in the principle of who causes the risk must be the one who sets up the prevention barriers and who assumes the damage caused, the risk of what has to be taken care of, in this case, the Public Administration is how to act in case of emergency and how to monitor to avoid both environmental damage and damage to people. So it's a nuance that we think is important because, depending on how it is interpreted, it would force or not have a whole public system of rescue and tow. And we understand that this must be a precondition for the ship's own navigationability. That is something in which international legislation can be improved at this time of a conventional nature and which would remain — a little — defined in the motion. We defend a public intervention, that is yes, strong, of surveillance and control and of having the means of rescue for the first emergency. May there be deposits of anti-contamination means, both barriers and means of rescue, which are close enough to allow them to immediately address the situation. So this, yes, but don't make the rescues of private ships with public means, unless they put themselves at risk — as I said — the environment or people's lives. In this particular case, there is a question on which we agree and which I think we need to insist on, and which I believe has not been questioned until now: that it is necessary for the shipowner to assume the costs of work, not only the rescue, but also the compensation for all the economic losses that the rapporteur pointed to in relation to the sea sector as a result of the closure of part of the river during the time when the Blue Star has been trapped. It was not in question, of course, that this was so. That's why we understand that the way to interpret -- I think it's the third point -- when we talk about the aid lines, we think that what we need to guarantee is that the insurer fulfils its obligations and, in the event that aid lines are established, that it is a subrogation for a right of repetition over who has the responsibility to do so. We insist on a question, which is a question that has already been regretted when it was the issue of the Prestige accident, which is that what cannot be done is that the benefit of the carriage of goods or of navigation is private and then the damage is public, having to be assumed by the State without the possibility of repetition against who really is its final responsible. That's why we support this motion, but making these clarifications that we think are useful also for a debate that is fundamental to our country. From a competitive point of view, as I said earlier, we fully support the full assumption of the entire maritime surveillance and rescue regime, which provides both for the Constitution and our Statute of Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u116	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Joint Left Group, young man.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I compare here today with this shirt, which I always think will be fashionable and, really, I never get it fashionable. Seventeen years later we have to be here again today saying "Never again" and again with the disappointment of what might have happened. I wanted to bring you in memory of these thousands of people from other parts of the state, other places in the world, who came here to remove that hat from the Prestige. But, well, we're going to. The stream of Ares, a winter night, broken wind, perhaps stronger than expected, a tanker is melted into the chapel. Despite weather conditions, the boat starts maneuvering into the port of Coruña. Something goes wrong, the machine fails, and the boat, without close attendance, ends up stuck against the rocks. Obviously, I'm talking about the Exeo Sea, because the similarities with the Blue Star of the Exeo Sea are amazing twenty-seven years later. Luckily, this time the ship was empty and had a double helmet but the similarities are really worrying. We want to know, as we wanted to know in the case of the Exeo Sea, what happened exactly at the time that the Blue Star lost the machine, at 2220 hours, until it was definitely embarrassing at 23.50 hours, an hour and a half later; that conversations had the Captain of the Blue Star with the Coruña's watchtower and communicated to the maritime commander his state. As it may be that in front of the port of the Coruña, in the stream of Ares, there is a boat an hour and a half with a defeat, a ship without a machine, which leads it down against the Miranda Islands of Ares without any possibility of giving it tow from The Coruña or Ferrol. Did you notice the captain of the fire and the damage? And in that case, the Coruña tower staff couldn't read the status of the ship on the radar, couldn't you see the imminent danger of collision? In other words, was there a delay in the warning, was there a delay in the reaction or was there a delay in the attendance? Or the worst of the options: Were there currently no means at hand for immediate action? All of these questions are very important for clear fabrics to prevent cases like this from happening again. Maria Pita was the trailer who first attended the Blue Star. Some sea-related people in the Coruña warned us of the deficiencies in the state of that ship, with limited towing capacity. Here the counselor explained the other day that Don Inda, a tugman who, if he has that capacity, arrived on Saturday morning. I insist, less bad that the ship was empty, less bad! because if it was really full, we'd probably be talking about something else today. We take advantage of the opportunity to learn for the future of this experience. We want to analyze in depth what happened, because it's the only real way to try not to happen again. We will request from the Left Joint Group the report which is expected to be issued by the Standing Committee on Maritime Accidents and Accidents. We'll be very careful with this report. We're worried about the joints, too. Camgal is active, and yet we see absolutely no barrier to the area. [[Maritime anti-contamination plan]] The counselor said the other day here that it was for the work that was being done from the sea. However, from the second day on, no work was done from the sea. All the work was prepared from the ground and all the work was fuel extraction from the ground, why didn't there be those barriers? In fact, there came to be a verquide which, though small, was actually a verquide. At that time, — I insist — there were no near anti-contamination barriers because it is also true that the anti-contamination barriers cannot be set in cases of bad weather, but there was no skimmer ship from which — by the way — they are in the port of the Coruña. I mean, it wouldn't be hard to get him there either. This weekend runs through social networks a video recorded in Sada where you see a dump of several dozen meters, and some sailors and some people in the area think it might be that little waste that did happen at the time of fuel. Let's join the call for aid for the confrereries affected by the unemployed in fishing and in shellfishing in those days. And apparently, the most surprising thing for us is that it doesn't seem to be a media problem, we have the means. So, what's the problem? We need to know. We need to know what's the problem of a ship being without a machine for an hour and a half in front of the Coruña port, between the Coruña port and the Ferrol outer port, and we can't stop it from going to peak. Let's think about it because it's really worrying, it's very worrying. We need all the information about what happened in this case. We need a thorough investigation. We need and understand that this incident is a good opportunity to learn and avoid similar situations in the future, because we want to ensure that really the means at our disposal, both technical and human, are able to deal with these kinds of incidents. We're really talking about a case you have to alert us. I personally believe, even, that it is almost a small blessing to have had this incident that had only minor repercussions, because we imagine this ship was loaded. Let's remember Urquiola, the Exeo Sea, the Prestige, so many other ships. We have here the maritime corridor of Fisterra, very close to here, every year thirty-six thousand ships pass. In the data that Monte Enxa gave -- we're not going to say that it co-ordinates from Madrid, we haven't arrived there, Mount Enxa has been operating for twenty-five years, just these days he's made his birthday, and, of course, it seems to us that this has been an advantage in recent years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u118	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u119	...but thirty-six thousand ships—he gave the concrete data—about twelve thousand carry dangerous, chemical and contaminant substances. Let us take this matter seriously and, of course, we will support this motion of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u120	Thank you, Mr. Jove. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u121	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies. For the Socialist Group, it is of course a priority to maintain maritime safety in its aspects of protecting lives, protecting ships, and protecting our shores and marine resources. In the Blue Star rescue operation, which ended without environmental damage, which is one of the maritime rescue priorities along with the human lifeguard, coordination between different administrations (the central, the autonomous and the local) as well as coordination between public and private services was fundamental. This operation showed the maturity of the public maritime rescue. This operation was developed in two phases. The first phase of the operation, aiming to avoid environmental risk, with the withdrawal of 100 tonnes of fuel and 14 other oils and other wastes, and a second phase consisting of reflecting the ship. In order for this operation to reach the right port, coordination between all services was crucial. In this case, in Blue Star, the company responsible for managing the operation has this time found a more receptive interlocutor in the Spanish maritime administration, which has not happened in previous cases, as cases that have already been remembered here. The ship was the one who took responsibility for the ship, as established by international legislation. It was the ship itself who at the time decided to suspend the attempts to replant for a better analysis of the ship's situation. At that moment, the Central Government set as a priority the protection of the environment and demanded it from the shipowner in a fuel extraction plan. Now that it has been reflected and that the final damage report is ending to know the extent of the repairs, which will be done — as we know — in Navantia, we agree that it is necessary to investigate and analyze the causes of the Blue Star accident, as well as whether the procedures adopted were the right ones. That is why we consider it appropriate to request this detailed report to be presented in this House. To point out, in this sense, that the commission of investigation into maritime accidents and incidents is investigating the causes of this accident and that it is expected that their results will be known within a year. And, of course, we agree that it is essential that all available information be transmitted permanently to the entire affected fishing and seafood sector. With regard to the aid lines to compensate for the income of the sector's work, although since last Sunday it can already be done, it's true that for three weeks they couldn't do it, with therefore economic prejudice. We therefore agree with the proposed group that this aid for the sector needs to be accelerated. And at this point, I'm left with the words of the sea councillor at the previous plenary, when he came to this House, who said that first the prohibition had been adopted on security grounds, which we didn't discuss, but he also said that later he would look at how he could deal with the inoperability of the sector. We, from the Socialist Group, what we ask the Government of the Council of Galicia is agility in the implementation of these much-needed aids for the sector, independently — as one of the speakers who spoke before me said — that then these aids can be impacted on the insurance company. And we ask him for agility because he's very assiduous on the part of the Council of the Sea to say they're working for the sector but a lot of money and a lot of facts, because then we see him in the budgets of the Galician Council for the Sea Council, which were recently approved, where we see that they don't make a commitment by the sector. For example, because they voted against amendments tabled by this Socialist Group, such as including those insurance for bad weather and that sector when it cannot go out. It is true that the sector itself affected by the Blue Star asked the Galician Board for alternative areas to continue working, one of the best times of the year — as was said here — and also complained about not having official information about accidents and plans for this collective With regard to the request for the transfer of maritime rescue competition, we believe that the fundamental thing in this sense is not to have both the competences and the functions of them. We are not against it, but we understand that it would be necessary to study whether this competition is transferred will involve greater effectiveness, which is fundamental in this service. It's crucial to see if that transfer will involve greater efficiency and also greater security. Because, of course, we see that we, who are an autonomous party, have demonstrated this with initiatives that we also bring to this House — not like other parties, that in more than ten years of government, have not been able to apply for even one of those transfers—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u123	...we will request the separate vote on this last point to continue in line with what this Socialist Parliamentary Group has shown in discussing this transfer. That is why we would like to vote on this point separately. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u124	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u125	Good afternoon, thank you President. First of all, I would like to say that all the questions you raise today in this motion, Mrs. Prado, because they have answers today, because the other day when you did the interpellation, despite the fact that the advisor gave clear explanations, today they have all the answers. And they need information and they're going to have information, because we're not going to oppose providing information and, in addition, when the Galician Union and the president themselves have announced that a report will be made and that you will have that report of this event. We're talking about Blue Star without problem, with total transparency, there's nothing to hide. In addition, as I say, today is the day to speak, to render an account, to hold the political debate. Today is the day of political debate, because none of us in this parliament and no one — I insist — wants these things to happen. It seems to me that to make comparisons and compare this case with the Aegean Sea because there would be some shade, wouldn't it? I didn't have a load and a fuel either. It's true that it's equally serious but it's not comparable to the event that took place in the Aegean Sea. We believe that you are often only politically opposed to the Union, against the PP, because there is a lot of evidence when the People's Party is ruling in Madrid and Spain, in the Government of Spain, and when the Socialist Party is doing or trying to make a government and how you keep all the explanations to the Ministry, because there is no Ministry of Development right now. Here was a spokesman who spoke of everything he did to Junta, or who thinks he didn't, so he asks for information, others speak of none of the board's total. So, what are you saying, what did the entire Ministry of Development do? You get into a lot of contradictions for trying to make a policy against the Galician Union and a policy against the PP, even with this issue. We say that when it is — I insist — the PSOE in Madrid does not say a word, there is no Ministry of Development. Mrs. Otero made here a storyteller, information about what they could tell you or tell you about the Ministry itself, and Mrs. Prado, Mr. Jupiter and Mr. Villares are talking only about the Unity of Galicia. Look. The first, ladies, save lives. Then avoid contamination. Then, saving the boat, and then, that is, now, today, is to have a political debate. Yes, it is true, an in-depth political debate. Besides, I'm convinced, and we all know, that we're greatly improving maritime rescue conditions, and Galicia is the autonomous community that has the most security and maritime rescue means. We see on this subject — as I say — a certain opportunism. We see little work and, besides, little political value, much party value, above all, by the interpellation that has been made in the past. But we are willing to support the first five points of the motion as well, because we have very clear reasons and, in addition, full transparency in reporting on what has been done in this case. The sixth point, as you clearly know that we are often debating in some LNP, is to refuse the transfer of competences, because it is clear that having competences in Galicia will not guarantee and will not improve, it will not prevent this from happening or that these rescue or rescue tasks are better done. You hide or listen to a speech that is unfounded. We have said many times, and in addition there are reports, we in the GNP that we brought in just six or seven months ago on this subject, including the transfer of competences, make it clear that this would not ensure that, if the competences were here, if they did the best work. What's important is that they're coordinated from Galicia by Greek experts, who are coordinated here in Galicia and who know very well what they're doing. Because here you say that transfers come here to Galicia, as Mr. Villares says, and Mr. Feijóo would not be able to coordinate. What do you want to do? Politically coordinate those rescue tasks? They're made by Galician technicians, coordinated from Galicia, just a few meters and miles from where the boat was. We therefore believe that it is perfectly and that it has improved a lot in this matter, and that Galicia has means and has operational means. Look, the difference between the Bipartite, who decided to have three air media with a response time of thirty minutes, with the PP government, we opted for air, twenty-four hours and three hundred sixty-five days, with a response time of ten minutes. And that, in addition, has been noted since that decision was made. Forty-two new people have been incorporated since 2014. Most experts and people who know about this subject, the Greeks, and who are coordinating these accidents from Galicia. They're renewing four patrols and a heavy patrol. So don't say you're abandoned or you're not getting better. They work, they respond, and therefore that discourse of privatization and lack of media is roundly false. We, Mrs Prado, are going to support the first five points. Or one: submit a detailed report. They will have this detailed report, which is being drafted, and do not forget to demand it from the Government of Spain too, because I think it is important that we all have a report from the Ministry of Development or those with competence in this area. The second point is to keep the sector informed. You've been informed at all times, and what we're curious about is that you're quoting several Arc Archive confrereries in the exhibition of motifs and when they did the interrogation they spoke only about Ferrol. So we don't know if you're asking for information and they're going to report, or misinformed, to others. Today he said, Mrs. Prado, but writing or writing the explanatory statement did not match the confrerery in the interpellation you put in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u127	I'm done, president. In point three, the measures they request are all in progress. And point four: on the help lines. We fully support it, and I also say it by asking the Government of Spain, too, because I believe that this action was also taken by the Crown Captain in the exercise of his powers, in the wake of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2011. So we at point five "a realistic proposal", which we fully support and which, in addition, if we could sue the port authorities of the Maritime Captain, too. So these are important, essential points, and we are going to support whether you accept the point vote, because you know that in the transfer of competences we are against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u129	I insist, Galicia is the autonomous community that has more means for maritime rescue. And I end up wishing there were no events and accidents like this, as we all wish in this parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Author group of the motion, Prado lady.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u131	BNG appreciates the favourable position of supporting an important part of the motion we present. Basically — I said in the exhibition — as far as information is concerned not to repeat the same mistakes, to learn from the event and, above all, to deal with the sea sector, because the sea sector needs concern and occupation. So it seems very good to us that the People's Party is going to vote in favour, but then we too will be looking forward to how long these aids are being arbitrated and how long this report is being presented here. BNG asks for explanations in Galicia because we're in Galicia and because the accident happened in Galicia, in a Galician creek. Of course, we have already asked for explanations in Madrid too — of course — because there are powers and explanations that the Government of the State has to give. I regret, not small excuse, manifest accusation. I don't think anyone here feels alluded to. In any case, I regret that neither PP nor PSOE will vote in favour of the transfer to Galicia of competition in maritime rescue and fight against pollution because they are portrayed. Because — see — Galicia is located in the daily transit zone of vessels carrying goods through the traffic corridor. Forty thousand ships — around eighteen thousand with dangerous goods — a hundred ships a day — of which thirty-five carry dangerous goods. I read the European Agency's report that there is no protection for anything that is not hydrocarbons, and you find that you don't want... and that's what we had to add to the subject of all the fishing and sports boat accidents, which are most of them. And having the resources here and the ability to decide here -- not a Greek, but in Galicia and by the Government of Galicia -- turns out that for you it's a problem. Of course, not for BNG, not much less. Because there's someone here today who said it wasn't clear that having the competitions here would work better. I don't know why you think a godmother will be smarter than a Greek. Of course, at the BNG we believe that the Greeks are as smart as any one. They're as smart as anyone to make the decisions! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Of course, as everyone knows, it's much better than someone outside to send to your house. It's much better if they give you the budget, tell you what you have to buy, what you have to eat, how you have to dress, what you have to buy and what to do with the money we pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u132	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u133	It's so much better when someone tells you from outside, and if it's from Madrid, it's much better, because in Madrid they have a much bigger question. Of course, we find it very regrettable that someone in Madrid is going to do better than we are, having the skills here. Of course, at the BNG we have very clear that we should rule our home and decide what's best for us is always so much, so much better. And there's one thing very clear: after a decade, the People's Party absolutely didn't want any more competition, not a single one in the Faixo decade, not a single one! He does not want to have instruments to act on the problems that affect us; neither the problems of the sea, nor the accidents of the sea, which, of course, affect our country, and very much, our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u134	Thank you. So today, we are in favor of information, in favor of caring for the people of the sea, but the BNG will continue to insist in terms of us the ability to decide what affects us, and the sea affects us and very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. I guess you're going to accept the vote by points, and that means that what has to be separated is the last point, which is the sixth. That's right. Thank you. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of pediatric care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u136	An amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u137	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In Verin it's born in law. It must be the only municipality in which to be born through judicial order. It is absolutely incomprehensible that two weeks after the debate we had here, of the massive protest of thousands of people in Verín, the Government of the People's Party continues without taking a step back on an absolutely incomprehensible and cruel decision, which is not based on concepts, of course, professional and is not shaken by scientific elements. And I will explain it and I will refer — as I did in the past — to the intervention. It's absolutely incomprehensible that you don't leave behind but what's perhaps worse than incomprehensible is that every time the President of the Galician Union and the Galician Union seem to want to change their position and say that they won't close, which depends, the only thing they do is insult and hide behind professionals. Today, let's start with other statements by the president of the Galician board, who — I have to say here — you see each time in that smaller seat, because he's absolutely cowardly, first, hiding behind the healthcare professionals and, secondly, hiding behind the mothers today. You're going to have to make some kind of decision. Either the health counsellor ceases, or whoever the president ceases will be the Welsh and, of course, the neighbors and neighbors of Verín. And that's because — as your lordships know — two weeks ago he had the unfortunate idea of hiding behind professionals saying that they were professionals and that they were the data offered — data, by the way, for the ones we're still waiting for — those who recommended, for reasons of safety and professional expertise, to transfer births to Ourense. He doesn't lack anything: he insults the professionals in Vienna and doesn't offer any data or scientific evidence. We have already moved that we should read the complete guide on which they were based and that was denied by professionals: the Guide to Hospital Maternity. Because there are, in addition to criteria of number of care — which, by the way, never reached the number of care coming from that hospital guide — also criteria of population dispersion and criteria of isochrons at the time of transfers. And that's pretty obvious because, if not, in no rural county they would have the right to have practically no service. It's pretty obvious that this doesn't get caught with tweezers. But since it didn't come with that, now that they say, if so, there's a pediatrician who opens up. Yesterday he was hiding behind the mothers and transferring responsibility to the mothers: well, if they want to go, they can go to the parlor under their responsibility. Of course, as if it were a self-service parlor! The women of Verín and the women of Monterrey have the same right to have a public health service as a parent, and the children and children of that village have the same right to have a pediatric emergency service. It is absolutely incomprehensible for a president of an autonomous government to hide behind professionals first and then behind mothers and families; it is absolutely incomprehensible. Because what's moving, the message that's being given to those people who have mobilized is that they have no right to live there. Today — by the way, we must thank them for the effort, the bravery and the example they are giving — they were at the doors of this Parliament with three degrees of temperature, without any member of the Health Council — I don't say the president — I should have gone down to talk to them and they should, I should have received them, I should have said that they understand it, let them know that they're going to solve it, let them know that they're going to put everything on their side. No one has ever even gotten close, because that's the respect they have for the countryside and the services of the rural municipalities. I've already said it in the full past: why would they bring a demo law? Keep it in the drawer, keep it in the pocket, don't bring it in. Because if there's no employment and there's no public services, we can't talk about demography, we can't talk about this problem of displacement of the population towards urban nuclei. In some areas there is talk of empty Spain. I think that in Galicia we should start talking about the expelled Galicia, expelled! because we cannot live in villages that do not have public services, because, in the end, we move to families — and in this case with something as delicate as the health of children — the responsibility of assuming whether they want to live far away or near a health service. What are you going to do? What do most people do? Go, go. Do you want that for the municipalities in the countryside? I don't think so. [[Explained words not perceived.]] Yes, it's a grace, a grace. You can make jokes about this, it's absolutely funny. The parents who took the child from them after they were born to transfer him into an ambulance to Ourense made them very funny, gentlemen of the People's Party; very funny. And that's the situation we have right now. That's what they're being moved to: that they have no right because they live far away, and that mothers are comfortable and, above all, of course, how children are not born, for we better close the service and move everyone to Ourense! Of course, there's not all the services in Ourense hospital either, because we still have no restless pediatric surgery, the midwifery in primary care is nine for the whole province, and the number of pediatricians is in free fall, without taking any kind of measure. That's the situation we have in the province. Why does Mr. Baltar come out contradicting his party? Has a leftist, a public health defender become a dangerous person? Well, we don't know that last one. But why does Mr. Baltar come out? [[Murmurs.]] Because Mr Baltar knows — he lives in Ourense — what happens when you live in rural areas. It doesn't come out because it defends public health now, it doesn't go out because it's left now; it goes out because it lives there, it goes out because it has to listen to its neighbors and neighbors, including its mayors, its mayors and its conciliators. It comes out because living in rural is a right and therefore it comes out timidly because it's a relevant person within the structure of the People's Party and it can't contradict much, but that's the situation we have. That's the situation we have, and instead of going back and assuming that what they did was a mistake, that's wrong, that was premeditated, -- which, by the way, we said here... We don't believe, of course, that the health counsellor is in charge of Verín or Ourense, but it was cheaper not to repose the pediatrician and close the services. It was cheaper not to look for better jobs, better working conditions, better careers for professionals to stay in rural. Because, obviously, if they're going to choose between one center with worse working conditions and another with better conditions, they're going to choose the one with better conditions. If you're going to choose between a center with a better professional scope and a worse one, you'll choose the best one. And, of course, it's obvious that what we have to do is to have responsibility, plan our health services and take over those jobs where professionals are needed. Because if the excuse now is that the professionals retire and don't want to go, what will happen if they retire at the Valdeorras boat? Do we close the services? Do we shut down all the services in the countryside? It's absolutely unacceptable, and I think that instead of continually insulting and hiding behind professionals and women, these people deserve a respect and an apology. What happened this week is absolutely unacceptable. Of course, children are born in law, even if they haven't issued a paper, it doesn't matter. What would happen if the guard judge hadn't taken the phone, had they been busy, had he only had to decide on the professional? What would happen? It's a shame I'm not the health adviser. Did they open a file for that professional? Or would they rather the mother have been sent at risk of giving birth along the way, with the complications that might have arisen along the way? You think you can keep public health services like that? Do you think the rights of children and children — I don't say mothers — can be maintained in these conditions? There's no right, and I think there's a chance that he'd go back, but that he'd actually. They have in the motion the points that we consider to be necessary. We have to equip these squares, we have to provide them with quality, and they have to maintain the overallity of services. Up to three times the pediatrician's retirement was extended; they knew perfectly what was going to happen. We put it in writing, we asked the Health Committee. And nothing happened, there was no danger! And it's not circumstantial, it doesn't happen because it does. It's the same in internal medicine, it's the same in dermatology, it's the same with anesthesia. There's no intention to provide services to rural people because it's considered to be a expense and, therefore, rural people are second-guessers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u140	Thank you, President. Well, from our group, we think we need to talk about two issues. First of all, and being as brief as possible, we will be in favour of the initiative. We believe that the measures proposed have normally been discussed in Commission 5a in a long debate. We've been thinking about some other ones, the group that is proposing, too, and other groups have also proposed others that are of interest. We present this, yes, a amendment, a small add-on with respect to the last point because we agree to demand from the Ministry that effort, but it is true that by 2020 it is already known that the ministry has enabled the largest MIR in history — including the largest MIR in history for Galicia — and also, in particular, the largest number of MIR squares that had never been enabled in Galicia: twenty-seven squares are going to be, a third more than the most qualified year ruling the People's Party in Madrid. So we think it's important to highlight it. And our amendment is that asking for the ministry is good, but it's only for the Board to do its part, which is to call them. Because there is something surprising: we have a shortage of pediatricians but all the possible squares to convene in MIR training were never called. We have a shortage of family doctors and there were no family doctors' squares in MIR; one hundred and fifty were lost. We have a pediatrician deficit and no MIR pediatrician squares were called. So, here goes our amendment. And on the issue that focused on the intervention of the rapporteur, and which is clearly the essential issue of debate, we believe that three questions have to be pointed out. First of all, the closure of the Parish of Verín is a political decision, without any other criterion than the political criterion itself. There is no technical criterion that obliges any decision. There are technical criteria in reports requested by highly contrasted professionals, yes, and there are also very contrasted professionals who would be willing to make other reports and who have expressed their opinion. There are various opinions and, therefore, the situation in which we are in is one that is quite common in political debate, and there is not a single dogmatic decision that is obvious and natural as if it was not possible to contemplate another. There's a decision space and so you have to put a criterion. It is a political decision because if, before making this decision, the People's Party wanted to take any other question — for example, strengthening the parity — it would have technical justification, too, because there are technical justifications for both issues. So it's a purely political decision. And in that approach, what we say is: with those criteria, then we have the obligation to defend the return of service to Verín because, in addition, we will be defending other hospitals. Because there's probably some people who think that Verin's is a brown guy who has to swallow and swallow and that we'll be through, but after Verin there will be more problems because Valdeorras will come, and then Monforte will come, and then the Navy will come, and then Cee will come, and then Barbanza will come, and then Salné will come. And, therefore, to Members and Members who believe that this will not happen to them, I say yes. Because if we support this, if we let Verín's scapegoat close, it'll pass on to others. Firstly, political decision because that is a political criterion, it was a purely political decision. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Secondly, there's a disconnection with such enormous reality that there has been a conflict basically because of that, besides because the decision is horrible, but mainly because of the ways in which it was taken; the ways in which they responded to the reactions of the citizenry, with a manager and a counselor practically insulting people and telling professionals that they were not valid, that they had no expertise. They were experimenting with what happens if we close a mating and exploded, and you weren't ready for these actions, they didn't count on this. Two days before this decision, they said they'd expand services in Verín. Enlarging services is not to make the bathroom bigger. You said you'd expand services and actually you were experimenting with the situation and exploded in their faces. And thirdly, there's a dangerous argument -- it's said here. First of all, he appealed to security, to the policy of fear — a tremendous fear because it is a security on a vital issue. But, curiously, when Mr. Feijó's thing began to try to go back, the solution was already the number of professionals. But the security problem wasn't the number of births? Because security was because there weren't enough births, but then the problem was staff. And then, before the square is settled, mothers can give birth but under their responsibility, which is a barbarity, and I really hope — I had to read it three times — that they can correct me and that Mr. Feijóo didn't say so. If you say that mothers can go to poison under your responsibility, it's an absolute barbarity and, in addition, there are people here who I'm sure you share it. It was so easy to rectify, so easy... it's always complicated, but it was easy because the event would be perceived as a circumstantial disconnection of the board but the rectification would be understood. You're making an impossible balance of being okay but keeping the decision, because you don't want to solve it. They had a problem in Vienna with the management of that service, and instead of solving it, they closed it. That's the problem of politics: when someone's dedicated to going through problems and not transforming reality to move them. You don't look for solutions; you're looking for excuses, and that's a disastrous way to solve a problem like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u141	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, if the president of the board insulted the Verín professionals, you've also insulted the forty-four Ourense Hospital professionals who signed the document they signed and you don't want to recognize. Well, the People's Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment to this motion which has three parts: demands to the Union, demands to the central government and parliamentary recognition to professionals working in rural areas, especially those in difficult-covered squares. And what do we ask the board? We ask you to give priority to the nearest health care but with a guarantee of quality and safety and always supported by scientific evidence and professional opinions. We ask you to maintain your commitment to health care in Verín and to open up the possibility of recovery of the uritory if the safety requirements are met and the pediatric facilities convened for this hospital are covered. And we also ask him to complete the service portfolio at the Summer Hospital with infrastructure, equipment, personnel and services: with a good, appropriate emergency service, and, for example, with the extension of home hospitalization, which we believe is really already a need in the Italian countryside for the age of our population and for the geographical dispersion we have. What do we ask the Ministry? We ask the Ministry to increase the MIR pediatrics squares — then I will explain how. We also ask you to allow these MIRs to be rotated in comarcial hospitals, and we ask you to modify the real decree of employment of residents — the MIRs — to allow for the formalization of stable contracts when they are completed. It doesn't come at the initiative, but we always ask for the replacement rate and the increase in the approval of foreign professionals. With regard to the first point of your initiative, Mrs Solla, we have discussed this matter in this House thousands of times. You know perfectly well the figures of the annual OPEs, the stabilisation plan, the continuity contract, the extension of retirement age, the career and the open and permanent transfer contest. They are all measures already in place to improve health quality, health employment and the reconciliation of working and family life. With regard to the last point of your initiative, from the MIR squares, we agree with the spirit of increasing the MIR pediatrics squares, but we believe that it should be coordinated from the Ministry that is being done in all autonomous communities. Why? Because if an autonomous community does not convene the squares, the residents of that region will go to other autonomous communities and, as soon as they finish, they will have much more ease to return to their community of origin. So, if all are coordinated and the Ministry is responsible for coordinating the pediatrics squares — which is essentially what we are talking about today — it is much easier for these residents to stay here in our autonomous community. Galicia compromises the convening of all pediatrics squares, all MIR squares, but we believe that the other communities have to do so as well. Paediatric surgery: it's working twenty-four hours on the seven-day day of the week. Until November of this year there were 141 surgical interventions at Ourense Hospital. You'll understand that it's very difficult to increase the pediatric surgeon's staff with those figures because no professional will want to go to a hospital where he's going to do thirty or forty annual surgeries. I think that's clear. Well, and you base your statements on the closure of the birthplace of Verín or on that alleged disappearance of pediatric emergencies in different fallacies. First, economic cuts. It's very difficult that there are economic cuts when the three Xinecology squares, the five madron squares, and two Paediatric squares are held. They are with interim contracts - there is Mr Villares - and you all know that the interim contracts are indefinite and that the square can only be covered later by contest-opposition; these pediatrics are interinternal contracts. It seems impossible to maintain something that didn't exist: there were no pediatric emergencies in the hospital and there have been none since the year 2006, when the last pediatrician in the staff board disappeared. I'm not going to say who ruled in 2006 because he fucks with me on the left bench. [[Murmurs.]] In 2006, the last pediatrician square in the staff board disappeared. [[Murmurs.]] They were only cared for by delivery emergencies by a primary pediatrician but there was no hospital emergency service. I saw it had no health area of its own and then everything about the amendment of the Health Act does not affect Verín in this case because that amendment, which is the cause of all the ills of the Greek health!, does not affect in this case. There are few pediatricians in Galicia: new fallacy. In Galicia, almost 90 percent of primary children are cared for by pediatricians. We've already talked about communities that have forty, thirty-five and thirty percent of their boys being cared for by family doctors, who are well-trained, but that's not the case with Galicia. There are many localities in Galicia with an isochronus, with a distance above the distance from Verín: sixty-five municipalities. There are sixty-five municipalities in Galicia that are now beyond their reference hospital for births than Verín is. And what's the difference between Verín and the other Welsh comarcas hospitals? Of course, at all but in Verín there are pediatricians in the staff box, and not in Verín. The boat, for example, has pediatricians in the staff box and, in addition, is at a distance that makes it necessary to ensure the care of childbirth. It has nothing to do with the distance of the boat from Verín to Ourense. Besides, you do not only claim two pediatricians for Verín, you do not; you claim two pediatricians for at least two different municipalities at each health committee meeting. Let's add, how many would it take? What's covered and not covered? And we're not talking about replacing squares anymore, we're not talking about what happens in summer. Ladies and gentlemen, a total of nine medical sites were convened for the Vienna Hospital this year: one in Dermatology, two in Pediatrics, two in Surgery, three in Traumatology and one in Endocrinology. And do you know how many were covered? One of endocrine and two of trauma. At the Valdeorras Boat Hospital, nine squares were convened this year and four were covered. Last Thursday, 15 other squares were published in the DOG. In Verín, one of Traumatology and the two of Pediatrics again, to see if they're covered; in the boat, four new; in the CHUO, eight new squares. Six squares have recently been stabilized at the Hospital de Verín: one of the midwives, one of the nurses, one of the physiotherapists, two of the technicians in auxiliary nursing care and one of the janitors. Is this really leaving Ourense province?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u144	This is dismantling the comarcas? I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, we trust the support of the groups to our amendment. It's realistic, it's nothing demagogic and it fits the reality of the situation of comarcal hospitals due to the deficit of professionals in different specialties that we're going through. It's over, Mr. President. Let me do this with the words that the president of the Medical College of Ourenses, who is not suspicious of the Popular Party, refers to the closure of the Parish in an interview in a newspaper. He says, "Party or corporate interests and localisms must move away to cast solidly and guarantee the common goal of making our magnificent public health sustainable. It's time to stop using health care as partisan propaganda or electoral ammunition." For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u145	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u146	Well, on a day like today when we talk about pediatrics, it's obvious we're talking about Verín. And the first thing to say to Mr. Feijóo today is that if women in public health, in public hospitals, we have to give birth under our responsibility, because then he will have to resign and cease the high positions of the Health Council because he obviously refuses to govern. Because public health is to guarantee services. But let's talk about pediatrics. The situation of the pediatrician deficit in our country — which has already been discussed on numerous occasions — has not ceased to worsen, which means that in practice not all the children of Greece can have the same way of access to this basic service. This is evident in rural areas, and in a region like Verín we're seeing it. What are the underlying reasons? They have also been discussed on numerous occasions here: lack of planning, not creation in advance of the necessary MIR squares, lack of design of this basic network of health services suitable for reality by comarcas. Of course, of course, we have to plan well this distribution of professionals for comarcas, but we have to do it fairly and take into account also one question: increasing public transport services in rural areas. The result is that a dozen or 13 percent of primary-care pediatrics are covered by family doctors — Mr.Núñez Centeno pointed out almost 90. The figure already indicates the pediatric societies that may be even greater than that 12 or 13 percent of pediatrics not covered by specialists. Logically — here we want to point this out too — this also results in job stress due to the saturation of consultations, as it reaches an average of half a hundred children per day, when the recommended ratio is of twenty-five patients. This is also treating rural professionals well. We could quote a series of places that account for the geography of the pediatrician deficit: the mountain of Lugo, Trives, Chantada, Ferrol and Fene, Dear, The Morrazo, Barriers, Vigo, Mañón and Ortigueira, Mondariz-Balneario, Cuntis, Ribadavia, Catóira, The Tea Land... They are numerous and are just a sample of all the problems that come to us in the form of citizens' petitions to Commission 5th. But the reality -- and this is to be said -- is also that there are private consultations, but there is also immigration. It is something we have also spoken about in this parliament on numerous occasions. Because the reality is that it has increased the number of applications from health professionals to approve titles abroad and that one of the specialties that these approvals require most is precisely pediatrics. And more importantly, it's mostly given to professionals under thirty-five years old. So the solutions must pass, as the motion proposes — and as has been proposed on many occasions here — by labour stability, by creating squares with good working conditions. And we know it's a problem at the state level, that we have to act also at the state level by betting heavily on the rise in MIR squares, but also that when these pediatricians are formed, then we have to do the consolidation of those professionals so they can work in the country. And we also add that there is a need to boost labour stabilization in rural areas, to compensate for the greatest difficulties we have in rural areas for the provision of services. In certain areas, this plus may have to be given, this positive discrimination on the part of professionals. And this has got to be a lot to do with Verín because, in the end, in Verín, it turns out that the technical arguments — as the rapporteur said, they didn't get us that document -- changed. Now it turns out that the problem is the government's inability to cover the pediatrics squares in Verín. I'm not even able to apply the mechanisms available to assist the service with regard to the local guards. But it is also now that we have added a more dispurpose — as I have already said and as the companions and the companion who preceded me have said — that is to put responsibility on women themselves, to play with the fear of the women of the Verín district and tell them: for if you want to be born in Verín, under your responsibility. It can't be. We must tackle this problem seriously, and these public job offers that are marked must be made effective because the reality is that we never get to that call for all the necessary places. But we're also talking about this motion that Ourense is a province structurally punished in the field of public health: pediatric surgery in the CHUO, it's also worth recalling here the absence of hemodynamics 24 hours, which exists in the rest of the provinces — in Lugo it was achieved but after a long battle of citizens and professionals—. In the end, according to EOXI's manager too, it would result in births to Vigo; Ourense capital Vigo, will end up being. What we say is, we have to guarantee services all over the country. On Saturday we have a meeting of several municipal groups of the interior depopulated Greek, from Vilarino de Conso to Rodeiro, where we are going to demand this in San Juan de Río: public services throughout the country because we are not second-rate citizens or second-rate women who stop in rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u147	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u148	Mr. Centeno, we're talking about 2006 and who governed in 2006 whenever you want. But we speak with all the letters, not to manipulate the reality of pediatric care in the region of Monterrey. We recall, for example, that great invention of the health foundations sponsored by the People's Party and what Mr. Núñez Feijóo had much to do with. We remember that the Vienna Hospital had to be rescued. When we want to rescue that, we remove all the hemerotheque and we remove all the archives; whenever they want. [[Applause]] Because, of course, if somewhere was the Galego Nationalist Block yesterday and today it was aside to maintain public health and to maintain the best possible service in this area of the country. Try to find the excuses you want, but of course, it's already getting more and more late for them to rectify. And the sooner they make it more yawning it'll be for you, because your lies are not sustained over time. First they taught that policy of fear, as we have already reported here. First, before, they lied, even a few weeks earlier; we talked about it in the previous plenary. On November 13 we asked Mr. Almuína and he apologized. We told him directly that this was his roadmap: taking out births and pediatrics from the Summer Hospital to progressively convert that hospital into a large health center. He denied it, and not ten days later you were doing this. First, thinking that I was going to get that excuse that they were absolutely objective criteria. As if we were all idiots; as if we could not continue to read that 2009 manual of what Mrs Solla was talking about and that we read here the other day; as if we could not compare the data with other comarcal hospitals; as if we could not see the opinion of the most professional in this country — which is not just three, that there are many more—. First they tried to take our hair, see if... These rural people, these poor women, bah!, take that argument and, out of fear, take this decision. But look, I told you and I'm going to say it again: in this country, the region of Verín, the rural people and the women of this country aren't afraid. And it won't work either that strategy they're trying to... Well, now we're going to assume it's a missing issue for pediatricians and we're not going to apologize because, why? We're the rule of sovereignty, we're not going to make a mistake in our lives. And then we have more arguments to follow this road map. But it won't allow society, because you're the one who undervalued this country's self-critical capacity, but this debate is already a debate on rights, rural rights and women's rights. It's not a technical matter, it's a fully political decision and they don't fool anyone anymore. So what they should do is adjust. Because, besides, people are sick because it rains on wet, because it's radically lying they bet on this hospital. Because this morning we were talking about some groups presenting amendments to improve the allocations of the Verín County Hospital. That's for something, not because we had. We spent a day in Verín and we wanted to name the hospital! No, that's not why. It is that the very manifestation of the 30th day itself was already called by the problems with Dermatology, because they were being derived and are being derived from Ourense, because there were problems with the anesthetists, with the surgical block, with lots of questions. Also with home hospitalization, which you know the replacement of the palliative system has caused a lot of problems. They also read what the professionals say, what Dr. Quintas says — that he has been here this morning too, mobilising himself — about what is now the attention to a terminal patient living in Cualedro. It's just that the problem is much deeper than the propaganda you're trying to put on the table. The bottom line is that this is a schedule programmed, hidden, but more and more samples are out. And that's the same debate we were talking about today in the morning: it's the calculated roadmap that the public is getting less and more weight and the private one. And here's the health data, and here's the result on the territory. That's why it's not a lack of management or a lack of planning that you weren't doing a serious policy from Madrid as well as the renewal of professionals for each of the specialties. I'm convinced that was fully meant. And the roadmap is to take advantage of that now, in fact, there are many problems with pediatricians because they are also forced into a labour policy that is negligent to inscrutable displacements. We recall again in this Parliament that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia had to tell the Council of Galicia that from Valdeorras to Ourense it does not arrive in 20 minutes. You can't have a guard located and sleeping in your home if you're a pediatrician in Ourense, and evaporate and appear at the Valdeorras Hospital, or at the Verín Hospital. Things don't work that way. So stop making excuses. And what's the big deal is that the president of the board of Galicia says: "Well, women, under their responsibility. But what do you think? Women in this country have long been older. But what is that irresponsible to say: under your responsibility? There is a public responsibility to uphold that conquered right, which is public health. Have a little shame, listen to the people's strength this morning in the streets of this city. [[Applause]] That as much as we're here in an almost curated camera, that's the reality, that's the demand. And what you have to do is listen to something more than yourself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, it doesn't matter what they're apologizing, it doesn't matter what they're apologizing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u150	They don't have the power to keep us from telling what we think and what a lot of people think in this parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Presas, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u152	If you have any problems, Mrs. Novoa, let them make you a spokesman for this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u153	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u154	Maybe the problem is your responsibility of conscience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u155	Mrs. Presas, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u156	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support; we will accept the amendment of the PSdEG. And with regard to the amendment of the People's Party, I think it's a joke, and I tell it sincerely. The element of residents and residents could debate it and even reach an agreement. It will certainly have to be discussed at the Congress of Members and Members at the same time because, indeed, it is a problem that needs to be addressed. But the rest of the points, Mr. Centeno, what do you want me to tell you? Things you've announced you're going to do here to justify that you don't assume what to do, that it's to keep the parlor and the services of the Verín Hospital open. That's the reality; therefore, they didn't laugh at us. They didn't laugh at us and, above all, they didn't laugh at those people who were outside today. It's good they didn't even go out and greet them, it's good they didn't go out and talk to them, but, man!, pose things that you've already announced even in the full past, like expanding the emergencies, services that have to be universal throughout the territory of Greece, and saying they're going to put them in Verín, man!, it was just missing. Only the health exclusion was missing! Look, the arguments that have been made here that elsewhere are worse than ever, I'm not even going to address them. It seems to me that you and the president of the board have the opportunity — and tomorrow's debate continues — to apologize, because error can also be resolved by putting the service back on track. That's the reality. So, therefore, in the face of this situation, we believe that there are many elements and services to address, but we are willing to negotiate a proposal for this non-law proposition. But let's deal with the text that you defend in the House of Ourense, with that text that asks you to keep the services and keep the wall open. Sit down, it's half an hour. I withdraw all points from our initiative if you vote in favour and we keep that point. Because, what's going on? That in the House of Ourense you can vote in favour of keeping the parlor open but not here. [[Applause]] Or what are you going to do in two days in full? What are you going to do with that motion you've submitted? That's the situation. And, therefore, you have the opportunity to amend your position. Let's remove the rest of the points. We'll talk about pediatric surgery. We'll talk about the MIR. We'll talk about the rest of the matter. We can put in other non-law proposals, but make sure they won't withdraw services from the Verín Hospital, which will provide the current services, which will keep the parlor open. Because what happened this week can't happen again. It's absolutely cruel to transfer responsibility to mothers and parents — especially mothers — and to separate a mother from her newborn. You have the responsibility, it's not from getting what's going on. They apologize and review your motion; we have half an hour to compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the government in relation to climate change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u158	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this motion:Additional AmendmentAdd two points with the following text:"6. Send to parliament, for debate and approval, the Galician Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050 and the First Operational Plan for the Development and Implementation of Strategy7. To create a crisis committee in the face of climate emergency, with the participation of representatives of all administrations, with the aim of setting priorities and promoting action lines and measures to address climate emergencies."]] Mrs Vilán has the floor to defend the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u159	Thank you, President. Good night. At COP25 these last fifteen days, there were two words that were spoken by everyone: time ran away. We're going very slowly and we don't have time to tackle the problem that comes to us. Because the planet will continue to exist; what is in danger is the human species as we know it. The shame was that the U.S., China, India, Russia leaders, who are the most polluting, don't think the same thing or, if they think so, prefer to defend industry and defend emissions. The result was a very weak call for more ambitious efforts against the climate crisis. UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres himself said the international community was losing an opportunity of greater ambition. They only signed eighty-four countries. Germany, France, Spain and the United Kingdom too, for example and therefore the European Union is on that line in the world. The European Union has a special pact, the Green New Deal, which Poland wants to blow. And that, according to Avaaz's last poll for Poland, seven out of ten Poles want their government to support the European Union's climate neutrality by 2050, and eighty-one percent of the Poles support this European pact. There we spoke of climate shelters, the nitrogen of the extreme right in all countries, which also has to do with those climate shelters that are coming and that are increasing the extreme right, the threat to democracy, therefore, of the revolution of sustainability. And it's not things that happen to me, it's things that scientists said they were at the top of the climate. That new social contract is an opportunity to build a fairer and more sustainable economy and society. What is this Green New Deal of the European Union? For most of all, by raising the emission reductions to 55% by 2030 and thus achieving carbon neutrality in 2050. This will involve reviewing all the regulations adopted over the last few years to distribute the efforts, including the 2050 Climate Change Strategy of the Galician Union. All countries that sign it — Spain is prepared to sign that pact — must submit emission cuts plans. This climate neutrality involves measures such as decarbonisation, sustainable transport, a strategy for agriculture and the change of industrial sectors. It implies the existence of a transitional fund, with a share of structural funds, with advantages, with the intervention of the European Investment Bank, which will mobilize or aspire to mobilise a quantity which can around EUR 100 billion between the years 2021 and 2027 to help precisely those countries that are most affected by decarbonisation. And in the European Union with that idea, there will be a new industrial strategy, based on renewable energy, on the rapid elimination of coal and efforts to decarbonize gas, thus reviewing all the energy regulations already in June 2021. And we're going very slowly and we're going late. That's what we're talking about in our motion. We're also talking about self-consumption. There's no government and, as long as there's no government, the Climate Change Act and the National Auto-Consumption Strategy are stopped; the Ecological Transition Strategy, too. For this future national self-consumption strategy, which goes very slow — not because of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, but because of the People's Party's decision to charge that tax to the sun; there are other countries that go a little faster than Spain, because they never had that decision, is already responsible for a study that makes an analysis of self-consumption based on consumer types, and will serve as a fundamental tool for alleviating energy poverty and as a measure of competitiveness for agriculture and industry. And in Galicia what? For there is scientific information — I will now refer to them — that says that we will be one of the most affected areas in Europe by the climate crisis; I repeat: one of the most punished areas in Europe by the climate crisis. The Climate Crisis Report, of Galicia's 2012-2015 climate change, endorsed by the Environmental Council, said that by the middle of the century, most of Galicia will have an increase in temperatures between 2oC and 3oC and the southernmost and easternmost barges will overcome those three degrees. The increase in warm nights, now around 5%, is going to be between 20% and 30% in the middle of the century. Precipitation will decrease between 10% and 15% in the interior, between 5% and 10% in the coast points; in the summer it will fall more than 35%. The number of rain days is going to decrease by about one month each year. In addition, there is a report from the European Union - Climate change. Impacts and vulnerability in Europe - which says that the extreme heat will increase by about a week over the year, which is expected on the horizon of 2100, at the end of the century, a drop of rainfall of more than 40%, one of the highest in continental Europe, and that on the coast — we have seen a lot of forecast maps of what will happen on the coast of Greece — will increase from mid-century more than half a metre on the coast and much of the coastal Galician villages will suffer temporary or continuous shocks followed; the Grove will again be a very likely island. The Sustainability Observatory, in its last report, says the following: mussel bats are now about 20% less productive, especially those in the Arousa River, and since 1965 the number of days in which the presence of toxic phytoplant does not allow mexillions to be captured. There's a significant increase in tropical and subtropical fish on our backs, the fish that come from cold zones came down and the capture of dust and sardines also descended. The yellow climate will be mediterranized, the fires will be faster and more intense and will consume more organic matter in the soil, exacerbating the erosion effects, and the changes in the temperature can negatively affect the quality of the wine. This looks like Orson Welles when I was talking about who was coming and people were scared. But these are scientific data, it's not something I come here to tell anyone to alarm. And in the meantime, what? While you act like Poland, you look at Poland, which seems to be your reference. The Industry Advisor said the other day that energy policy must be at the service of industrial policy and the Environment Adviser said here the other day that economic development was compatible through coal with the sustainability and climate neutrality. Galicia is in carriage of goods by train at 5%; Spain at 2030 will be at 20%. In emissions we are not even half the European Union forecast, we are one of the five autonomous communities that most greenhouse gases emitted to the atmosphere between 1990 and 2018. And in waste, I've already told you the other day that we have to be in 2020 at 50% in urban areas and that in 2017 we were at 15%. I say it again: Galicia will be one of the most punished European areas by the climate crisis. I just gave the data. Fifteen days ago, the advisor said Galicia was the solution. The problem is that, in the fear that they have voting green, all they do is just do is just do gardening. We remember that picture: garden hoses to put out the fires. We don't want to be like Poland, in the Socialist Group, we don't want to be like Poland. We want to be in any case like France, like the United Kingdom or Germany, which, despite having a situation like Poland, decided something else completely different. That's why we have registered this motion, which we hope can be approved today. We call for an immediate action against climate change, with co-financing, which has five points: to go to the emission limits that have just marked the European Union, not less than half; to approve a German plan for transition to clean energy that is fair and that does not leave anyone behind; to promote a study to ensure the effects of climate change on key sectors in Galicia, mainly in the agribusiness — and I am thinking about the wine area for example—; to create a work table on light pollution; or to reform the Greek taxation so that it will be true that the principle of 'the polluter pays'. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u161	Good morning; I don't know when it starts here at night and at dawn, but, well, it's already time. About climate change and emergency I think there are two clear conclusions. The first one, which is a great threat, and also that there is a great fraud in all the public debate that is taking place. And we saw a clear example in these days at the COP in Madrid, a very clear example already beginning with the fact that they were the sponsors of this meeting, nothing more and nothing less than great defenders and protectors of the environment, of nature, of the planet like Iberdrola or Endesa, who already put it there for you, you and the planet. We're all at ease, because we're certainly in good hands. It also lends itself to the autobomb and marketing, starting with the Spanish Government itself, who made a pamphlet there telling all the wonders that they were doing in the Spanish State in this regard, and following the mayor of Madrid, who also became a world champion of the fight against climate change. Here we could include Real Madrid, which has put on a green shirt as well. I don't know what the Celt is doing, Mr. Mouriño, who's doing that sustainable project of sports city too in Mos, how it doesn't change the sky for green; I think that's a good example of environmental engagement. The Sportsman, who is in low hours, could also do it; even Pontevedra will change the grenade. Green is what's fashionable. What are they doing? What are they thinking? What has become clear to us, too, in this great fraud, is that governments and large corporations — as we have said here on numerous occasions — are the great responsible and guilty. Because here we have to talk less about the consequences, which are very clear, and we have to talk more about the culprits, the responsible ones, who are selling them to us now that they are the great saviors of the planet, those who are causing the policy and the depredation, because that's the essence of capitalism -- we've also said it here many times -- in the exploitation of resources, people and people, for a single interest in achieving the greatest benefit, because these big corporations don't think about the planet in 2030, they think about their results, they think about their balance, and, if they think about 2030 and 2030, it's about how they can get their performance precisely to climate emergency, how they can do business. And for that, there are also lobbyists, such as the one known as Global Adaptation Committee, led by Ban Ki-moon and Bill Gates among others, who are analyzing the amount of business that will be generated, over seven billion euros, with climate change, with the fight against climate change. But they say one thing: yes, yes, this is the business that companies can do, but before they have to make governments investments for more than a billion euros so then we can do business. So, of course, it always wins the same thing. Not to mention the perverse business of the emissions market, which turned out to be a failure, which led to the massive laundering of black money and also to scandalous tax fraud. And what does Joina do? So the Union has no strategy, it has no direction, it has no priorities, it doesn't want, can't, doesn't know, doesn't do, or, if it does, it does everything else that should be done to fight climate change, and we have examples. It's an absolute incoherence, because you're putting something in the Welsh Strategy of Climate Change and Energy 2050, and you're putting the opposite, or something that has nothing to do with the plan, the circular economy strategy or the sustainable development goals. He's a real headless man. There's no address. You have a half-way -- I've also told you here many times -- of climate change in the Environmental Council. This is not an environmental issue, this is an entire environmental issue, you don't understand it, it's a government-wide matter, you have to create a government-wide delegation for climate change, it can't be a sectoral matter. Of course, I'm not surprised it creeps when the Director General comes here to Parliament, because, of course, what they're doing is not strange to me. We could set examples of forest policy, soil policy, water policy, energy policy, mobility policy, waste policy. What you put here falls out of your hands. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] They speak of 1,250 million investments in the 2023 operational plan. You know what's the biggest game? The fight against fires: 250 million. This is a funnel, you can't call it any other way. And that's why we support the measures proposed here. There is one, that working group on light pollution, which we propose to coordinate — this is a chascarrillo — the mayor of Vigo or the mayor of Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u163	In any case, we have tabled amendments to which we propose that the strategy of climate change should go through this parliament, because they have to debate here, they cannot kidnap this debate of Parliament, they have to come to Parliament on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u164	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u165	Thank you, President. Good evening, good night now, all of you. The fight against climate change is an urgent necessity and climate change is a problem that already affects all of us, but to combat it we have to act on a local scale, as many organisms recognize. Climate change will have, and is already having, important consequences on health, both on environmental health and on people's health, and it already constitutes, according to the World Health Organization, a emerging threat to all of these. Ecosystems, understood as the combination of the physical and biological components of a environment, form complex sets that all act in themselves as a unit. Its maintenance is essential for people's health. Its base is biodiversity, and includes, among others, the availability of water, food production, pest control, elements all necessary to preserve our health and well-being. Human intervention is changing — and very seriously — all these ecosystems, destroying all biodiversity and polluting the natural environment. UNESCO itself estimates that more than one million species are currently in danger of extinction. And we came from COP25, that peak made with lots of money and little heart, and at the same time it also took place the Social Cumio by Climate, that peak made with a lot of heart and very little means. The Galician Union must cooperate with society, not with megaminery companies, in making decisions. You cannot disconnect the location of decision-making from whom you will have to suffer afterwards its own consequences. And it's true that things have to be done right, but to change the climate, the system needs to be changed, and the Galician Union today is not for that. We need a model that revolutionizes all this to bring about a change of power that leads to a change of system. We must start a revolution in transport, we must start a revolution in industry, in construction, in employment, an energy transition, an agricultural transition. We have to change the models, we have to change the forest model we have today in Galicia, we have to change the food model. This country needs to adapt the territories, our specific regions, to climate change. We must protect the most vulnerable populations, create practices and tools for resilience and resistance to the impact of climate change. And the Galician Union must ensure that social justice is present in the solutions it proposes. The current economic system, in addition to causing climate change, has also caused levels of extreme poverty, hunger and inequality. There was talk here of colonialism that has prevailed over these years, and that is still in force today, and it is the poorest countries that are suffering the great threats to climate change. In Galicia, energy, for example, is a business; the forest model is a business. Energy is not considered a human right. Here, when someone can't pay the receipt of light, cut it off and ready. The electric oligopolie managed to get the Greek Government to legislate in favor of many cases of their interests, hampering even the development of renewable and self-consumption energy. We need to consume less energy, we need to consume it in a planned way, we need to demand public control of energy to prioritize the uses that benefit people and not businesses. The transition can not only be from sources, it has to be from the model itself. And to implement them, it is essential that public intervention is always involved, something which in this parliament in many cases shines because of its absence. We agree with the Socialist Party's non-law proposal. Point number one, we see it with some fear. It is true that we have to accept this agreement, but, well, an agreement by the European Parliament, and often the policies that have emerged from these bodies have been the cause that we are sending these amounts of CO2 to the atmosphere. We see it all right. Impulse a study to ensure the effects of the climate crisis, too. Create a work table for reducing light pollution in Galicia, too. And point 5 we see it more than necessary: we need to reform the taxation of Greece in order to encourage changes and here what contaminates our means of payment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. For the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u167	Thank you, President. Good evening and night to all and to all. Well, at the top of the climate, we can say what we all already suspected: that the top failed, it was a real failure. A failure that is unable to address fundamental issues, such as reducing CO2 emissions to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees, regulating global carbon markets and creating a green fund. But what if you got COP25, as Mr Bará pointed out, served as a face-washer for the main leaders of this situation, for the most polluting companies and for those responsible for us in that situation, and also served for something else: it served to leave a bigger carbon footprint, with the travel of delegations from 200 countries who traveled leaving carbon footprints to absolutely no agreement. I think it would only be for the next Clima Summit those countries that haven't thought about taking any commitments at least don't contaminate with their travels by advertising and propaganda. I think it's the least we could have demanded from them. As indicated by the European Environment Agency, Spain is the most vulnerable country in the context of climate change, and in this context Galicia presents a number of elements that also make it especially vulnerable in the face of this situation, but it also has excellent potential to address with solvency a necessary and profound ecological transition in industry, agriculture, energy and transport. The environmental management carried out in Galicia in recent decades has increased this vulnerability. After years of continued negationism, the consequences agronomic in the form of multiple environmental problems, which require profound change in public policies. Although nominally — we have said so many times — the People's Party no longer dares to deny climate change, it remains unaware of the responsibility it entails in the Government and the need to amend all these predatory policies of the environment, which have brought us to this situation. We must act immediately, and that is why we welcome today's initiative of the Socialist Party. We always say this: all those initiatives that are in the direction of dealing with climate and environmental emergencies will be supported by our group. Reduce CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030 to achieve the neutral carbon economy for this year, assuming the agreement approved in the European Parliament, already means a minimum agreement, it is already a minimum agreement, and it is already risky to reach this situation. It's the least we can do. We can't leave it to infinity. The People's Party always leaves for later everything that has to do with coping with environmental problems. A situation with which only companies win and only those most polluting companies benefit. Citizenship loses, you lose, too, and above all, generations to come. Mrs Vilán — and I would like to highlight this — said that, according to the reports of the European Environment Agency, following this rate of growth and increase in climate in the next few decades, in the next eighties in Galicia 40% of rainfall will be lost, 40% of rainfall in the next eighties. This, coupled with the systemic contamination of water resources in Galicia, about the maximum of those who pollute themselves become millionaires, puts us in a situation where life itself is at risk, and we want to know what the plan of the People's Party is. If he does not face the necessary energy transition, fundamentally — not just — if the aggressions of water resources continue, what is the plan when we have a situation of supply problems? Make a transvase? And what do we do with the transvase? Because there won't be any water. I don't know what the solution you've been voting for is. As I say, as in Galicia the polluter becomes millionaire, we also like point 5, to apply the necessary fiscal reform to apply once again the principle that "the polluter pays", which obviously cannot replace policies for the elimination of pollution outbreaks, but must apply where it occurs. So we will support this initiative, and make the warning that tomorrow can be late, and, as I say a documentary I recommend to all: if we don't act, our children will accuse us. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u168	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u169	Good afternoon, gentlemen. It seems we all agree today that at least COP25 was at least disappointing. I said Mrs. Vilan: time ran away, time passed. Of course, some of the things that do are to watch time pass. I suppose you, when you talk to the environmental prosecutor about the acts of the Socialist Party, what they do is just watch the time pass. We are more than the deed, not the word, to do and not to speak, not to waste time continuously, nor to be turning around to what we all already have, where there is already a consensus. [[Applause]] There is a consensus not only that there is climate change, that we must fight it, but that we must take action. Today we're going to talk about what the Galician Union is doing, but we can also talk about what mayors are doing and what commitment mayors have. Here, as Mr Bará said, we have one who is the champion precisely of incoherence and to do the opposite of what he later said at the summit. Titles about COP25. The country, for example: "Deception. Cumio de Madrid can't strengthen climate commitments." The World: "A Disappointing Cement of Climate." The Reason: "Madrid COP25, expected failure." The Voice of Galicia: "The longest peak in history fails by weak agreement." Ladies and gentlemen, why is there this generalized feeling of disappointment, of missed opportunity? First, because the results of the summit are insufficient to deal with the climate crisis and disappointing because expectations were higher; because very important measures were postponed and major decisions had to be taken; because of not developing Article 6 of the Paris Summit on the emission rights market; because of the lack of commitment of the four countries responsible for 55% of the emissions; and because it was also, ladies, as Mr Bará and Mr Cal rightly said here — which we seem to coincide once again — the summit of the eco-coposphere, of the hyperbole, of the partisan instrumentation, of the green watching. So, after the summit in our country, a new definition was coined, which was the "Falcon effect." And what is it, ladies and gentlemen, the "Falcon effect"? Step into the main part at an electric car summit, set two minutes for the camera and get out the back door in Falcon. That's what's now known as Falcon Effect all over the world. [[Applause]] And the Falcon effect is what happens to the opposition here in Galicia sometimes. Ladies and gentlemen, over two years has been the Greek society developing the Strategy for Climate Change, 690 people working everywhere, in the most important participatory process of our community, in which you, gentlemen, did not want to contribute anything, nor did you want to work in the public exhibition period. We're one of the only four communities with a Climate Change Strategy. In the last decade our community has reduced emissions, while others, such as Extremeura, where socialists rule, have increased them by 50%. The opposition did not even want to support our motion for a resolution in the state debate of Autonomy to declare the state of climate emergency in our community. And just, ladies and gentlemen, when COP25 is celebrated, the opposition disqualifies these 690 people and they want us to disregard this work that they've done for two years and adopt their occurrences and improvisations. Mr Bará says that this is kidnapping the role of Parliament. Mr Bará, is that you have a very special concept of participation, is that you are all that participation in which you do not participate do not respect it. 690 people, representing trade unions, representing companies, universities, research centres, the media, have been working. What is it, Mr. Bará? That the only participatory process you like is where you say who has to participate. "Falcon effect." They didn't say anything all these years and just coincide with COP25, they record initiatives, motions, all kinds of non-law propositions, with the only purpose of doing what they do, taking the picture, pretending to care what they really don't care about. Then there are such ridiculous things as going to the presentation of this strategy, an act that lasted four hours and where the entire Greek society was represented (unions, companies, communicators, teachers, researchers, many of whom participated in the elaboration of the strategy, others not), and the only thing we're left with is a phrase that we don't like, which causes some shame away from these ridiculous attacks of mojigateria. But, look, at the Madrid summit, there was also a very positive conclusion to Galicia. In the Chile-Madrid agreement Time to act, it is confirmed that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u170	It takes three seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u171	...we're working in the right direction. Apostate for a fair and orderly transition process, as our strategy does. It apostates by transversality, as our strategy does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u173	It defends the role of research and scientific solutions, as our strategy does, in the face of influencers, in the face of occurrences, in the face of those initiatives that you have without any scientific basis. And demand greater ambition. With our strategy, we add to the countries and regions that take on the commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u174	He's here for today. Come on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u175	...before 2050. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u177	...Galice will add to the objectives of the European Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u178	Come on, man, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Vilan, from the scene? No, come here. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, come on, three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u180	I want to begin my intervention by thanking the BNG Group, the Joint Group and the Joint Left Group for their support for this motion. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the disappointment... indeed, the summit was disappointing, just as disappointing as you were today, because you will not vote in favour of this motion. The disappointment is exactly the same. You — I say again — are going to be like Poland, but also like Russia, like China, like India and like the United States, who have decided that they do not want to take the measures we call for today in our motion. [[Murmurs.]] And — it is true — we speak to everyone — you should do the same, even to the environmental prosecutor, who would learn a lot more than you know. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] They should talk more to everyone. [[Applause]] So what happens to them with Verin, with all those people... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u182	...these thousands of people who were outside today, those who didn't even dare to go out and talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u183	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u184	If it was all so bad...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u185	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u186	...that of the climate summit, Mr. Trenor, I don't know what the environmental advisor was, because she could have stayed in Galicia instead of going there, we don't know very well what, to participate in that I don't know how much you just told us? The problem -- it's true -- is that we have a strategy of climate change, the problem is that it's absolutely resounding, that's the problem of its climate change strategy: it's resease, it's resense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u187	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u188	It's not even half the European Union's emission reduction, which is leading right now in the fight against climate change. And you say that, with that strategy, as we don't agree with her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u189	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u190	...we're just 690 people who participated. You're despising the thousands of people who voted for all the groups that we're on the opposing sides. Every day they despise those thousands of Galicians who voted for us and you think I'm not the first division, like the voters and the voters who voted for you. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, in the last elections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u191	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u192	...the Socialist Party, 460,000 people, who you despise in front of those 690 who seem to have to consider. With regard to the amendment of the BNG, we're going to accept point 7 as an addendum, converted into point 6 of our motion. We can't accept point 6 because the Welsh Strategy of Climate Change would have to come in the form of Climate Change Law; that is, there would have to be a law of climate change if the Government of the People's Party was involved and it was about to legislate in this chamber, which is what we have to do, not make strategies that are no use of anything but to say unfortunate phrases in official presentations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u194	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. You know the texts of the motions -- you have them there -- and then I'll read one, two and three and if you've accepted the amendments. So, the first motion. Voted for points accepted. Let's vote for the first five points. Vote of points 1 to 5 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of maritime rescue and the fight against marine pollution The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. These points of the motion are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u195	We now vote on the sixth point. We vote. Vote on point 6 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in matters of maritime rescue and fight against marine pollution. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u196	We now vote on the second motion, which accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Do Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of pediatric care. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u197	And finally, the last, the third motion, on which point 7 was accepted as an addendum, which is an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to climate change. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u198	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. And we've moved on to the third point of the agenda: proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the eradication of the infra-vitals in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u199	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u200	Good night. Thank you, President. Today we bring to this chamber an initiative that speaks of something that seems to be precisely in low hours in the ranking of considerations of this government, something as important as improving the dignity and quality of life of many Greek families, and in this case of their homes and their homes. At a time of the year, in addition, when time is rising and the deficiencies and precariousness of homes are more evident, we think we need to talk about the problem, which does not affect a few and a few, but many, many, many Welsh people. We want to focus on all these people, because these are the problems that affect Galicia's most vulnerable families, but especially because it's a real problem. Last week the government group approved in Commission 2nd — and with our vote against — the creation of a guide on smart housing, domestic housing, for Galicia of the future. And we've already said it in your day and we've emphasized it today: before we talk about the future, let's worry about the present, and to talk about the present it's necessary to look in all directions and not just in what we're interested in. Galicia has thousands of dwellings with precarious installations, with precarious closures, with precarious structures, without heating, without basic appliances, without insulation, without windows that avoid thermal bridges, without effective waterproofing; and many of them are infra-living. And the Socialist Party doesn't say so, says the recent Report on Social Exclusion and Development in Galicia, of the Foesa Foundation, which reveals how in Galicia there are about 47,400 inadequate housing, and that affects about 149,000 people, which means 5.5 percent of the population of Galicia, and is not excluding the inadequate housing qualification as well as the insecure housing. And when we talk about inadequate housing, we're talking about housing that doesn't meet the minimum living conditions -- that is, they don't have the constructive characteristics that are suitable to be inhabited, because they have serious deficiencies in construction or they're in ruin state. They also do not have adequate supplies and supplies to enable hygiene and health (current water, hot water, electricity, sewage). And we also talk about those who don't provide the right conditions for living in conditions of comfort and privacy, because of over-employment or because of the existence of architectural barriers in housing. These, among other things. And — I insist — the data speak of 149,000 people living in these inadequate dwellings, 5.5% of the population. And many of them do in addition to housing—I said— qualify as insecure, i.e., with a threat of expulsion of the dwelling, in situations of ill-treatment or with a tendency in precariousness. The truth is that we are worried about this data, and we are very concerned about it, because it seems to us more urgent to prevent an older person, a child from breathing an unhealthy air of fungi from a bad ventilation and also from living in an unstable place, or living in an insecure home for living ill-treatment or risk of exclusion, and not so much that he can control all the household appliances from a command, something that — it seems — is the current concern of this government. Moreover, data from the IGE itself reveal that in Galicia they are still about eighteen thousand households that don't have basic appliances, such as a refrigerator or washing machine, and nearly half of them recognize that they don't have them because they can't afford to buy them, not because they don't want to. And it also reveals as much as half of the buildings with an age of fifty or more do not count with heating; something more than one hundred and fifty thousand homes do not, therefore, have a stable heat source; since, besides, now, in the middle of winter, it is absolutely terrible. And the IGE also tells us that there are 8,000 households that, being precarious, also have serious deficiencies, i.e., with humidity, with drops, with rotremia, in soils or windows, and serious deficiencies of thermal and acoustic isolation. And those eight thousand hundred homes, which host an average of twenty-four thousand people, should be one of the concerns of this government, to meet these real needs, and not as much as acting as publicist and commercially out of false needs, which are revealed, in addition, as a concern only to those who already have all basic housing needs. To prioritise and care for those who need it most, that's what we ask this government today, because we have to guarantee the minimum quality of housing for those and those who can't. And because, in addition, we are talking about values that should always be guaranteed, such as health, as dignity and habitability. There are many, besides, the physical, chemical, biological and also psychosocial risks to which a person is exposed in a precarious housing: exposure to noise, vibration, radiation, presence of heavy metals, combustion products, poor lighting, bacteria, pathogens, viruses; and not to mention, of course, the influence that it has on us continues to affect contours that, of course, psychological and emotional in our development. And it is at least curious to note, for example, how it is currently possible to deny employment or work licences in new homes or homes rehabilitated by failing to comply with any article or rule, as little as it is, because they are not adapted to the present legality, and yet this government does not include among its priorities to prevent all the most precarious housing and constructions that are already built and of greater antiquity from being adapted and, at least, ensuring minimums which guarantee minimum livingability. And the Government should not give its back to this concern, because the Foesa Foundation's own study reveals how half the Galician population, 49.8%, considers that the Administration has the duty to guarantee access to one housing to the entire population; and the other half, 49.7%, that duty has to be limited to that population in need. That is, virtually all of the population in Greece believes that access to a housing must be guaranteed at least for the most vulnerable groups. This conviction must be understood and answered properly. And just as we have already presented — you can say that in a constant and insistent way — initiatives to increase the public housing park that improves this accessibility and access to a housing, today we focus our initiative on ensuring that those that already exist but are classified as infra-living improve their minimum living conditions. Our urgency is greater when, in addition, we confirm that since Galician Union, through the RehaVIta Plan, if it has made provision — but only for the municipalities with less than ten thousand inhabitants — an annual departure to help eradicate that sub-vival in Galicia. However, compared with the €5,200,000 allocated in 2017, in 2018 that amount was reduced to €300,000. And this year it was reduced to just two hundred thousand. So far, in fact, the municipalities of rural Galicia have been totally denoved since the first year, since 2017, with those aids, and they are only thirty-four, thirty-four, the assisted homes. One more program, therefore, of washing the face of a government committed only to doing what it does. [[Applause]] The problem of housing — I have just told you — is a reality that, in addition, affects the entire territory of Greece and should be addressed in all the municipalities; most of them are located in the suburbs of the big cities and the large municipalities of Galicia. And you often don't know the reality of these homes and their homes, their conferences and conferences. And for all this, and for many more reasons, today we call on the Galician Parliament to urge the Galician Union to, on the one hand, promote and strengthen, in the 2020 budgets, the share of aid programme for the eradication of infra-vitals in Galicia of the RehaVita Plan and, on the other hand, make it extensive and accessible to all Galician municipalities. In this way, in addition, the attention and improvement of the basic living conditions and at least -- "at least": we already put up a not too high list -- at least 300 homes a year. And also, of course, working to improve the mechanisms for the detection of infra-vival cases, in order to equip the municipalities with a tool that allows them to better plan their housing policies and also the fate of self-help. Because we think it is necessary to facilitate a better understanding of the reality around us and to explore better coordination — in addition to municipal and autonomic services — in order to identify the needs of homes so that we can draw up a plan to improve housing with more urgent needs. Or at least drive their inclusion as public housing petitioners in case serious problems of uninhabitability are detected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u202	We therefore hope that all the groups who understand the sense of the proposal that we bring to this House today and that it will be considered positive by all. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u204	Thank you, President. Good air quality, enough access to sunlight and adequate ventilation are important to create a healthy indoor environment in any housing. The barometer of the healthy housing this year 2019 — February 2019 — reveals that the housings with humidity, darkness, excessive noises, low temperatures, etc. may seriously affect the health of people living in them. This year's barometer analyses deeply, on the one hand, how our buildings and houses are affecting people's health and, on the other, the benefits derived, individually and socially, from ensuring that they reside in healthy buildings. One of the victims of unhealthy housing is children and children. Today, in the Spanish state, more than 6.9 million children under the age of fifteen live; many of these and many of them live in homes that today present potentially harmful deficiencies to their health. At European level, children living with at least one risk factor are 1.7 times more likely to have health problems. But this probability increases 4.2 times for those who live with the four risk factors: with humidity, with darkness, with excessive noises or with low temperatures. Growing up in unhealthy homes is associated with a greater probability of suffering from health problems — such as asthma, such as eczema, respiratory problems and problems of high pathways. To put it in perspective: the World Health Organization points to passive smoking as one of the most harmful exposure risks within the inner environments. Well, in terms of loss of healthy years of life, exposure to humidity, or mold itself, represents around a third of the impact of passive smoking. Improving the internal climate of these places, of these dwellings, will not only benefit people's health, but also our performance and the economy. And in order to finish, we have to stop thinking for a minute about the social drama that it means for people who are living today in infra-vivals... in Galicia, unfortunately, they are many, both in cities and in the rural world, and it's a real social drama. And therefore we from En Marea will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u205	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u206	In fact, the People's Party last week presented us with a very clarifying initiative of which are its priorities: the housing of the future, the housing of robotics, the intelligent housing; that is, the housing of millions. That's what the People's Party is thinking about, isn't it, to make politics for privileged people — as does their fiscal policy, by the way. [[Applause]] It's all very coherent. You're in another reality. Because the reality of people is not that magical realism of the propaganda of the People's Party; it's tragic realism, the drama that describes all those reports that were cited here, starting with one of an entity that is not exactly advisor to this left Bolshevik, Bolivarian and independentist who you have here in front of Parliament: FOESSA, dependent on the Catholic Church, of Caritas. This dramatic reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is highlighted: 440,70,000 people in this country in a situation of social exclusion. Galicia is the country with more integrated people — or supposedly integrated — who are at risk of exclusion and who, with the threat of a new recession, would move on to the group of excluded people. That report also says that housing is precisely the biggest factor of social exclusion in this country, and that we are far above the Spanish average in these parameters. Because 35% of the population is excluded from the housing! We're talking about nearly a million people suffering in this country, this problem -- or 35% -- while the average state is 24%. And we've already given here the data that I'm not going to repeat or enlarge. We are talking about the drama of this situation and the fact that evolution in Galicia over the past five years, coincides with governments of the People's Party both in the state and in the Government of the Union, is much more negative in all these parameters than in the state — the report by FOESSA makes this comparison between 2013 and 2018. And it says specifically that where it is most negative is precisely in the housing, where 23% increased the residential exclusion, from 12% of the population in 2013 to 35.3% of the population in 2018. There are, of course, chilling data that have taken place here on this issue. And we would also have to talk about the drama of defiance. Because we're talking about the infra-vival and the people who don't have a home, but there's a lot of people they're throwing out, not even that insur-vival... they're throwing it out of their homes! Nearly 2,000 people a year are in this dramatic situation of defiance. We also have to talk about the drama of young people who can't afford a house or who have to spend almost half their salary in order to have a house in rent. And when, in addition, you leave these people on the way; because there were about 8,000 requests for grants for this end and you left more than 6,000 new people, under thirty-five years, out of those aids, in addition to solving them very late. We're also talking about the drama about the shortage of public housing. Out of the shortage of free housing! It's just that there's not even housing for rent because of the effect of speculation and the voracity of those who are taking advantage, as a business, of what should be a basic right of the population. I mean the Voitre funds and the bank. And we also talk about the drama of thousands of people in this country who can't even get out of their homes because they have mobility difficulties and because there are no elevators or because there are architectural barriers or because, by themselves, they can't even get out of their homes. It is clear that BNG will support these proposals, because we need to increase the efforts of all administrations to end the problem of infra-vival. But we can't stay in palliative responses again; we have to make an effort also to solve the causes of this situation. If not, we'll always be in the loop of being yourself by giving funds to it, because it's going to repeat the situation of insurvivor because there are thousands of people who are, as the report by FOESSA says, in front of exclusion, and because they have no decent wages and because they have precarious working conditions and because they have no public help and, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u208	...so, what really needs to be eradicated are the economic and social causes that lead to exclusion and that lead to exclusion from housing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u209	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u210	We support this initiative of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which is very clear and very concrete; although, as Bará has just said, it has far deeper causes that can not only be arranged with grants and aids — which could be much more generous than those which have been made by the Government of Beijóo in the last ten years, since it has drastically reduced the budgets allocated to housing. And they can't blame the economic crisis, but even, in proportion to this country's wealth, they have reduced housing budgets. But it also has to do with precariousness, poverty... we must be careful not to subdivide that poverty into energy poverty, infra-vival, etc. It's often poverty. And he's talking about a country where a lot of people have no money to keep a decent housing. I honestly don't know how anyone still resigns by assuming responsibility for the fiasco of the housing policies of the People's Party. Every little time we came here with more fiasco. We're talking about the Empty Housing Programme, with six grants in two years across Galicia. You will come here to make excuses and say that if there are municipalities that do not join this program... there are seventy municipalities, many of them of the People's Party — the city of Ourense among them — and there are six aids in two years, so that only 3.2% of the initial budget was executed. A fiasco! The fiasco of the housing of public protection, with beginning rhythms of protection dwellings of five, six, eight annual dwellings, when there are fourteen thousand people demanding housing of protection. And the latter: refuse 80% of the aid to rent the State Housing Plan, where the Galician Union did not budget a euro Euro for the rental aid program! Rejected six thousand and peaked at the eight thousand that were requested for general help. So this is the housing policy of the People's Party: absolute neglect to guarantee the right to housing, absolute concern for the business of a few at the expense of most. And we're talking about Plan rehaVita, which is a curtain of smoke to do as anyone does. But it does not meet its objectives. It is a program that injects public money into the hands of multi-owners, into the hands of Sareb, and that even with these aids creates inflation in the real estate market. The help given by this program often helps increase prices and further inflate the market. And they continue to focus on these dynamics of the past without going to the core of the question, which is a public housing policy based also on providing this country with a public housing park at social and accessible prices to provide a solution to many of these people who, among other things, have problems of insurvivability, but also to regulate the market and prevent the unmeasured rise in housing prices. For example, they have some programs that sell how very social they are the axis, the first axis, of Plan rehaVita — access to housing — and they come up with agreements with Sareb to use, like shelters, Sareb's housing. And it's a double scam: we've already rescued these housing with public money and now we're subsidizing it with public money to use these housing. The banks, delighted. On the other hand, we have the second axis of regeneration and rehabilitation, through a partial subsidy to the owners of infra-vivals. Often these people can't even assume a part of the arrangement; therefore, often they can't people who need access to these subsidies most. And as for the third axis, of prevention and social exclusion, with mortgage reallocations via rent bonus, they are not being effective to prevent housing exclusion either. So you're not making enough effort, you're not spending enough money, and besides, those you're going to are not going to those that have proven effectiveness; rather, it's ten years of systematic failure in housing policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u211	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u212	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres said we care about the present before the future. This has happened. [[Show mobile phone]] Mr President, I am sorry, but this mobile phone that Parliament has given us has passed. You all have it, all of you are using it, but for you it seems you can't talk about the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u213	Loaned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u214	Loaned, exactly. But for you, it seems you can't talk about the future. It's a problem. We just talked about a motion on climate change, what I think we should talk about, and that's about the present and the future. Smart houses, self-sufficient and zero-emission houses are now present and will be the future. If we can talk, and I assure you that the guide to smart houses and houses of the future that was approved in the Commission last week is not a single euro left to the insurvivor or to the housing aid of the people in need. Not a single one. All applications made for infra-vivence in 2019 have been approved. All of them! They're not, by the way, thirty-four, but they're sixty-six. And by the way, those requests for insurvivor aid are made through the municipalities. You mustn't manipulate things, Mrs. Pierres. See, the 2020 budget, which has just been approved this morning at noon, sets out and provides support for housing improvements, on the initiative and management of the municipalities, of EUR 12,580, 200,000 for infra-vival — which can be extended in case of need, as happened in 2019, when they were expanded — 10 million funds for the cooperation of the municipalities — which can use all the municipalities — and EUR 2,380,000 for the homes of the teachers and other offices, which are inhabited for the most needy people who use the municipalities of less than ten thousand inhabitants. For individuals and communities — not for multi-owners, as Mr Sánchez said — for owners and neighboring communities: three million euros for energy efficiency, five million euros in conservation and security and accessibility, and six million five hundred thousand in rehabilitation areas. All that is, including the paths of Santiago, which will be added next year, for it is planned for the approval of one of the municipalities of the Sacred Ribeira, which I suppose seems bad to you. Here, the aid is 40% of the cost and can reach up to 75% depending on the income of users, if they have incomes less than three times the IPREM. That's what there is. In total, 27,080,000 euros in housing aids, which are not for 300 homes; they are for several thousand homes. By way of example, I'm going to tell you that only one part, which represents communities in the year 2019, is about six hundred communities that asked for help for energy efficiency. That means, with an average of ten dwellings -- I assure you, there are communities of 80 and about 100 neighbors -- and I'm going to be very careful, we're talking about over 6,000 homes that have received help for accessibility or energy efficiency. There's not, therefore, what you're saying or much less. And now we can talk about the FOESSA report. And it must be stated clearly that the FOESSA report, which in Galicia was 655 polled — far below the Galego Institute of Statistics, which directly makes 9,216 housings, with data studied and otherwise structured —... but as far as the FOESSA report, since so many references to it want to do, there must also be reference to what it says; and in another paragraph, it says that the percentage of people who consider having all their needs covered is substantially higher in Galicia than in the rest of Spain: 62.2% in Galicia compared to 37.2% in Spain. We need to keep in mind and clearly distinguish between unsafe dwellings and inadequate dwellings. Unsafe dwellings are considered depending on the degree of tenure; that is, the degree of ownership or the degree of rent or state they have. Look, think of your lords, that a house that is handed over by a father to a son is considered unsafe. A housing — which we have in rural areas like this — is our way of life — where grandparents, children, grandchildren and, sometimes even great-grandchildren live, is an insecure housing according to the report by FOESSA, according to the criteria set out by FOESSA, which are completely respectable because they are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u216	...the ones in the same introduction are indicated. And so... but you have to read it all! And you have to say it. We can't come here and say that most of our rural dwellings turn out to be unsafe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u217	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u218	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. As for inadequate housing, most of them are due to humidity or accessibility; and in that sense it's where you're working and you've been working on the Galician Union for years to reduce. That is why we have 40% less in Galicia in that situation than in Spain on average. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u219	Thank you. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u220	Yes, thank you, President. We appreciate, of course, the support of the opposition groups — Mixto, BNG and Common Left — and we regret, as we do not, the vote against, once again, the government group installed in a frontal and not so much in the three-dimensional perspective. I'm going to tell you a secret today so you can meditate on it tonight, in just a little mouse, and sleep on it. Cannot be a 3D policy based on 2D-only policies. The dimension of what they are forgetting is human; that is precisely what they forget about many of their policies. [[Applause]] I'm told they serve rehabilitation aid, as stated here, when you don't count on funding. What good is it that the maximum you can get is about twelve thousand euros if you can't even count on a thousand euros to have a washing machine and a fridge at home? How do you get the money you don't have? Think also that behind every measure you have to think, and much, about those you can't. In the matter of housing -- you've also said here and you know it -- there have been many failures, many dimensions lost on the road: — empty housing programme: they forgot the size of the fixed maximum prices, what did ADIU say to all Galician owners? — rehabilitation programme: leaves everything without minimum funding; — rental aid programme: it left out 80% of petitioners, more than 8,000 people who did meet the conditions; — programme rehaVita: thirty-four performances, in three years, in only nineteen municipalities. And this year's expectation of only four euros per housing to solve the infra-vival problem; — Young people's emancipation programme: this one does not count on it. This one was left in the hands of the German parents and mothers, their sons' and daughters' households for years. Do you understand what I'm saying? It's not that you don't even think about the three dimensions, you're not even in reality. Its reality is absolutely virtual, in which they prefer to be constantly located and only guarantee flotility, obviating the real dimension of people's problems. A strategy based on diverting attention. I assure you that, as in health care, the Greek society — even here today, the people of Verín — is sending you messages of being fed up. In the matter of living, the message will be, sooner or later, also high and clear, because the degree of abandonment is such that it is already worrying about the scandalous. I insist, they pay attention to all the dimensions that address the housing problem in Galicia and they don't feel virtual what is a hard and frustrating reality for many Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-17-DSPG143.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
