ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified her inattentiveness to Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Provision of promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia by two new Members
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u2	As a preliminary point, we will proceed to request the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of the new Member Mr Gonzalo Caballero Míguez and the new Mrs Maria Teresa Porritt Lueiro. For this reason, by complying with Article 7.1 of the Regulation, it is appropriate to request the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Galician Statute of the new Members Mr Gonzalo Caballero Míguez and Ms Maria Teresa Porritt Lueiro. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I promise" or "yes, I swear" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, do you promise or swear to remain faithful to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Teresa Porritt Lueiro, do you promise or swear to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u5	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u6	Thank you very much. Once the promise has been made, you acquire the full status of Members of the German Parliament. Welcome, both of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Now we're already on point 1 of the agenda. Election of the people's valet on a proposal from the Committee on Petitions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u7	Already initiated the procedure for the election of the people's valet and approved by the Committee on Petitions at the session of July 29, 2019, the candidate's proposal for the appointment of the people's valet is Ms. Maria Dolores Fernández Galiño. The election shall be made by ballot in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The candidate will be elected if she gets the majority, three fifths; i.e. 45 votes. The expression of the vote shall be made as follows: votes in favour, by entering the ballot containing the candidate's name; blank votes, by inserting the ballot in which no name is present; and no votes shall be considered for those in which the ballot is entered if the names of other persons are written or containing scraps or signals. We shall begin the vote. So I suppose the papers are already being distributed to all Members. Let's wait a few seconds. [[Pause.]] The secretariat will make the call in alphabetical order for Members and Members to vote in the ballot box. They have to bring down the vice president and the vice secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u8	All Members have already voted; then we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u9	When the vote was taken, the result was the following: votes in favour of the proposal as a valedora de lo people de dona María Dolores Fernández Galiño, 51; votes in white, 18; votes in null, 2. Reached, therefore, the majority required by article 2.3 of Law 6/1984, is designated as a valet of the people's Lady Maria Dolores Fernández Galliño. No more, we've moved on to item 2 of the agenda. Debates and votes of the Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u10	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia are maintained. For the presentation of the dictatorship, the President of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Jaime Castineira Broz, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on natural heritage and biodiversity in Galicia was entered in the register of Parliament on 15 May 2019. Its admission to the proceedings was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at its meeting on 21 May, and it opened the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 10 and 27 June for amendments to the whole and the joint, respectively. In particular, the amendment to the full refund submitted by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea was rejected at the plenary meeting on 25 June 2019. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 341; 129 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 91 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 113 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 8 of the People's Parliamentary Group. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 5 July, designated the presentation to prepare the report, which was set up on 9 July. At the following three meetings, the rapporteur and the rapporteurs, Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López, of the Popular Parliamentary Group; Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia; Mr. Anton Sánchez García, of the Parliamentary Group En Marea; and Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, prepared the report with the final recommendations, which they issued on 15 July. Subsequently, Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its special session on 19 July, approved the dictation which I am presenting with 7 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions, incorporating into the text of the bill, in addition to the corresponding technical amendments, 37 amendments — 8 of them, negotiated —. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the draft law of the natural heritage and of the biodiversity of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u12	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. We therefore begin with the turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, also defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Today in this House, in the plenary session of the Greek Parliament, we are going to give the final blow, the final stockpiling, to our natural heritage. Counsellor Ánxeles Vázquez points out that this new law of natural heritage will enhance the ecological wealth and the environmental and landscape quality of the Greek municipalities. The Counsellor points out that the new law has as its primary purpose the restoration and conservation of biodiversity while enhancing sustainable use. But reality is different. This law is not ambitious in terms of protection, and it does not seriously address the situation of abandonment of our natural heritage. This new regulation, which will override the vigil Law 9/2011, of conservation of nature, is deeply concerned about citizenship, deeply concerned about conservation entities. And why? Because, firstly, it's little ambitious and, secondly, because it doesn't address the serious situation of abandonment and deterioration of our heritage. You point out, from the Government, that with this rule there will be a greater defence and protection of our natural heritage. First we're going to depreciate everything with the new Act of Business Initiatives, thus benefiting mining, thus benefiting the big industry, and then we're going to give you a face-to-face wash with this law that doesn't get to the fundamental issues that you have to come to. The law points out that, in case of doubt, the natural approach will always prevail before other matters — including urban or business issues. In addition, companies wishing to install in environmentally sensitive areas will have to provide an endorsement or a guarantee that will be implemented in the event that there are risks to the natural environment. With this law in hand, they're going to have to start spinning around the intensive production models that we have in comarcas along and across the country, villages that are savagely assaulted. Here's the example of Limia. The Limia has a protective zone figure, and this is a chicken tank. And like this one there are tens and tens scattered all over the region. I mean, we have a protective figure that doesn't protect. The DROSERA Association for the Study and Conservation of the Natural Environment, the Galician Association of Custody of the Territory, Ecologicalists in Action, Network Forum and Custody of the Territory, the Habitat Naturalist Group, the Galician Network of Custody of the Territory, the Galician Society of Natural History, or the Galician Society of Ornithology, among others, demonstrate and argue that the draft does not effectively protect our natural heritage. For organizations such as the Galician Natural History Society, the new law will go a little further than the previous one, updating the text with the one indicated in the state regulations of compliance. I mean, we're changing the law because we don't have our current regulations adapted to both state and European regulations. Thus, they point out that in the eighteen years — eighteen years! — that have passed since the enacting of the law the natural heritage of Galicia has suffered a systematic continued deterioration, since Law 9/2001 has not been implemented in its entirety. And he never counted on the corresponding regulatory standard that he had carried it out, that he had developed it. This is a catalogue of endangered species, which was approved in 2007 and which collected more than 200 threatened species in respect of which recovery or conservation plans are planned. The current protection plans for these threatened species are currently three. But, look!, even those three approved plans are not being executed. 1.5 % of these species obtained a protection plan, 1.5 % in 12 years. I don't think you can fool anyone with this data. Another example: the Natura 2000 Network is not yet complete, because it has not fulfilled the European Union's obligation to expand it. We're one of the least surfaced communities on Natura Network, and we're less protected by this figure. To this we have to add the general state of abandonment of these protected spaces to the absence of effective management and sufficient monitoring. One example of this is the Natura Network in the central mass, a large extension of the Natura Network where, year after year, hundreds of hundreds of hectares burn without any action from the Government being taken; as a result of the loss and degradation of soils and loss of biodiversity, without the Unity of Galicia doing anything at all. Still, its position is fundamental to a series of basic pillars that are marking the development and processing of the norm. These entities also complain, and rightly, that the practice of all the amendments they presented, these groups, were rejected and without the Government giving any kind of justification for what it did. We have a human value and capital working in an almost altruistic way to protect our heritage, and the Government gives it its back. Despite what is stated in the preamble, the law guarantees that particular urban interests will prevail over the general interest in preserving our natural heritage. We can also find ourselves in case it doesn't expand, that we don't have any more natural park. They comment on these groups and claim that, unlike the rest of the autonomous communities, the law sets a minimum area for natural parks. Unless the Lower Lime-Serre du Jurés Natural Park, no natural park in Galicia today would have been declared with this law, for failing to reach that figure that you mark 10,000 hectares. Nor does it recover the figure of the director of the natural park, which is essential for proper management; wetlands are still being forgotten; the custody of the territory remains unsupported; the new law will not facilitate citizen participation, which we think is basic and elementary to accommodate it in institutions; it makes a serious mistake in the definition of the "guardian agreement" by not extending to a maximum of four years for custody agreements with the Administration; it does not declare its actions as public utility and social interest, and does not facilitate its work with legislative, fiscal, economic and social development, and micro-reservals will continue to be useless figures. And then, for these reasons and many others, because these entities are worried. And if these entities are concerned, I think that the Greek citizenship in general has to be concerned about the adoption of a law that won't guarantee the preservation of our fauna, the preservation of our flora, the landscape, ice and ecosystem systems. The crisis, the economic crisis of 2008, served the People's Party, in this case, as an excuse to abandon environmental policy on our land, from which they had been subject to laws such as the "Act of Predation of Galicia". They created a model of useless protected areas, with micro-reservations that prevented conservation that was not real. And they set a minimum of hectares to declare a natural park that in practice will prevent the emergence of new spaces with this figure. We are also observing here that the People's Party has avoided the problem of invasive species, despite the second cause of loss of biodiversity on the planet. In the text of this law it is obvious that eucalyptus nitens is an exotic invasive species, dangerous for the maintenance of biodiversity and the functionality of our ecosystems — pursuant to Judgment 274/2014, Section 1a of the National Audience's Dispute-Administrative Chamber. Even the eucalyptus globulus is also being considered an invader in the Alloctone Atlas of Invasive Plants of Spain, published by the General Directorate for Biodiversity. It is not clear in the text that the unstoppable increase in eucalyptus is related to the agricultural abandonment and decline of the Greek rural environment, thus generating a cultivation broth for forest fires and for the pastry business. Indeed, the lack of a sustainable, multifunctional and socially inclusive production model makes the fate of our mountains and land land, which should have these protective figures, since it is the monoculture, in particular, of the eucalyptus, which replaces the leafy natives. This happens before the passivity, when not the complicity, of the Council of Galicia, which has so far been permissive by the failure to comply with the rules, so you are complicit in all the evil that is happening in our mountains. Why have you not fulfilled the current legislation — which has been made, in addition to you, by the Law of the Mountains, the Law of the Back, which will be the ancient Law of Conservation of Nature, which limited planting with these species in plots with native leafy masses, agricultural lands, rivers, coasts, habitats of interest, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Why do you allow new plantations and restockings with species of this genre in spaces that belong to the Greek Network of Protected Spaces? You formally catalogue eucalyptus nites as an exotic species invasive in this law, dangerous for the maintenance of our biodiversity and the functionality of our ecosystems because of the many existing judgments, and you put in place a plan of control and eradication in those areas where it is present. And then we can start talking. We then find ourselves with cases like what is happening in the Oribio greenhouse, a protected natural space, included in the Natura 2000 Network as a special conservation area — the Anchors and O Courel — which is a zone of special protection of natural values; so, according to the Nature Network's Master Plan and Article 32 of the Law of the wind sector of Galicia, of the year 2009, it would be forbidden to build new wind farms there. We visited the area last week with neighbors and neighbors of the villages, as well as with different eco-associations — associations that have already denounced these events. That's a real pity. Here are some graphic reports. We can no longer only observe how they are destroying natural heritage, but how they're even going over their jaws or even to some old way, to some old way of Santiago. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez shows some photos from the gallery.]] With regard to this wind farm, to which a high-voltage line is linked and whose project has been approved, because since the Joint Parliamentary Group we have just requested documentation from the authorization of the wind farm of this greenhouse, as well as from the possible modifications, if this is the case. We want to report on the administrative situation in which the authorization procedure for this project is found in the municipalities of Samos and Triacastela and the environmental reports on the changes to this park, as well as a copy of the environmental park declaration of the wind farm that had been approved and, if so, the situation of this procedure for assessing social and environmental conditions is reported. We can't come here to advertise with a law that we didn't end up fulfilling and that we passed on to him. More cases: biosphere reserves. We have a practical case — this still happened two weeks ago —. The reservation of the Allariz biosphere, in the municipality of Rairiz de Veiga, is declared as such in 2005. With more than 21,000 acres and a little more than 9,000 inhabitants, it's one of the 47 reservations in the Spanish state. And the House of Ourense intends to arrange a road cutting over 100 trees, which in some cases have been for many years; trees with a load, both boulders and some alder. And here we see how the Hydrographic Confederation reports that the request is not necessary, Environment allows the works without any caution, Rural Media authorizes the cuts and Cultural Heritage no longer responds. For this reservation of the biosphere, through which the River Limitia flows, and through which there is also a mountain border, we think that it has to have another kind of protection, and not that the Environmental Council itself reports that you can cut those trees without any care. We don't understand that the Galician Union gives these permits without taking into account the impressive virtues of this reservation. Natural monuments, another practical example. This picture is taken today at 7:30 a.m., coming here on its way. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez shows a picture from the gallery.]] It's the Pumbariños chestnut tree, a straight chestnut tree with more than a thousand years old, which has a perimeter of 13 meters. And the whole lotus is considered a natural monument. This is the sad state you're in. You don't see the beavers with the briars. This is what the Galician Union is protecting: the trees affected by disease, the pineapple, the hen, the hen, have not been pruned for more than 15 years. There are briars, spiders, hemp and garbage, so often they have to go the city hall's workers to a space that's yours to pick up the garbage because it's in sad conditions. We, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, understand that this law that is to be passed today is no longer more than a propaganda pamphlet towards the next elections, a face-washing to cover up the outcomes that the Autonomic Administration has agreed — when it has not participated in them — throughout and throughout the country. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u15	Good morning. Thank you, President. We wanted to start with a previous question that seems to us to be the main issue. And we want to denounce the attitude of the People's Party in the procedure for tabling this law for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the rules of democratic respect which must prevail in this Parliament. It's not a receipt, and it's also a demonstration of authoritarianism and lack of respect for opposition groups. Because you did an express processing in the presentation in five days. They were Metaphorically put a gun in their chest. They told us on July 23 that the next Monday, in five days, it had to be done, when the regulation provides for at least fifteen days extendable for this procedure. Therefore, this urgency came further after 18 years with a law in force — breached, as is evident — after twelve years since the adoption of the state law, after two years of initiating the processing of the law and after having it in dry dock for five months. This law, between October 2018 and March 2019, was kept in the caskets of the Union. They didn't move a paper and suddenly they impose these deadlines on us. This is a real democratic scourge and we want to say it here very loud and clear. And it shows the real authoritarian, despotic, rude face and the bad manners of the People's Party. [[Applause]] In addition, it is done by vetoing social participation, which is provided for in Article 115.3 of the Rules of Procedure, with the possibility that a hearing may be held in the proceedings to entities related to the subject matter in question so that they can give us their vision of the law here. And you've reviewed the opposition groups' proposal, which we're asking for a four-entity appearance — from Adega, from the Galician Natural History Society, also from the Galician Society of Ornitology, and from the Galician Territory's network of Custody Entities -- as a sample of all this variety of entities working on a daily basis, which defend this country's natural heritage and biodiversity. And that wasn't supposed to be any delay, it was supposed to be a morning's work. This makes it clear that you want a closed parliament, a strong parliament, a bite parliament, a closed parliament to society, and that you have an aversion to democracy, participation, dialogue, debate and pluralism. Because for you here you can only come to look and shut up, not to debate, not to work, not to contrast with society. We, of course, are going to use every means at our disposal to prevent these ways of the People's Party and to open the doors of this Parliament to society to the collectives working in our country, which we believe, at least, they deserve respect. And that's why the opposition groups invited us, we heard them, we talked to them, and we were working with them one morning. We want to thank them for this work here today, because these collectives are representing society very decently in this Parliament. Thank you, thank you very much, really, for your work. [[Applause]] And what was the purpose of these rushes? Because it was to pass a law in this session. Of course, they have such a ridiculous balance of approval of laws in this legislation that they came in such haste at the last hour. You don't even have a policy plan for the year 2019, they're now approving the laws of 2017. They're a real disaster, they're in the legislative paralysis, they're in a legislative suspense, and now they've come at their last hour in haste because they want to camouflage and disguise the reality that they're at this point dead with some sort of activity here because we're in the middle of summer working and passing laws. Lying, falsehood! Of course, we challenge that falsehood. And how it works with these rushes, then they do laws of chapuceiras, which have to amend after a few weeks and a few months, as it happened with the Act of Shows, as it happened with the Law of Animal Welfare, as it is happening with the Law of Rehabilitation, which they have just published an instruction because they were not clarified between the Council of Culture and the Council of Living. They had to make an instruction to interpret the law. Here we go! So it goes with this law, which is also a "reminder law", a "Frankenstein law," because they had to use it to amend the Mountain Law and the Land Law. However, this debate seems to us to be very relevant because it is a self-portrait of the People's Party, of the People's Party's Party's management in this matter. It clearly shows the irrelevance of both the environment and biodiversity for the Galician Union. First of all, the political irrelevance of the Council itself and of the Directorate-General for Nature Conservation itself; also the economic irrelevance which makes this law and the budgets of the Galician Union manifest, and the economic and financial memory which they present to us with all this law. Look at a fact that I think it's enlightening. Do you know how much Galician Union dedicates to managing natural parks, reserves and micro-reserves? It is placed in the financial and economic memory: 11,600 euros, 11,600 euros! This can't be said to be austerity, that's insanity, that's cutrez, that's to share the crumbs left to meet... that's the clearest example of what the conservation of nature and biodiversity means for you, Counsellor. You put them in memory of your own law. They also put in the budget that they dedicate to this matter, to the conservation of nature, which is less than 6 million, of which the Galician Union is just over 2. This is the sample of the relevance that you give him. And in this law, in addition, there is not a single economic commitment to improve this situation. And what's more serious to us: supposes total and absolute subordination of nature and biodiversity to economic, business and urban interests, supposes putting nature at the mercy of energy, forestry, mining and so on. Besides, as it became clear as well, and as all conservation and ecological collectives have already been told, you have systematically violated legislation, all regulations adopted since 2001. And this is very serious. We would like them to comply with those rules at least. What you did was you were a government that we can call "Atila government in Galicia" in terms of biodiversity, the government of the three "d", the government of defeat, deprotection and predation of natural heritage. We can give you multiple examples, starting with natural spaces, which are unprotected natural spaces. Of course, with those budgets, how will they be protected? Besides, they now apply the number locked into the natural spaces. There can be no more natural parks. That's implicit in this law. Secondly, because we have the Natura Network on the line of state and European. We have only 12% of the territory protected with this figure, when the average state is 28%. I have already given you in the previous debate the data of the communities we have next to, of Asturias and Castile and León. But the problem is not only that the Natura Network is not extended because the interests of these energy, forestry and miners lobbyists prevail, and we have many examples of territories in which the expansion of the Natura Network was planned. The debate on the Debt of Anllares, in Mazaricos, is recently scheduled for the enlargements of the Natura Network for 2008 and 2011 and 2012. They were paralyzed. Why? Because there were three mini-centre projects and a wind park that are threatening and destroying this true jewel of the most western Atlantic forest in Europe. That's how you treat the natural heritage. But besides, the European Union has clearly told them that the nature network's master plan is not worth a management tool in these areas, and you don't want to know. This is the example of the plans for threatened species — the spokesman for the Joint Group said earlier and I will not extend this question — three miserous plans for 200 species. But the problem is not that there are no plans, that those who have do not meet them. A census has just been made by the Galician Society of Ornithology on the dramatic situation of the sugarcane writer, to which they put an extinction date in the year 2023 at the present pace. There are 20 couples left. And that's supposed to be a recovery plan. What about the situation of species that don't even have a conservation or recovery plan? Or there is also the scandalous abandonment of ecosystems, perhaps most important for the preservation of biodiversity — Madam Counsellor, lends me attention — wetlands. What are you doing with the wetlands? We've got over a thousand wetlands catalogued and they're at the most absolute abandonment. Many of them are already missing by their irresponsible policy of abandonment of nature. And what about rivers, river courses, river basins? We could also put here the recent example of the Furelos River, Counsellor. You have it in front of your nose. They are not able to solve this issue, nor since the Town Hall — when they had responsibilities there, which you also had — nor since Galician Union. It's a scandal that thousands of trout are dying with this situation because they're not able to solve it. I am no longer referring to the topic of the landscape, because it is a scandal that we have without adopting the landscape regulation after passing the law in 2008. This is an absolutely central, central issue to solve the issue of the protection of the natural spaces of this country and its landscape. They've just made a draft of a regulation that's a real danger, it's a threat. They're not approved of the landscape guidelines. Do you know why they're not approving the landscape guidelines? Because they would really condition and limit that predation and the voracity of the companies you're protecting. And that's why they don't approve the landscape guidelines. Look, you don't have any credibility in this matter, because you don't care. You don't care, you don't care, you don't care about natural heritage and biodiversity, besides being a pose. Because, of course, at this point, it's good to put a little green in your life, in your politics, and you're also green. As one spokesman of these conservationist associations told them the other day, his green is the eucalyptus green, the green that meets the pilgrims who enter Galicia through the Way of Santiago, with uniformity, poverty, impoverishment of the country, the landscape and the soils that mean that monopoly or monoculture of the eucalyptus to the service of the interests that everyone knows. That's your love for green. And we want a Galician with chromatic variety, with the chromatic variety that has, for example, the forests of caducifolia. For you natural heritage is a trap, a stone on your shoe, and that's why they sacrifice it on the altar of interest of these big companies, business of the Ibex friendly companies and box "b", those of the spin doors, those of the extensions in discount time. And we are not illusory, we do not expect you to come here to introduce us the new deal green, which is what is now fashionable, to make a new deal green, to be all very green! We don't expect that. What we just hope is that they comply with the regulations in force, that they didn't have any desire to do so. Look, we'd have dozens, hundreds, of reasons to oppose this law, but we want to sum them up in ten. The first reason is the subordination of the protection of the territory, the landscape and the natural spaces to private economic interests. This is clearly evident in this law and in all the politics they've been doing over the years, because their recipe, the popular party's recipe, is that of biouniformity, not that of biodiversity. You're biouniformity. Secondly, there is a lack of budgetary commitment — with that economic memory that I have already cited and which is absolutely ridiculous —. You also refuse to create a tool that would be useful to work for biodiversity, which would be a Greek fund for natural heritage, as it is expected, by the way, in state law and as it is also contemplated in the law of Castile and León. Because you copy but you copy wrong, you copy the wrong, you don't copy the good. Let's see if they can copy the good one in this case. So in the law there are no means for any management plan, for any program, for no protected natural space, for its dynamization, for the preservation of these spaces, to combat the brutal impact of forest fires or invasive species. There's nothing in this law. Third reason: because it means contempt for local custodians, who have a fundamental role of mediation for space management and arrive right where the Administration does not arrive. And this law mistreats the custodial authorities of the territory. Fourth: because it does not include any commitment to enlargement and improvement of the management of the Natura Network. Fifth: by the veto implicit in the new natural parks. It's absolutely absurd and it has no justification or scientific basis that puts at least 10,000 hectares in parks. Sixth: because he excludes the laughs. Seventh: because it does not pay the necessary attention to wetlands, as we have already told them, which are fundamental to biodiversity. Eighth: because it does not include means and measures for the protection and recovery of threatened species. Ninth because it does not include means and measures to put a stop to the expansion of invasive exotic species. Tenth: because it's a law of an aimless government, a government with no global strategy and integrated into biodiversity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u17	It's over, Mr. President. This is a microlegi of a government microcounselry that doesn't believe in this issue. It's a translation of state law, it's a bad copy of the worst of the law of Castile and León. It's a "fake law", it's a "law lie", it creates appearance, it creates a decoration, but in which there is no effective policy behind it. It's the law of a government with a dark past and no future. It's the law of a terminator government, or, rather, of an exterminator government, because you're the exterminators of biodiversity. For all this, BNG will vote against. And this is going to be a non like a cathedral, it's going to be a no like a moose, like the rogue or the decaise of Anlares. Make them like me the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u18	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u19	Well, good morning to all and all. I wanted to welcome the representatives of the ecological, environmental and custody groups of the territory that accompany us today and my gratitude to them not only for being here today, not only for the work on this bill, but for the work they are doing and are doing over these years; a work that they do in their spare time, by devoting much effort to it, shows their commitment, and covering the deficiencies of a government that works against the natural heritage of this country and in favour of private interests. I know it often makes you feel discouraged, but you know that without you this country would be even worse than it is in that respect. Thank you very much, honestly. Because that's what happens when the fox takes care of the chickens, when the People's Party comes in front of the Territorial Environment and Planning Council. Well, I was watching this day Blade runner for the death of this actor that I'm not going to pronounce because my English is very bad. I saw the futuristic film, which has a lot of political message behind it. And as I was also preparing for the debate of this law, because instead of Tyrell Corporation, which was the one that did the replicators, I was given for the baptism of the Territorial Environment and Ordination Council -- it would be in a Welsh Blade runner -- like the "Ence, Naturgy and Atalaya Mining Council," which is for those who really come to work in recent years. They already have, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what they wanted, a new legal text entitled "Natural Heritage Law of Galicia", approved to try to conceal and hide their null baggage, their negative baggage, ten years of disloyalization with environmental protection and complicity with aggressions to natural heritage. They do it with their majority in a full extraordinary without justification, and after compressing the deadlines to say that Mr. Feijóo does a little less his own legislative calendar, just as he violates the laws that you yourself approve. For pure and simple party interest they did this process in a hurry, and without counting on the participation of the environmental and environmental groups, to whom you vetted, they watched. The law doesn't improve the previous one, it's a bad law. And his course does not hope for any change in his environmental policies over the last ten years. And I tell them that, even if we had a good law, the most important thing is to want to do it, to be willing to do it, to have the will that you haven't had in these last ten years. Because sometimes the laws are done because the previous laws are exhausted, because it is a limit to the performance of an obsolete government. But you didn't explore the limits. There remains a lot of Law 9/2001 to explore. For you have blatantly violated the law; therefore it is an idle, unnecessary law. Galicia's environmental problems over the last ten years don't come because there's a better or worse law, they come because there's a government that doesn't even comply with the law that it had to comply with. Did Law 9/2001 prohibit the development, approval and implementation of plans for the conservation or recovery of threatened species or in danger of extinction? No, the law looked at him. What he did not allow was his government action. Did Law 9/2001 prevent extending the Natura Network or providing the Natura Network with a master plan for the Natura Network that really protected those spaces? The law didn't stop him. Did the law prevent it from providing the necessary budgets for environmental protection? No, the law allowed it. And you didn't make any of these issues, and not because of disability — that too — but out of pure interest. You owe yourself to those for whom you work — with public salaries, that's right. But they don't work for the public, they work for very specific interests. They don't want to keep the law. The ten years of government Feijóo are the demonstration of total non-compliance with the law. You're the worst threat to Galicia's natural heritage, even though they come later to make publicity and propaganda. When that corruption fails to pass laws in accordance with certain economic interests, as you have done with the Business Initiatives Promotion Act -- quite well called "Depredation Law" -- you do not comply with the laws that you yourself approve, because it is not enough for your greed. For you, the protection of biodiversity and the environment is a shock, it's a burden for your economic model, for the economic model they want to implement. For you, this biodiversity protection is a barrier to economic development. And, speaking of the failure to comply with the law — and it has already been said here — the fundamental instrument emanating from Law 9/2001, on the protection of biodiversity, was the application of plans for the conservation and recovery of endangered species. There was a catalogue presented in 2007, by that two-party Government, which accounted for 200 of these species. I want to remember the definitions in the catalogue. The category "in danger of extinction" is for those whose survival is unlikely if the causal factors of their current situation continue to act, and "vulnerable" those who are at risk of going to the previous category — death hazard — in the immediate future if the adverse factors that act on them are not corrected. Among them are liqueurs, algae, plants and ferns, although also birds, fish, arthropods, reptiles and molluscs. These definitions show that speed and efficiency in action are required to prevent the advance of these adverse factors. Well, twelve years have passed since the approval of the catalogue and there are only three approved plans, 1.5%. It's no accident, it's not a lack of money or a lack of time, it's a lack of political will. They don't comply with the law because they interfere with the economic model you're defending. The example of the sugarcane writer has already been set here. When do you intend to act to curb the process of extinction of this species? There are 20 couples left. When do you plan to act? Or are you going to do like this ad coming out of the lynx? "Well, there's still a couple, there's still time," right? It's just that he falls from the drawer, he should finish the debate here. Is it necessary to pass a law on the last day of July because it's urgent? No, what's urgent is having a government that wants to defend this country's environment. For example, what about the landscape guidelines, the landscape guidelines promised in December 2016 by Mr. Feijóo for 2017? They would be approved in 2017, Mr. Feijóo said. We're in the summer of 2019 and they're still not approved. Casualty? I was saying the counselor that things must be done well, calmly. We must do things well and quietly like this law, that even the deadlines of the Rules of Procedure had to be breached. For the landscape guidelines are not approved to allow the wind farms that are being deployed in this country this year, before 2020. Because if they were approved, many of these parks or they wouldn't be implanted or otherwise implanted. And when the landscape guidelines are approved, evil will already be consolidated, there will already be 150-metre aerogeors in Mouriños, in Forcada punishment, in Laxe, in Mondoñedo, in Paradela, or even in the Natura Network, as is happening in the Oribio greenhouse. In the Natura Network, an wind park is being installed with works that are destroying even turbulence, an ecosystem as much as preserving as that one is. And that's where we see once again the systemic corruption in the People's Party. Following the environmental processing of the park that is intended to be installed in the Oribio saw, one is found with such curious questions as that on June 19, 2005 were the elections in which the Bipartisan Government won, and on June 23 — four days later, and with a functioning government — there is a resolution in which public information and environmental study is submitted the authorization and declaration of public utility for the approval of the project for the execution of the sectoral project of the facilities that includes the Oribio wind farm project. This goes into public information early in July, and the deadline ends on August 11, 2005. Well, by chance, the People's Party Government, on August 12, when the deadline for public information ended on August 11, approves the declaration of environmental impact of the Oribio wind farm project on one day! We've spent more than two years with Touro's environmental impact statement, and this worked out one day. It's not the same — you see — to be a friend of the People's Party in environmental processing that's not the case, is it? When you have good friends in the administration, things go very fast. Nor did it prevent the law from extending the Natura Network. And the Natura Network, a European Union recommendation to a country which has an average protected space much smaller than in the state and which in Europe does not extend for the same reason, for the spousal reason of defending economic interests. It's been a long time since it smells very bad in the General Directorate of Energy and Mines, it's been working for too long for interests that aren't the general interests. You pay public salaries for private gain. Well, they intend to adopt a text that will not solve anything, that makes the situation worse, and that has issues, in this translation of state law to Greek, which worsens state law. For example, something for which there is no explanation, for which we did not get an explanation, is the limitation of the surface of natural parks, which is set to a limit of 10,000 hectares, and of 2,500 when they are islanders. With this criterion, of the six natural parks in Galicia today, it would only be one. With this criterion, what they want is that no more natural parks are declared in the country, because they bother them. Let us explain the arguments behind this proposal, please; because, if this is a debate, it is for the arguments to be presented. We are delighted to hear why this limitation, what is the limit and why it has become limited. On the other hand, you're left with self-government. When you have the possibility of having tools that we use from here to fight the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, you prefer to delegate to the state or to Europe, as is the case with the German catalogue of invasive exotic species that you refuse to create, so that we become dependent on the state and European catalogues. And then we'll have less chance to fight one of the main threats to biodiversity, because we'll have less agility and less chance to declare an exotic and invasive species, because we have to depend on a reality in the state, a reality in Europe, to make a species declared as exotic invasive. You'll have to spare them. We could have a Greek catalogue, but you don't want it, you don't want it. For what! They're nothing but trouble for you. As for the custody of the territory, it's a little thoughted law, it's obvious; it's an improvised, little thoughted law with little conviction. You don't believe that, and therefore you don't work, you don't talk to people, you don't speak to the custody authorities of the territory, which, as far as I know, don't come from the communist countries. They themselves report that the situation of the custody authorities of the territory is not improved. It doesn't improve because the law isn't working, and it doesn't incorporate many of the requests that are of common sense; for example, we're going to encourage the custodial entities of the territory with offices that promote their work, which support their work, which is being in many cases much more efficient than that of the Public Administration, unfortunately. On the other hand, the economic memory itself says that the adoption of this law will not entail any increase in the budgets applied to these policies. Of course, things cost money, we have to put on resources, and this law is not committed to increasing any resources. Conservation of wetlands. Sixteen years have passed since Ibader made the Galician Wetlands Inventory. Only five who are of international importance are protected; the rest are not, even if they are of state or autonomous importance. We asked for the update of that inventory, and we were denied our amendment to wetlands update. No wonder, we see how you do infrastructure projects, obviously taking advantage of the wetlands, which are cheaper for expropriation and therefore cementing or asphalting the wetlands, which they want. Why are they going to put protection figures on them if it's then a rush to make a road or to make a bridge? That's right. Well, it's the subordination to urbanism, as has already been said here, and as they've done, by the way, on the Master Plan of Nature Network, with that of "except in matters of general public interest", which there always hangs everything. Nor did Mr Trenor answer me for why there is no line of policies also against one of the threats to biodiversity and against the hydraulic regime in this country, which are the eucalyptus, nor why codes of good agricultural practice are there, and not codes of good forest practice. They didn't even argue. There's nothing against the eucalyptusization of the country and the protected spaces. In short, environmental protection is an obstacle for you and for those who work for you. They don't comply with the law, they don't put forth any effort to make a good law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u21	So we're going to vote against this law, but in addition, remembering that what this country needs most is not a good law — that needs it — but a government that believes that natural heritage is something we have to preserve to leave to the next generations, which is something basic to our development as a country and even as an alternative economic model of the depredation that you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u23	Thank you, President. I want to do the first thing is to greet the people who accompany us in the guest gallery, because they are people who work every day in the territory for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. They belong to associations and organizations that do it daily, and they wanted to bring their knowledge to this bill that comes to plenary today. But you didn't let them contribute. That's the vision you have of the environment, Counselor. For you, the Environmental Council is a pose. And, for you, this law that is going to pass today is another number, exclusively. Actually, I don't know where you'd be this weekend. The entire Galicia knew that another ecological organization was bringing its badge ship, Rainbow Warrior, the Arousa Village for the defense of the environment and the fight against the climate crisis, and no one from its council — nor, of course, anyone from the Government of Galicia—though to be invited— had the only detail to visit the ship. Probably because you have the environment and the climate crisis, you care about a radish, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat again that your counseling is a pose--I can't say "raban" at best, I don't know... [[Murmurs.]] It seems to you that they don't care too much, perhaps you follow Mr. López Veiga's line, that we will all remember him for being a magnificent fisherman when the Prestige sank, and that he actually defended the environment and did not actually let the ship enter the port of Vigo. Well, that's a good way for you to defend the environment. Today we've come here to a full extraordinary occasion for you to pass a number more, a law that will cash into your very scarce account of laws in this legislation. You're going to approve a text that you've announced in 2017, which will replace your law of 18 years ago that you haven't met, that you haven't planned and that you haven't even developed legally, of course, with plans for conservation and recovery of species. They pick my fingers with one hand, and they still brush my fingers, to talk about the conservation and recovery plans of species that you've approved in ten years. And from what we can see -- and here's the writing of the canaries -- it's no use for much, Counselor. I don't know if you think with this law we're going to curb the loss of biodiversity. Because I suppose they also know that the European Commission is going to open a sanction procedure for Spain by Galicia, because Galicia's Natura 2000 Master Plan is very generic, incomplete and not adapted to space needs. And also because protected spaces have no management plan. You've been ruling with an absolute majority for ten years, you don't need us absolutely for nothing to the opposition groups, in fact they told us in the commission themselves -- the rapporteur said they were very generous because they had an absolute majority and with that absolute majority they didn't need us absolutely for nothing. They don't need eco-organizations, they don't need opposition groups, and that's probably why you're going to pass this law alone today, Counselor. You didn't let them talk — as it has been said — about the ecological organizations. We asked for it by Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure and they said no. They did not accept only claims during the public exposure phase. They came here saying that in the whole amendment debate they had accepted nearly 65% of the allegations. I'll set an example. I've already put it in the Commission and I'm going to put it back. The Galician Natural History Society made 33 claims to the draft law and you accepted 4. But it's just that we made 113 amendments. You accepted 4, and 3 were traded. We were dispatched with these three sheets — three, not two and a little —: this is yes, no, this is yes and this is not... In the presentation process they cited them three times, and it lasted barely an hour. Even we had to use the Socialist Parliamentary Group to offer us the possibility of Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and to ask for the Committee's debate article by article. Because there was no debate in the press, we had no debate of any kind. It was article by article, and the President of the Commission himself had to call by telephone to ask us to take him to a small reduction, because it was a hundred and peak articles and, if not, we would not end in many hours. You made the House staff work when they didn't have to be working so many hours on the same commission. It lasted the debate of the law around four or five hours. He did so bad that even the People's Parliamentary Group — not a preliminary draft of its Government — made 10 amendments. They took 1 away, and those 9 who were still alive had to change 2 because the Rural Council realized they were badly done. And out of time they put 2 other amendments that they wanted to deal with with the opposition parliamentary groups. This is your interest, yours, that of President Feijóo, that of the entire People's Party and that of the People's Parliamentary Group for the environment in Galicia. None! That's why our group is going to vote on this bill. We can't take part, and I'll take the words of one of the people who's also in the guest gallery. [[Murmurs.]] President, I would like you to speak a little bit lower, because there's a run, run since I started my intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u24	Quiet, quiet, everybody! I'm here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much for helping. Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Vilan, you can go on, there's not only a whisper, that sounds like it always. There's no problem. Please continue. And the others keep the silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u25	I'm going to paraphrase one of the people who came to talk to us, who owns several properties in the Natural Park of the Fries of the Eume and who said that this law is an absolute farce. And that's what it is. It's true, it's an absolute farce. The opposition groups, the ecological organizations, the people who actually work in the territory every day and, by the way, the people who are nature and biodiversity conservation experts have been invited as simple stone guests. But that's also his idea of democracy, and that's the really sad thing. We said in the debate of the amendment to the whole that we wanted to participate in this law, we wanted to help improve the text, because for that we are here. But they didn't leave us. And I repeat that we will not participate in this farce. You must have done a preliminary analysis of the law of the year 2001, of the problems that really exist in Galicia for the conservation of the territory, nature and biodiversity, open up a real process of participation and from then on make a bill. That's how laws are made, Counselor. Don't move your head, because you didn't, you didn't, you didn't. This law will not solve the problems of natural heritage in Galicia, it will only serve to be one more number, one number on the law account of this session period. You're going very bad, you're doing very bad in this legislation in the passage of laws. And that's why they put this law to us in the discount period at an extraordinary plenary session. On the contrary, our amendments were based on a real situation in the territory, and I told them the day I went up here to discuss the amendment to the whole of En Marea. We left a draft in 2008. Look, he stayed in his office, and he noticed if we cared, and we cared. They collect what all those people who are up there have told us and all the people who are experts in protecting the natural heritage and biodiversity that they have collaborated with us. This is a law that is already born evinced, because you didn't accept them. I repeat, it was 7 of 113. This law will not give effect to the constitutional right that people have to enjoy an adequate environment. It's a right on a paper but a little more. It doesn't focus on the social function of natural heritage and biodiversity, and we don't understand it very well. It does not empower participation, nor does the Advisory Committee to channel the participation of landowners within the natural parks or the Council of the Galician Natural Parks Network as a consultative body. You barely mention the Galego Observatory of Biodiversity, which has existed since 2007. It must be that, as you didn't create it, they don't like it, they don't take part. It's like he didn't exist. They're all experts who're gonna bother us... It imposes deadlines too long to solve the procedures: two years to solve a procedure when we live at the time of computer science, Counsellor. You're able to give subsidies to certain municipalities on a weekend, with that speed, but you're not able to solve a procedure within two years. It does not accept that local administrations are aware of agreements with local custodial authorities. We were told by committee that it was because these agreements are between administrations and individuals. It must be that the municipalities are not an administration. It denies that administrative silence is estimating, and so what you do is to discourage even more the participation of society. Run away from transparency. We're asking you for an annual report on the state and forecast of the protection of the natural heritage, and that you come here every year and you realize it. The rapporteur of the People's Group told us that you are already in state law and that you have already explained that report to the State. Well, we could close Parliament, because, in total, what it's for... because I don't know very well why we're here. This law will not protect the environment because it does not force environmental protection to prevail over any other norm, nor will it even protect the spaces that should be protected. You don't even know how to regulate the Natura Network in one chapter. It's spread by the text, on the one hand and on the other. There's not even structural policy coherence. It sets minimum physical limits — as the previous rapporteurs have said — for the declaration of new natural parks. You made a copy and took the wrong state law. It's a cold; and, apart from everything, it's a bad fried cold. You don't understand the figure of the custody of the territory. And it won't be because they told him once and a thousand times. They left the wetlands unprotected and do not include the protection of the marine areas, because, totally — even if we were told in the commission — it makes no sense that they are in this law. Well, that's it, we also closed the laughs that, in total, for what they serve... It's a law that has no economic commitment. We proposed the creation of a fund for the conservation of Galician natural heritage and they said no. Well, it's also true that there's no budget forecast in this law and that you're going without budget, from 2008 to 2018, more than 30% of the law that's still in force. They did not accept a general scheme of compensatory aid and measures for those people who have limitations because they live in protected territories, in protected spaces, in natural parks. What about the inhabitants of the natural parks? Why don't you guys worry about them? They're completely forgotten. Moreover, they also rejected our proposal for sustainable development plans as elements that would improve the use and management plans and improve the quality of life of these people. You forgot biodiversity, you didn't even go into the title of the law -- neither in the project nor in the project. We did not accept the creation of a German register of biological and genetic material banks; nor did we accept the creation of yellow catalogues of invasive species, following that line of President Feijóo's not asking for more powers to the state, of that self-governing, which is what you defend. They were not even able to commit themselves to a deadline to develop the law — perhaps copying the previous law, which has not been regulated for 18 years, perhaps also copying the Hunting Act or the Animal Welfare Act, which do not have regulations either. Finally, they use this law to amend their own Law on the implementation of business initiatives in relation to Sogama without even submitting a report to the General Legal Counsel. But they did not accept our amendment to repeal the fourth transitional provision of the Galician Wind Use Act of 2009. And so they are absolutely uncontrollable — and so they will continue to be — wind farms over natural parks. In short, you're going to pass this law because you have an absolute majority, an absolute majority of the knee. But they're very generous, they've even wasted their time positioning themselves on all our amendments — according to what we were told in the committee. We're still going to have to apologize for doing well, I'd say very well, almost 350 amendments by all groups — almost 340, therefore by the opposition groups. We did our job very well. In your ideal world this is one more law, one more number for the normative balance. Unfortunately, in the real world this law is a missed opportunity for Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u27	Good morning, gentlemen. A greeting also to the people who accompany us in this debate. I thought there would be more people, because it was the hemicycle before full of socialist badges. But it seems that environmental issues matter much less to them than their voices say. [[Applause]] No, sorry, when I talk about socialist badges, I don't mean those who are here, who also have my respect, I mean the guests who were at the first hour, when we started this plenary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, Mrs. Vilán, it's wrong to cheat. And it's even worse to deceive and miss the truth. And if you're going to play my words, please don't manipulate them, don't alter them. Do it literally. This voicer never told you what you said here that I had said, it's not true. When a person doesn't tell the truth, he's lying. And you do it, in addition, usually. He seemed to like it. The commissions are recorded and we can go see them, but since they're not transcribed, you must think it's easier. Look, anyway, I never told you what you said. What I told you is that this group was going to work for consensus, that we were going to make transactions, that we were going to study all the amendments, that we were going to stand in all the amendments, either in favor or against, and also with the transactions. What we are not going to accept is that a minority group — its group, which has 14 Members — has boycotted this law and imposed the roll of the minority on this law. That's what this spokesman said. But you have what you want to stay with. Look, there were no more meetings in the presentation because you didn't want to, because the rest of the groups were already willing to hold a meeting on Thursday and you didn't, because you couldn't. I wanted to meet you on Friday morning too, and you didn't want to because you had other things, too. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, if you tell me you can't because you have to go to a commission, because you have the alternate, you can send the alternate. But no, because these issues are just you and he doesn't want anyone else to touch them. On Saturday we couldn't stay to talk about the law either, no, because you work on a Saturday you didn't seem to be able to. You told me not on Saturday. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On Saturday I offered you and I told me not because they weren't the services of the House. So don't tell me you did. Oh, but that's what you said. You grabbed one because you couldn't, the other by your schedule and the other by the services of the House, so if you listened, there wouldn't be a meeting. Moreover, she agreed to meet on Friday afternoon because you thought the lawyer would say she couldn't come. And, as the lawyer came, you were upset. But if not, we'd be out for a whole week without a presentation meeting. A whole week! Mrs Vilán, of course, will have to do a lot of work for the Socialist Party, she will have to work a lot for her party, but we must also work for the Greeks, Mrs Vilán, we must also work for the Greeks. [[Applause]] Mr. Bará, I don't usually enter your provocations, your pulleys, your beauties as a nun. No, I'm not trying to get into it. I know your speech doesn't do it for all the Greeks and the Greeks, it does it for your parish, an increasingly small parish. But you know you have to have a very specific, very specific speech to be happy with. Then, well, I can't go in. But I'll tell you something. Look, don't talk about the violation of the regulation. You say very serious things. And I think that sometimes we have to measure what we say. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, is not true, because this group scrupulously respects the Rules and the rules that we all have given ourselves. But I want to remind you that, when you ruled, when you were in the Bipartite, you passed laws in which you had only once met in Phoenicia. They made the constitution session, the closing session and the deliberation of a certain law as important as, for example, that of transparency in one day, in one day! With which, Mr Bará, before making recommendations to others, look at what you do. Look, when you talk about putting a gun on them, you have to have some proper control of the language. Guns are the ones that use those terrorist groups that you don't condemn. You refuse to condemn those groups, with which you also take care of language. But, look, ladies and gentlemen, today we have concluded the parliamentary procedure of a law that is called to be the most important of this legislation, since we are talking about the law, because if you have not yet found out, it will protect our rich natural heritage, guarantee Galician biodiversity, bet on its sustainable conservation and preserve it for future generations. Whereas in other communities, ladies and gentlemen, there is an absolute paralysis in the legislative system, the stability that emerged from the last elections in Greece, which has set up a majority group capable of producing new laws and also of supporting a government that is dedicated to ruling and does not waste time in ongoing crises between political parties, allows Galicia to be once again ahead of what is happening in the rest of the state. There's a stability that allows us to have budgets in time and form, which, for example, made us grow last year two tenths more than in the rest of the state; stability, management and legislative production, lords, which may not like the opposition, which prefers a scene dominated by chaos and the continuing struggle. That's how you've been in the last three years and it wouldn't be different this time. This law, ladies and gentlemen — as much as you deny it — has been dealt with in dialogue. After it was adopted at the Council of the Union, it was put to the public exhibition, so that all those interested in our natural heritage and our diversity could make their arrivals, in particular through collectives or other administrations. More than a thousand approaches were received, of which 637, or 65%, were estimated to have substantially enriched the text for us. I did them in the previous debate, in the amendment to the whole set up by the En Marea group, which you applauded and followed with great joy, a story told by some who had been accepted and the articles that were modified. For example, the Galician Natural History Society incorporated allegations that modified 12 articles — 12 articles were modified by contributions from the Galician Natural History Society — 8 articles were modified through the claims of Adega; College of Biologists, 5; College of Montes Engineers, too. The same was done with those of the IGC — and I have already told you that it is not very suspicious to be close to the People's Party —: 4 articles were modified by the IGC proposal; and also by UXT, Workers' Committees, the Labour Union, Biosphere Reserves, the University of Coruña, the Confederation of Galicia Entrepreneurs and many other entities. There was dialogue, the entities heard and many allegations were accepted. What happens, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have a very special concept of dialogue. For you the dialogue is absolutely amenable to 100 percent of what you say. They just don't admit that there may be counter-proposals, they don't admit that you can estimate 50 percent of your proposals. It's just that we have to accept one hundred percent. And if you don't accept 100 percent, is that you don't have the capacity for dialogue? Home!, I think dialogue isn't that; at least, it's not what our group is used to doing, nor is it what I think we should have in our community. But, well, if you think that dialogue is going with a hundred measures and that the Administration, or the interlocutor you have, must approve the 100 measures because, if not, there is no dialogue, my friend, that is not dialogue, it is not dialogue! It's to make him look. But if this was not enough, then there was the procedure of public participation that Parliament itself has, the "legislation with us", so anyone could make the contributions that he considered necessary, anyone! A procedure as valid as that of appearance, which Mr. Sánchez said. But besides, this group worked to make this law a consensual text. We've studied each and every one of the amendments you've made. We accept a lot of them, and what we don't accept, we say why, explaining each one of them. We made compromise proposals on their amendments and also on our amendments, and we looked for a text of consensus. We accept Amendments 1, 2, 12, 13, 24, 32, 68, 91, 92, 96, 97, 112 and 113 of the Nationalist Block of Wales; 18, 22, 25, 59 and 73 of En Marea; and 18, 20, 30 and 89 of the Socialist Group. We offer a dozen transactions, even on our own. You didn't propose a single transaction, not a single transaction! They did not propose any changes to their amendments. Because you understand that they're either admitted to all the amendments or that there's no dialogue. A total of 37 amendments were approved. We couldn't approve all of them, of course not. But it was impossible for us to do so, it was impossible. You presented amendments that suppressed a very important part of the articulate, which distorted the new law and left behind many of the aspects related to our natural spaces and the conservation of biodiversity. For example, the Socialist Party has introduced three suppression amendments which, if accepted, would involve the elimination of the regulation of the fight against pests that may affect rare threatened species and habitats; also provisions for the protection of poultry against collision with electric lines, or for the protection of poultry in the development of the wind sector. That's what you wanted to suppress. You presented amendments that collected aspects that were already collected in other articles of the law. It's like they haven't read the whole law and they've already started making the amendments. I'm going to go to article 1, for the amendment; in article 4, three amendments... When, perhaps, in article 10, and in article 11, there were the amendments you proposed. But they still didn't remove them. They kept the amendments alive to say they didn't approve the amendments. I don't know, I think, in the amendment process, the rigor that has to have to be quite different. Or, for example, you presented amendments that the only thing they did was change the order of words of an article, without which it implied that it changed meaning, without involving it. And there were many amendments. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, most of the amendments showed a great disregard of the law of 2007 — which is the basic legislation on which this law is based — as well as other European standards, and would generate great uncertainty and legal insecurity. But even though most of the amendments didn't make sense to approve them, and despite the effort for every agreement that the majority group made, you might be surprised at all the Greeks and Greeks adopting a responsible and constructive stance. But no, no, you bet on confrontation, absolute absence of collaboration, and also -- why not -- lack of the slightest rigour. You said not to everything, you even checked the possibility that the transactions could be voted on. That did the Socialist Party, which it seemed very bad that there were compromise proposals and that they could vote. You, with your minority, with 14 Members, don't want it, don't want there to be dialogue and vote on things in this Parliament. Just as you have 10 Members, you didn't want to, with your amendment, even if this law hadn't come into the debate and if you could vote — Mr Sánchez, remember, right? I understand, very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you understand how most people work. I think that's what you didn't understand, of course. I also don't know if you know what the minimum standards of living should be in organizations. [[Applause]] And so they also ended the two organizations in which you have militated, both In Marea and Alternative Left Gaga, which started with many more Members than those who have finished. Maybe they had to make themselves look at what's going on so that the groups you're in can end up in like this, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the effective protection of our heritage cannot depend on the partisan agenda of the opposition. And the adoption of this law is a commitment from this group and from the Government that is supporting it. We are faced with an ambitious law that will renew and adapt to current times and needs a text that is already 18 years old. Thanks to this new text, Galicia will be the first community to fully adapt autonomous legislation to the state—after the last two changes, which were perhaps the most important—. I would like to remind you that the Law on Natural Heritage and State Biodiversity has been amended six times since its adoption, the last two of which are of great importance, which required changes in our regulations. The new law bets on the sustainable development of natural spaces, ensuring, on the one hand, its conservation and, on the other hand, its use and enjoyment on the part of all Greeks and Greeks, and of those who visit us by contributing to the dynamization of the economy of geographic areas. We are very lucky to have a vast wealth of natural spaces that have a high value. "Value" was the word of another of the amendments to the Nationalist Block, which wanted us not to put the word "value" but the word "beauty." Well, this was the great contribution of the Nationalist Block to this text. We have spaces that have a high value, both at the natural, environmental and landscape level and in biodiversity and also in social and economic terms. The new regulatory framework introduces important news; for example, as an inspiring principle it incorporates scientific knowledge and establishes the duty of administrations and citizenship to respect and preserve our rich heritage. The role of environmental education is reinforced, the mechanisms of participation are highlighted, which guarantee public participation in the design and execution of our policies. It establishes mechanisms for collaboration with other administrations, private and private institutions, as well as with owners and users of the territory itself. It pushes compatible tourism models, forces new lines of electricity transport to minimize the risks to wildlife, and also designs good practice codes for our farmers and livestock. This Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity points to the work that has been developing the Union in recent years, and makes an important commitment to the conservation and protection of protected spaces. The new legal framework creates micro-reservations, a new figure that seeks to preserve and protect rare threatened species or habitats that are in a space with a reduced surface. That also didn't like the opposition, which I suppose that this tool, which is fundamental to the protection of rare threatened species or habitats, should not have settled in our legislation. Nor does the opposition want us to highlight the importance and exceptionality of natural parks, so that they are spaces with minimum surface, which have an established minimum surface requirement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u29	...to give you a larger entity, and to be continuous, that it is not fragmented, in a manner similar to what the state administration has done for national parks, which has set a minimum of hectares for this consideration. I don't know why the opposition doesn't want Galicia what it wants for the rest of the state. The scope of ENIL is broadened so they can understand integrated spaces in more than one municipality. New categories are set up as "protected space of the Nature Network", which includes the LIC, ZEC and the ZEPA, which will give them greater protection by including them on the Greek network of protected spaces, greater protection, which the Socialist Party does not like either. They tabled amendments to remove all articles that reinforce the protection of the Natura 2000 Network. I suppose they'll be thinking about doing another "PSOE Village" in some protected space and they don't want this law to be able to obstruct those real estate aspirations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u30	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Time's up. Before we get into the replica shift, we're going to clear up a situation, because I was in that debate. Mr. Trenor, Mr. Bará used an expression, referring to the speed with which the law was dealt, metaphorically. He said "a gun in his chest" and it was always metaphorical. It's good to clarify this so nothing else stays in the environment. He referred to the use of "pistola in the chest" in a metaphorical sense, about the speed with which the law was processed. Nothing else. [[Murmurs.]] That's what I think is part of an expression that is often used without more. I think it's all clear. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u31	Thank you again, President. I think the positions of each group have already been exposed here. We are, of course, going to vote against this law because of many of the issues that have already come out here. First of all because of this despotic attitude in which the processing of the law itself was done, as far as it meant in time. Mr Bará is right. And he himself read the article that says so. The People's Party in this House has skipped regulation. We're also going to vote against the veto that has existed for civil society and for ecological and conservationist organizations to participate in drafting this law. We don't know who wrote it, we don't know if it happened like the review of the forest plan, which they did from Madrid, where that increase in eucalyptus plantation area is expected. Looks like Ence might be behind the forest plan review. We don't know who can be behind this new law. We shall also vote against the non-existence of a real economic commitment to protect our spaces, for an almost null compromise. Also for a small mention throughout the whole text of both education and environmental awareness. We think this must be one of the pillars of this new law, especially our children, our fish and fish. They must be the ones who carry this flag ahead. It has also been said here that the exploitation, along and wide of the country, of the territories. There are, unfortunately, hundreds and hundreds of examples all over the country. And that shows that this Galician Union is not to protect our territory, but rather to the contrary: to predify it in favor of companies and corporations. The lack of control of forest activities is not only causing irreparable damage to our natural environment, but also to the entire cultural heritage that we have spread throughout the country, which we see as day after day is trampled by large machines without the Unity of Galicia doing anything at all. We're also talking about alloctone species, invasive species. When there is a serious catalogue of invasive exotic species, not only the eucalyptus but many more that exist, then we'll start talking. And also for sanctions, the sanctions regime is beneficial; especially for companies that are using our mount to fill their pockets in exchange for destroying it. We also want, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, to thank the collectives here for the work they have done, to give you all the steps you can and to make available to us for whatever you need. We know that the Union doesn't go next to you because it doesn't care that there are collectives and that there are people who really protect our heritage. But we will try to be there and thank you, of course, for your work. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u32	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u33	Look, Mr. Trenor, it looks very nice and very elegant to greet the entities and the people who accompany us in the audience, but these collectives and entities what they asked for, what they wanted, was to come here and come to Parliament, not just to listen, but to come and talk. And you forbid them to speak, you forbid them to give their view of this law, because they fear it. [[Applause]] They fear the public criticisms they've made these weeks, that they've made a real amendment to the whole law. And that's why they watched these entities participate in the parliamentary process of law. Yeah, like that, like that. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, do we have to explain again how the laws are handled? In fact, there are pre-hearing procedures, there are public information procedures, then the Board of Trustees approves it, then there are another series of proceedings, and then it comes to Parliament. Sometimes it comes with a lot of changes, but of course, not those six hundred that you said you accepted. That's a lie like a cathedral, or like a hedge — which is also a cathedral, a great natural monument, of course. Look, I'm going to read the article, because you guys don't know each other, you don't want to hear or you want to lie shamelessly. Rule 115.3 of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament : "The Parliament responsible for drafting the report may establish a hearing procedure for senior officials of the Galician Union, expert persons and representatives of social groups who may be particularly affected by the matter on which the bill is to be viewed." And we've put forward a proposal for you to come here to this hearing process of these four entities as representation. And you've been vetoed, you've been vetoed. You veto the participation of the entities of society who are working day by day selflessly, giving up their time to defend our cultural heritage. They don't let them come here to talk, they just let them come here to listen, to see and to shut up. Well, no, we don't accept that, of course. The reality is that, that you've left five days to process the law when you actually plan at least fifteen and extendable. And then you here use bad-paying excuses. Because if it was wrong in the past, what's the matter, that's a reason to do it wrong now? No, we'll try to do it right now, better than in the past. But you use that argument to do it wrong. [[Murmurs.]] Then I told him about the processing he had this text and how long it's been stopped. Because you take a couple of anecdotes of speeches and use those anecdotes, but you have not been able here to override any of the fundamental arguments that we have given all groups, none!, of the systematic and scandalous non-compliance of all the legislation passed in the last eighteen years, of systematic non-compliance. And, of course, at the time of the Bipartite there was a great normative impulse that you then paralyze. I've already told you a very clear example. The threat species is a real scandal. There's a sanctioning file on the Natura Network because you haven't made any management plans. It's not just that they didn't expand the network, they didn't make the management plans. But in addition, the General Juridical Council did in the process a true suit to this law, which forced it to modify each and every article of the law. Curiously, then they made a trick out there, because the General Legal Counsel report is May 7th, and the advisor approves the text also on May 7th, curiously. But on May 8th, the Director General makes all the changes the General Legal Advisory sends. A real chapuza for making things quick and running! That's how the laws come out! Look, you're certainly not up to the challenges of the times, and there's big threats, big alarms on the horizon. Last few weeks, the UN report on the alarming loss of biodiversity in the world, which draws an absolutely apocalyptic future. And you don't seem to want to know. There is also the recent report by the state observatory on sustainability, which makes an absolutely catastrophic and apocalyptic forecast of climate change, climate emergency in our country, with a forecast also for the next few decades. This obliges radical and profound change not only in biodiversity policies, not only in nature conservation policies, but in all policies. Because that is the way to really deal with this huge challenge, starting with economic policies, with those predation policies that we told you here. You, of course, had no arguments. Your program, as I told you, is that of deprotection, destruction and depredation. Your program, in addition, can be summarized in this campaign that now a Welsh humorist, Kiko da Silva, has baptized as "The Meme Mountain", because you also said in the Tourism Plan that the main threats to tourism and the image of Galicia were the deterioration of the landscape and heritage. This is the Galician People's Party, this is what you sell as tourist attraction. For all these reasons, of course, we are going to vote decisively, clearly, roundly, not to this wrong legal text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u34	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u35	Good morning. Mr. Trenor, in the absence of arguments, very predictably you came to throw balloons out, provoke and sweep the ground. I'm not going to fall into the trap. I'm just going to tell you I've never been in an organization condemned by corruption. I've never been in an organization judged to destroy the hard disks in which there could be evidence of systematic corruption since its birth, of the bills in "b" and of the fees of bites and commissions on the part of those companies for which you were legislating from the different governments, which they paid for, and that you were charged with envelopes and money "b" in dirty money. [[Applause]] I've never been to that organization, Mr. Trenor. You also talked about stability in Galicia. I want you to see the difference: one thing is stability is another is rigor mortis. What this government has is rigor mortis. And if you move for something, it's always against our country. Because you're the worst threat to natural heritage. And I say I'm the worst threat because you're the ones who should be defending our natural heritage, our country, our aggressions, and, on the other hand, we have the collaborators needed to increase these aggressions at their speed by legislating in favour of those interests, as in the Predation Law, and even by facilitating the non-compliance of the law. There are a lot of examples I could put to them, like what I was saying before the Oribio saw. There are collectives who have been asking for the Oribio wind farm modification project six months ago to see if it's true that it's a non-substantial modification of the wind park. Because, if it were substantial, that park couldn't be done on Natura Network. And they've been waiting for six months for that documentation because you don't give it to them. And it's no coincidence. You collaborate with that company in this very serious environmental aggression. You said, "The most important law of this legislation." They have a spectacular face! "The most important law, because it will guarantee the protection of the heritage of our biodiversity..." Yes, yes, and it doesn't get colored! Sure, look, the law doesn't guarantee anything, Mr. Trenor, the law doesn't guarantee anything. And if you don't, come here and answer that this is what Law 9/2001 has guaranteed to preserve Galician nature. Before the systematic failure of that law by the government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, what have you guaranteed? what data do you have about the loss of biodiversity that makes you believe that you are the guarantors of defense of that biodiversity? None! You've been complicit in the loss of biodiversity. Its model is a constant attack on natural heritage, both in the forest sector and in the mining sector, and in the energy sector, as well as in the fight against climate change. You don't want to enter the million that really produces climate change: the energy model, the urban model, the mobility model. You say nice words, but then, where greenhouse gas emissions occur, you don't want to act because they're owned by Naturgy, Endesa, Audasa, etc. Beautiful words and nothing else! And from behind, attacking the natural heritage. That's the truth, there's no other truth. It is the worst of corruption: to occupy public administrations to defend the general interest and, on the other hand, to be using all the sources, so powerful, in the face of citizenship and to attack what they should defend. And they come here to teach lessons after their history. You have not rejected any of the arguments that have been put here on the table. Because here they put a lot of arguments on the table. And you're talking about dialogue. For dialogue, there must be arguments. You have to listen and you have to answer the arguments honestly. And you're the only one doing here is to come up with provocation and insult. This country's greatest battle in these years, in addition to poverty, social exclusion and labour exploitation, is the battle against the police and looting of the country, and against the aggression and looting of the environment. It's just getting rid of people's hands, organized citizenship, as in "Never again." When the Government circumvents its responsibilities and betrays its representatives, it is the very citizenship it has to wage this battle, because unfortunately we are alone, without any government that defends us in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u36	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u37	Thank you, President. Mr. Trenor, it's good that you start by greeting the organizations that are up there, I think it's time for the greeting, because it seems to me that in the law study you haven't seen him before because he didn't call them. It's good that health now, it's okay. [[Applause]] Which I've already told you in the commission. I didn't want to repeat it here again, but you're forcing me to do it. The work of each and every one of us in this Parliament, in the committees and in the plenary, knows each one. And in the committee I gave him a quote: apart from the amendments from all the opposition groups and how many of you have accepted, I have done 107 environmental initiatives in Commission 2nd and you have done 6, Mr Trenor. So, what everyone thinks is portrayed in writing, is in the Parliamentary Register. And what everyone says in this Parliament is also recorded. It's true, I don't care if you tell me I'm lying. I don't care about that, Mr. Trenor, I don't care exactly. The worst thing is that you come here, you lie to all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and still above you believe that you will believe your own lies when you speak of a law that will not solve any problem because it is a law that has already been born -- again repeated -- empty, Mr. Trenor, because you have completely ruled participation. So much so that we have had to ask from the Socialist Group for the article-by-article debate under Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, which has never been done. A historic debate! So much so that the President of the Commission had to call us to ask us to group the articles by chapters, because otherwise we would not finish again. We had to ask for the debate article by article because you gave us little — a weekend and a full half — five days for the presentation. That's the reality, Mr. Trenor. You just need to see the dates. You don't tell the truth, you don't tell the truth. The truth is, yours here today was a paperboard, it was a paperboard. By the way, with very little rigour, Mr Trenor. And I would like to repeat that 10 amendments from the People's Parliamentary Group have had to remove them, 10 amendments from a group, a party, which has 41 Members and an absolute majority, and they've been ruling for ten years. From 10, they had to withdraw one, supposedly, because it was wrong. And 2 came out of time, Mr. Trenor! The Rural Councilmanship went to the Environment Council because these amendments were badly done. That's reality, and you don't come to wear us here. I don't know what. 10.7 good, supposedly, and 3 bad. For that is his rigor; an effectiveness, his, well-compromised. By the way, I'm going to give you two examples. You just said that we were asking that we take all the protection from the bird. No, we are asking that, in addition to the fact that birds are protected — for example, in front of the high-voltage towers — they also protect their chiropters, bats, because bats don't lay eggs, they're not birds, they're mammals. And that's how they accepted our amendment. That means we're not asking you to delete that article; otherwise, that amendment could not be accepted, it wouldn't exist, Mr. Trenor. So read the amendments. And then, so much so that you confuse the amendment of BNG, which I asked to replace "beauty" with "value," and you came here saying, as if the amendment was yours, "value" with "beauty." No, no, it was the BNG, it wasn't you, and it went backwards. That means you came here today to make a paperboard, a paperboard of a purely decorative council and a purely decorative law. That's reality, there's no other. You can dress it as you like, but it's hard for them to create it outside, because these gentlemen and those ladies who are up there don't believe them, and they're the ones who run with the natural heritage every day; and they don't believe them, Mr. Trenor and Mrs. Counselor, don't believe them. Of course, it's hard to come here after having 10,000 trout dead in the Furelos River in Melide, knowing, when I was mayor, that this could happen. That's the environmental protection of his office. I'm going to say four things more than the amendments of the other groups, because we're going away or we're going to vote no. Some of us have asked for a separate vote. Most of them are because they don't agree with our own amendments. And by coherence we're going to abstain. And in the People's Party numbers 4, 5 and 8, because they walked through the back door and we can't accept it, we can't accept it. I told you at the commission and I'll tell you again. In 2, because you do not accept, in addition to what the article says, a report from the Council for the draft of plans for conservation and recovery of species. And that's why we're going to vote for abstention from those of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u39	Yes, Your Honor, I really feel so much that you have to miss about it. All you can prove is that you want to cover up your lack of arguments. And, besides, it's not very elegant. I remember one Member who also had record of initiatives in this House. And what I'd done was to present an initiative on the mobile park and then photocopied it two hundred times by the 200 cars that were in the mobile park and recorded them. You have recorded questions, you have recorded questions in committee, you have asked questions in... Mrs Vilan, sometimes you have to look at quality as well. And when you abuse the copy and take it... then you'll see why I say it, and you'll understand it. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Sánchez... do we respect speaking shifts or not? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That also costs them. Look, Mr. Sánchez, says the law doesn't guarantee anything. Of course, by saying these things I understand why you are so frustrated and why you have that permanent bad mood. To be in Parliament and believe that the laws guarantee nothing indicates and very well explains what their attitude is. Ladies and gentlemen, I can follow my entire intervention in this way, referring to you. But they didn't realize that this law transcends beyond us, the spokesmen we're here today, beyond the groups we're represented here, or the representation we have in this House. This law has five essential, important objectives, such as consolidating the prevalence of environmental protection over urban territorial management; ensuring the conservation, sustainable use and improvement and restoration of our natural heritage, as well as the Greek biodiversity; promoting public information and mechanisms of collaboration, cooperation and participation by society; adapting and regulating the Greek legislation to the state basic legislation; and updating and normalizing the Greek legislation of 2001, responding to the various problems and needs that have been detected over the years. Those are the big targets that pursue the new legal text. And in the face of these big targets, you had already fixed your opinion: not for the sake of it. They tabled an amendment to the whole so that you can't even speak in this House; and besides, with a series of completely false and wrong arguments, and I've already told them several times but they don't listen and they say I didn't explain them. I'll send you an e-mail to see if that's what they keep track of. I didn't care what we did, and what this group did, you already had the no. They didn't want this law. We did not expect much more from the Socialist Party; a party that, when no investments were made that contemplated the last approved state budgets, has shut down; a party that defended that the State budgets had been reduced from 9% to 6% — less badly that these budgets have been failed and not approved — that does not want to forgive the debt that it has contracted a port authority to make a haven but, however, they agree that the debts of entities that hired them to make irrigations are amortised; or that they now justify — and it is also intoxicating — that the State does not give us 700 million, 700 million deliveries to the most IVE account, 700 million that are ours, the Greeks and the Greeks, who are for health, who are for education and who are also for our environment. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I was talking to an old lady of the Gaga de Left Alternative of the complaints she made when she spoke another PSOE Member. She said that every time she brought an initiative to this Parliament, she would pick up, copy it and paste it, and register it as her own. But it is not only that she had made that record, but that when she did the interventions — the Alternative Galaga de Left — she then went to the PSOE and literally copied what she was saying. Then she said that this lady was walking around. And that's what the Socialist Party did with this law, stepping around. You bought the arguments of En Marea, you didn't have your own position. All they did here was reproduce or emphasize some of the arguments you made in Marea. I never thought I could agree with Podemos. You're not trustworthy, you just think in the cars. So that your leader, nothing else to go into the House, rather than be interested in the environment, education or health, was the date of the election. [[Murmurs.]] Dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, you speak, the Socialist Party, the dialogue, that Socialist Party that last week was unable to reach any agreement with any other political group. We saw him at the Bipartite, which I've already told you to approve the laws with a single P.O. meeting. You constituted the P.O. and closed it without the slightest debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u41	I regret that the greatest concern of the opposition had been to stay without two weeks of vacations. But it was very difficult to explain to the Greeks that a law as important as this had remained in the drawer because you were thinking about the beach, thinking about the mojitos, Mr Bará, instead of working, as is our obligation. [[Protests.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u42	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u43	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments to this debate. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Here's a request to separate them. I have here that the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has asked them to separate themselves from the amendments to the Block, in particular to 40, 41, 61, 66, 67 and 125 in a block. Then we started voting these. Vote of Amendments Nos 40, 41, 61, 66, 67 and 125 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 53; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u44	We are voting now — and from the seats that correspond to all of us — on a separate basis also the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales, which calls for the Socialist Party, which is 18, 22, 25, 26, 36, 70 and 95. Vote of Amendments Nos 18, 22, 25, 26, 36, 70 and 95 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 39; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u45	We now vote on the remaining amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P.'s amendments to the Galego Nationalist Block, except those already voted, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of Galicia's natural heritage. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u46	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. In particular, he asked for two separate blocks of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The first, with amendments 14 and 64. Vote of Amendments Nos 14 and 64 of the G.P. of En Marea, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 53; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u47	We now vote, also separately, a second block, which is Amendment Nos 9, 10, 13, 21, 23, 36, 39, 50, 61, 67, 74 and 76. Vote of Amendments Nos 9, 10, 13, 21, 23, 36, 39, 50, 61, 67, 74 and 76 of the G.P. of En Marea, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 39; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u48	We now vote on the remaining amendments from the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendments of the G.P. of En Marea, except those already voted, to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u49	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting of the amendments of the G.P of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u50	We are now voting on the Commission's statement. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of Galician natural heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-31-DSPG125.u51	The result is positive and therefore the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Law of Galicia is approved. [[Applause]] There's no more fears, because nothing, we're done here.
