ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, questions for oral answer by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the reasons for non-compliance with the existing transparency legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u3	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Núñez, in January 2019 you led a delegation from the Galician Union that made a trip to the United States for institutional purposes, for purposes of commercial and tourist promotion, for purposes of general interest to Galicia, thus paid by public funds from the Galician Union. In the midst of this journey, the secretary-general of his party, Pablo Casado, of the People's Party, announced a demonstration in Madrid, on the Colón square, accompanied by the far right, specifically the Vox party, that macho political force that calls for the abolition of autonomy and the derogation of the laws of struggle against gender violence. You, on a trip to the United States, announced the anticipation of your return from the institutional journey in order to be able to participate in that march of hatred. That forced him to cancel the flight back, which was scheduled for Sunday, to do it Saturday night, i.e. to take an emergency ticket, an interoceanic emergency ticket, to advance his return. We know — because it was confirmed by Government of Galicia sources — that this exchange of banknotes had an economic cost, which cost money; there was a difference between the planned cost and the cost ultimately resulting from its decision to turn to an act of party. Everyone knows, on the other hand, when he travels, that a cancellation of a flight at the last hour and taking another one at the last hour has some expenses and those expenses are very expensive. You therefore exchanged a ticket that was initially intended by another to meet the needs of your party, for purposes of particular interest. And therefore I ask you very clearly: Mr. Núñez Feijóo, first, who paid the difference in the cost of that trip? Secondly, how much did the difference between one trip and another cost? And thirdly, where is the documentary justification for these expenses? There are only two options — we understand —: either the President of the Galician Council, who would be normal, because he does an activity of particular interest — he joins a party act — or he pays it either to the Galician Council, a situation that would be absolutely intolerable, because it would be to use public money for the purposes of particular interest. In that case, it would be a blatant act of political corruption, paying with all the money and all a trip to an act of party. We want you to answer clearly: Are you using the money of all the Greeks and all the Greeks to go to the acts of the People's Party? If that's not the case — and we sincerely want to think that's not the case — tell us — you have the opportunity to do so — who paid the difference? How much did the difference cost? And where are the bills of that difference? Three months ago, we have recorded a parliamentary question since En Marea, which has not been answered today. These three questions I've just asked you are registered for three months, and we haven't received an answer from the Government. Fifteen days ago we forced a high office of his Government to explain this journey, asking him a total of eight questions, which remained unanswered, without answering. So, Mr President, we asked you directly — you have the opportunity to clarify this embarrassing situation — who paid that cost? Who paid that difference?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u5	Where's the justification? And what was the real cost of that trip difference? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u6	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Villares, for asking. I actually traveled to the United States, both Miami and New York. My schedule was public. I appreciate that you reflect the contents of the trip, a journey to take a delegation from companies in the contract sector, where we had the opportunity to meet with the principal managers of the Marriott hotel chain, which is the world's most important hotel chain, and also another kind of company, where we had the opportunity to have contacts with the Port of Miami, which is the largest port of cruises in America. I also thank you for your reference to the cultural content of the trip, where I had the opportunity to participate, the bodies of the Galician Council of Culture and at the invitation of the Galician Council of Culture, in an exhibition on emigration. And I appreciate your interest in that journey as well. That seems to me to be a very smart tide correction: first of all, this was a tourism trip and then you realized it was a journey with political content, economic content, cultural content. The question can't be simpler, and the answer can't be more specific: who paid for the change of travel? You have knowledge of travel agencies. In fact, sometimes when you change a ticket, that means an increase in cost, and in this case I assumed an increase in cost. Who paid for it? The People's Party of Galicia. Where's the bill? In the People's Party of Galicia. Do you want an invoice from the Galician People's Party to believe who paid the trip? I have no problem moving her, although you have no right to have her, no right to have her. What I am saying, Your Honor, is that, as President of the Galician Union, never a party act has been financed by the Galician Union since I was president, never. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, I am so pleased that you ask me this question. Mr. President, I will not use these fifty-one seconds because just everything the President of the Union does is in accordance with the law, and there is not a single euro of the People's Party of Galicia which is called upon to preside over the Council of Galicia, as it could not be otherwise. If you saw the ethical code that approved this party, which didn't exist in Galicia, you'd see that that's not possible. And do you know why we approve the ethical code? In order not to recur the problems of previous governments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u8	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, we sincerely thank your explanation and sincerely thank you for the correction of your Government. We are grateful for the correction of your Government because, after three months and thanks to us bringing this question to the plenary of Parliament, the German Government finally gives explanations. [[Laughter]] Until now, after three months, he was breaking the Transparency Law. That ethical code that you're referring to and I'm going to read at the moment was being breached. The institutional ethical code approved by the Union literally states in its paragraph (g) adopted by the Union in 2011: "The Government of Greece shall act in accordance with the principle of transparency both in the organization and development of these activities abroad and in relation to information on original expenditure". Well, we registered that question three months ago in writing. So far there has been no answer. Mr. Rodríguez Miranda was in Commission 1a 15 days ago and refused to provide information on this matter. In such a way that we demand you to continue to comply with the rule and to prevent those who flagrantly violate the Transparency Act from being removed from Mr Rodríguez Miranda because he is hiding information from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u10	Chisst, silence, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u11	We still don't know today — and you still don't deliver that documentation — first of all, what the costs of the difference were, and secondly, where those bills are. Because something might happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u12	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u13	...and it's just that the expenses were paid to the People's Party after we asked this question in Parliament, which we still don't know today. We want to know if you have complied with the law from the beginning or only complied with the law and returned the money that was from all and from all when they were brought in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u14	Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u15	...for this reason in the Parliament of Galicia. So we want you to clarify us when that abortion was carried out and, secondly, since it has no drawback, that we get the data from those bills and from the place and the moment they were flown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u16	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] The President's reply. I was hoping there was silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u17	Mr. Villares, I've never thanked you for a question with as much discretion as you have just asked. Maybe we started a new cycle of institutional respect. That would be good, Mr. Villares. I don't say it for myself, but for you. It would be good if you had regard to Parliament, that you had asked questions in a respectful manner and that you did not continuously and consistently blame even crimes and, at least, plots or slanders. Mr. Villares, Mr. Rodríguez Miranda appeared on 28 March at Commission 1st and said clearly that cancellation of the trip had no economic impact on the administration. First reference. It's a whole high-ranking statement at parliamentary headquarters, and if you lie at parliamentary headquarters, you'd have corresponding responsibilities. I understand, Your Honor, that you lie to them; we do not; lying at parliamentary headquarters is something very serious, the most serious that a Member may commit. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, ask me about the bill. Less than now computer systems are fast and the party's secretary-general has been fast. I have here the bill, Travels Sant Yago, signed on February 9, 2019. [[The chairman of the board shows a document.]] Mr. Villares, we have fulfilled the ethical code, because this code has been approved by this government and in this parliament there have been eight laws at this government to improve all ethical behaviours of the Government and of all those forming this House. [[Applause]] Now, your question is answered incorrectly. Widen out. Because I traveled with other people. You should ask me if of the rest of the people the bills have also been overturned by the party. The answer is that yes, in every and every one of them, not only mine, but also the person who accompanied me, for ethical reasons, Mr. Villares. That person has no responsibility to the party, but for ethical reasons, since I anticipated my journey, the logic is that the person who accompanied me had also done so. I don't know exactly if when you travel to Venezuela you travel from the House or from the Red Seas of Podemos. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, could you believe me, when you traveled to Venezuela, whether you traveled from the House or paid for the Parliamentary Group on the Tides of Podemos? I know I can't ask you, but the citizens probably ask the same question that I ask myself, and, as I represent most citizens, Mr. Villares, the citizens ask if, when you travel to Venezuela, those charges and those costs are paid by the tides of Podemos or by the House. If you pay the House, Mr. Villares, you will understand that you re-enter a sarcasm: ask for what he doesn't. On the questions, do you know, Your Honor, that the questions raised in the last two laws to this government were forty-nine thousand? More questions have been raised to this government in the last two legislations than since Parliament existed. Does it seem to you that this government is not transparent enough to answer in two legislates forty-nine thousand questions, which exceed the total of the questions of the previous seven legislates? Mr. Villares, if you want an example of ethics, look at this group and this government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the incidence of centralism for the development of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u19	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, what a pity that ethics doesn't reach the people's valet! [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, there are two questions that are bad for Galicia. The first is centralism, that predatory monster that you've fed during these years at Galician Union. And it's done that by chance: centralism is his party's main electoral offer for the upcoming April 28 election, in that run-out race that has the right to see who's more Spanish. The second bad question for Galicia is that we have a political-weighted president who puts the interests of the People's Party above Galicia's interests and who, in addition, doesn't mind doing the ridiculous thing by saying something in the morning and contrary to it at night. And I'll explain why I say this. Look, one day you decide to launch a campaign for self-government. January 24th: "The Galician PP now demands the highest self-government, such as the Basque Country and Catalonia. He did it in addition to BNG's claim. But of course, Pablo Casado arrived and ordered him to stop, and a week later, what do we have? "Free to self-government. """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""".""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" Another day you decide to launch the surplus campaign. March 14th: "He asked for permission from the Fairy to invest the Greek surplus in health care." He sent a letter to the minister, and it seems that the letter worked, because on March 30, the headlines said, "Galice beats the government and you can spend the surplus money." But again we see who's sent to Galicia is Pablo Casado. April 4th: "The PP voted "no" to reinvest the surplus, contrary to Feijóo's criterion." What was your answer that same day?: "Feijóo sees little operational and sterile authorization of the use of the surplus." But we could also go on with another chapter of their campaigns, for example the AP-9. April 5th, not two years ago, April 5th, "He saw discrimination give Euskadi a highway while Galicia waits for AP-9." Lots of blows in the chest these days with this theme. And of course, on April 8 it turns out that Pablo Casado presents his program, that what he proposes to us is more centralism and nothing more and nothing but a single competition, and there is no note in that program that says that AP-9 is saved. The President's reply yesterday. Feijóo says, "The street no longer calls for transfers." I don't know if you start to understand why in Euskadi they get the AP-68 transfer in twenty-four hours and you've been 11 years without getting a single transfer. [[Applause]] Look, that's why I'm asking you a question, which is very simple, and that's to know -- I don't know if you believe it, either, because how you change your mind every day; there are bugs that make a lot less of a turn on the roofs of this country -- of course, which really defend you: if you defend the marriage program, for what you're asking for the vote, which talks to you about Spain about the balconies, or if you're defending Galicia's interests, that we really have more self-government, because we don't even have the current Statute, and that give us the ability not to have to ask Madrid for permission to solve the problems of Alcoa, our pensioners, about the people who are waiting for a chance in this country or for us to have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u22	...more public health resources. Tell us, Mr. Feijóo, and see if I may not change my mind tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u24	I understand, Your Honor, that Batasuna-Bildu, left Republican of Catalonia and BNG do not understand the proposal of the People's Party of Galicia, but I will try to explain it again. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, as long as you're now targeting the Greek Republic, we've been working for the Royal Galicia from the beginning. For us the problems of Galicia I think are quite concrete and numbered for a long time. Look, the last problem we have in Galicia, those traps you're asking me about, and that centralism of what you're doing echoes, look, for us the main trap is the 825 million euros of pitfalls that we have with the central government. To recognize the surplus, which for us is around 125 million euros; not to have updated the deliveries to the account, which is 330 million euros; now we are denied the monthly VAT, which is 200 million euros; and to deny the negative settlement, which is 170 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's 825 million traps. Your Honor, the pitfalls of our families are what concerns us: five thousand jobs of electro-intensive companies and five thousand jobs in the forest sector. There are 10,000 families who are trapped in their jobs. This is what really worries us and takes care of us. As you now tend to read the papers, it's a pity you read not only the headlines, but the contents of them. Look, Your Honor, I said — and I repeat — that the proposal for approval of surpluses in central government does not solve the problems of Galicia, because our money cannot be devoted to our priorities, and I reiterate it. And in the same way as I said — and I reiterate — that at this moment, at a time when the independence of a part of the country is being discussed, a moment when Bildu is making decisions that affect all Spaniards, a moment when Mr. Otegui receives thousands of calls to congratulate him because he finally bends the central government, because at that moment it doesn't seem very appropriate to continue with the transfers. Now, look, the transfer of AP-9 is not a transfer from a competitive point of view, it is a transfer from an infrastructure, and that transfer from that infrastructure is absolutely unquestionable to the Galician People's Party, and the Galician People's Party — at least while I join it — will continue to request the transfer of that motorway, among other things because, as you say, Mr. Pablo Casado signed with a fist and letter this request for transfer weeks ago at the Congress of Deputies. It's a shame, Your Honor, that you don't reflect these kinds of questions. [[Applause]] But look, to explain to you what our proposal in that Maremagnum that you form with Bildu-Batasuna and the Republican Left, to tell you that we defend the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. You don't defend him. We do not agree with the centralism of Vox or the independence and separatism of the BNG, the Republican Left and Bildu. Some, like Vox, see separatism where we see the defense of the Constitution and the Statute. And some, like you, see as something harmful to Galicia the centralism where we defend the need for coordination of a state that exists and a Spanish nation that exists, formed by autonomous communities that exist, to ensure the equality of all citizens we live in Galicia and the rest of Spain. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, both the anachronistic separatism of BNG and Vox's anachronic centralism are a real threat to the Greeks, and that's why we reject the poles, the centralists of Vox and the separatist poles of BNG. I don't know if I've explained myself properly, but, Mrs. Pontón... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u26	...you represent the anachronism, the anachronism of a free nation, of free and equal citizens. Yes, Your Honor, I know you laugh when I recite the Constitution, but that's your problem, Your Honor, that you don't want competence. [[Murmurs.]] You want the Greek Republic, you want Galician independence, and where we want skills to properly manage public services, you want skills to tear the country apart. And with that, Mrs. Pontón, don't count, don't count on Vox or BNG to do Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u28	Mr. Feijóo, you're more nervous than he looked. Yes, yes, I see that to say that they don't believe the CIS survey, you are of course very nervous. [[Laughter]] Yes, I see how you work for Galicia, yes, by crochet, evaluating the pacts with the far right ancient and racist. [[Applause]] And look, you know what the problem is? It's just that Vox's program, Citizens' and PP's are like three drops of water. Yes, yes. They defend recentralization, they defend that Greek is a second language and they say nothing about the transfer of a single new competition. Don't deceive the Greeks and the Greeks. It's just that here's your show, that says it with absolute clarity. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a document.]] And look, very desperate you must be to resort to the covenants of Bildu. But if anyone else talked about Bildu's pacts it was Mr. Maroto! "Maroto defends his pacts with Bildu, he wants me to point out the example." To me, the truth is, Mr. Feijóo, it seems to me that we should take seriously what it means to represent the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] I know you don't take it seriously, because you change your criteria according to the positions that Pablo Casado has. And look, I don't know about chickens. I know that you look like a hair without a head teledirected from the street Genoa by Pablo Casado. [[Laughter]] And Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, deserves something more. [[Applause]] Look, do you know what consideration your electoral program gives us?, which doesn't recognize that the Spanish State, yes, is a multinational state, and it's a shame that, since you're a representative of a nation like Galicia behaves like a real complex and doesn't give you a bit of a fix to read the things that put your electoral program on, you know what it tells us? "Spain, a nation, not a sum of devertebrate minorities or a catalogue of labels." Galicia is not a label or a devertebrate minority. [[Applause]] It's a real disrespect. [[Applause]] And look, if you want to talk about traps, we can talk about traps, Mr. Feijóo, because, above all, you're defending the interests of this country. It's just that the state's debts with Galicia are not 85 million euros, which have now been agreed upon. Rajoy's government has left behind two billion euros only in the last legislation, budgeted and not executed. He didn't claim Rajoy or you can claim them here. The distraction we had for the transfer of AP-9 was whenever you didn't want the transfer and that it was all an absolute paripé. I would actually, if I were you, resign. Mr Urkullu, in twenty-four hours, manages the transfer of AP-68, and Mr Feijóo, with all his worth, has been 11 years who have ruled his own in Madrid and is unable to get the transfer of AP-9 a political weight, Mr Feijóo, really never seen! [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u30	And look, if you want us to talk about pitfalls, out of realism and with respect to the truth of what you're talking about, you'd at least have to admit that the PP was wrong when you reformed Article 135 of the Constitution with the Socialist Party to privilege the bank and passed a law that prevents you from deciding what it does with the surplus. Do you see how a problem is centralism that practices its party for this country, which ends up giving you noses, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u32	And what's wrong is not that it gives you noses, it's that it's preventing you from developing this country. We have 400 jobs at stake and you don't want any skills to solve the problems of Alcoa or anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u34	It's a real disincentive, Mr. Feijóo, a hair without a head teledirected by Mr. Pablo Casado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Peche, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u36	That's weird! Another fuller with the nationalists giving meats of good Greeks, of bad Greeks. Look, to me nationalism or independence will tell me what to do. [[Murmurs.]] That's what you told Pedro Sanchez. Mr. Sánchez already does what he tells him of nationalism and independence. Not here, Your Honor. Here we do what the Greeks say, not what nationalism or independence says. [[Applause]] It's you, Mrs. Pontón, like talking about programs. He's in a coalition with Batasuna-Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia and you're talking about programs. You ask for the vote for Bildu. Yeah, don't worry, they agree. [[Murmurs.]] Pedro Sánchez also wants Bildu's vote. And we don't want Bildu's voice or vote on the issues that affect the Greeks and, consequently, on the issues that affect Spain. Yes, Your Honor, here's your election program, this one of the labels. [[The chairman of the board shows a document.]] Let me read it, let me read page 5: "Rupture with the Spanish regime in force since the approval of the Constitution of 78." But, Your Honor, let me read it, which is a fantastic program!, so that the Greeks really know what the BNG proposal is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u37	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u38	Let me read the program. "Galiza must not only have recognized the right to self-determination, but must also have the possibility to exercise it. That means that Galicia can assume sovereignty, through its own constituent process, from the perspective of the creation of a sovereign Greek State, the Republic of Galicia." You will understand, Your Honor, that this program doesn't represent me, that most Greeks don't represent us, and when you talk about transfers, you don't represent us, Mrs. Pontón, it doesn't represent us! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we don't want this kind of transfer. We want constitutional transfers. We're always going to ask for more transfers in one single country, in one single nation, in an indissoluble nation, called Spain, and that's why you don't understand our proposals, or the Greeks understand their proposals. That in the middle of the 21st century the BNG presents us with this electoral program asking for self-determination, sovereignty, the constitution of an independent State, the constitution of the Republic of Galicia, is simply a political, economic, social and historical anachronism, Mrs. Pontón, a political, social and historical anachronism, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The BNG involves. From the BNG of the Bipartite to this BNG the only thing they retain is the letter. That's right, only a third of the votes. For something it will be, Mrs. Pontón! Look, for you, all that the word Spain means is negative. But don't you understand that unemployment in Spain goes down in Galicia? But don't you understand that if we get more European funds in Spain, we're getting more European funds for Galicia? But don't you understand that if the Spanish economy converges, it's converging the Greek economy? But do you not understand, Your Honor, that if we solve the problem of the pension deficit in Spain, we solve the pension deficit in Galicia? Your Honor, but don't you understand that, if Spain is a safe country, Galicia is a safe country? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, it seems regrettable to see the members of Batasuna-Bildu pretending that the Government of Spain constantly calls them. There's 10,000 jobs here in limbo. They don't make a single call. Who else harms the autonomic state? Nationalism and independence, distorting the autonomous state. Thanks to this nationalism and independence, a process of right-wing populist parties in Spain begins, and that is the answer to nationalism and independence. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, but don't you realize that the extremes touch?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u40	The extremes touch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u42	Some want to end autonomy via centralization and others want to end autonomy through independence. We are with autonomy, with the state of autonomy, with the Constitution and with the Statute. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u43	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the situation in which the commitment of the Government of Greece to the residences of older persons is found
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u44	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u45	Yes, good morning. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the larger policies directly affect 25% of the population, but indirectly affect us all; we go there. In this context I want to ask you one part of that policy, one part I think very specific but very important, which is the possibility of accessing public residences, to an affordable extent, in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which is what we are talking about. We are leaders in aging in Spain and Europe, increasingly, but now that the cycling season has begun in public residency policy we are in the queue platoon. It's not a single policy of attention to the elders. There are others. This shouldn't even be the favorite. But it's a need on many occasions for older people and their families who have to bear the cost of this often. And the commitment to delay the implementation of the promises you make causes prejudice to those who are on the waiting lists, to those who abandon them and are desperate to comply with an economic benefit, but also to all those who end up opting for a private residence, because in these circumstances the prices certainly do only rise. In this sense -- I've told you before — your residency policy is but an undeclared tax to the older people in Galicia. Because when the demand increases a lot, but the offer does not move prices rise, inevitably, and in this supposed way they pay everyone. But this question has another dimension and it has to do with the fulfillment of its promises, it has to do with its credibility. In his 2009 program, he proposed a public residence in each county. In 2012 he was a little bit more modest: he spoke of two thousand five hundred public squares in that legislation and four thousand by 2020. True, in 2016 it came down a little more: it promised only a thousand squares in the following legislation, 25% of those promised; it had not done any; of the first four thousand we went down to a thousand. In 2017 he was talking about nine hundred, and, in a recent answer to a question from our group, they were already down to seventy-eighty. In any case, it's going down so much that the next promise will surely fulfill it because everything will be in nothing. [[Applause]] And in view of this, reality. What happened? So look, the Board of Auditors, in a report he makes about spending on residential care, says that over the 2010-2015 period, the Council did not develop any investment plans in residential centres for adults and dependents. As subsequent facts, the study of a new residence plan is signed in 2017; that is, between 2009 and 2017, nothing. And from 2017 to here the Plan As at home, which contemplated the construction of a residence in each of the urban areas of Galicia, but which today exists only on paper; there is no bidding made, there is no project that we can say has a reasonable completion period in front of us. Therefore, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, ten years later there is no result. Four thousand squares promised in 2012, a county residence in 2009, one thousand squares in 2016, nine hundred in 2017 and, ultimately, no results. How would you qualify this if you were in opposition?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u47	But, in any case, what matters — to me, my group and the elders in Galicia — what do you intend to do to turn this situation around? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u48	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. I think it's good news that we're talking about the bigger ones, I think, as long as we can talk about the bigger ones. I think it's one of the areas where we feel the most proud of our policies. You see how there's a different way of telling what's said from a physical point of view. It's not just a matter of wills. Look, about opinions each has his own, but about the data we should accept them. The fact is that we are currently investing in dependence three times as much as three times as was invested when we arrived at the Government. 383 million euros, Mr. Leicega, is what we invest; one hundred and peak is what we invest when we arrive at the Government; that is, the triple. Today we can say that we have covered and completed 100% of our dependency program, but not today, but at Christmas 2018. We have committed ourselves to the programme — you see it — 60,000 dependents in the year 2020; in December last year there were 60,000, today there are sixty, one thousand. So instead of criticizing, you should see the figures in their dimensions; that is, look, we've accomplished, two years before we finish the legislation, the dependency legislation program. [[Applause]] Let's move on, Mr. Leicega. In the public network of older people today we have 8,000 public residence squares — straight: 8,000 public residence squares — which are exactly 42% more than there was in 2009. 42%, write down, Mr. Leicega. Yeah, yeah, write down, write down, so you can ask me the next question. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Look, more than three thousand three hundred squares in day centers, the triple ten years ago. So, Your Honor, what are we accused of? To increase the triple the squares of day centers, or to double the residence squares, to multiply by three the budget? But, hey, what are we accused of? Do you want the relationship of the sixty-seven day centers that we've opened since we got to the government? It's at your disposal! Just like Mr. Villares' bill, Mr. Leicega. Are you really serious about politics...? Look, in squares, when we arrived at the Government there were eleven thousand squares — exactly 11.126 — in the total number of social services squares, today there are 17,268, six thousand more squares, 55% higher. What are we accused of? To increase by 55% the day centers, the alzeimer centers, the homes of the elderly, the attention to disability? Is that why you accuse us, Mr. Leicega? Welcome to that charge! What I have to say here is that for the past 13 years, the Socialist Party has approved the law of dependency and it is not yet being complied with. The Dependency Act is intended to pay 50 per cent of dependency expenses in autonomous communities. If this had been accomplished, which has been published for the past 13 years, 100% of the dependents would be charging the dependency. And today we are one of the autonomous communities where it is most often covered in dependence. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we're still funding 75% of the dependency expenses in Galicia. And of course we keep working on the residence announcement -- you know that. We don't have all the sounds of all the cities yet. We're currently developing the construction project, I hope that this week we can find out exactly what the adjudicator of the construction projects of all residences is. And I hope, Your Honor, that when we present it we will be licensed. From Ferrol, who doesn't make us any kind of land assignment to make the residence, to Place, that denies our licenses when we ask for them. We're on this contour, Mr. Leicega. I'm sure you might as well find out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u51	But the important thing right now, Mr. Leicega — no doubt — was never more attended, more disabled, never more home-help services, never more social policies in Galicia. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u52	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u53	Yes, about the figures, I'm just going to recommend to you and the whole House, and to those who listen to us, who look at what's on page 43, the painting that puts the evolution of centers by typology. [[Mr. Fernández Leicega shows a document.]] The Board of Auditors, which oversees the action of the Galician Council in financial matters. There's no more to refer to this. A small increase of 200 squares throughout the analyzed period, and basically through concerted centers, which you are adding up everything. [[Applause]] Your promises I have here, because I have a copy of your program. Mr. Feijóo, I like to read the shows... and the newspaper sometimes, too, yes, some of them too. 2009, one more residence in each region; 2012, 4,000 squares on the horizon of 2016; 2016, one thousand squares in the period 2016-2020. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Fernández Leicega shows a document.]] It's been three years already — almost — and we've got nothing at the moment. I already know there are some difficulties in some municipalities, but in others not; you have land available in several cities, in some case over a year ago; and yet they have not moved forward, because there is a commitment to delay the fulfillment of their promises. But the older ones, for many reasons, can't wait anymore, first, because they've spent ten years since the beginning of their promises, and then because of their own condition. And you know perfectly well that in several cities they have the land at their disposal. And in other cases, it's a Join problem, and in other cases it's Unit dependencies that need to be transformed into residences. So that's an excuse for a bad payer. And when you don't make the necessary offer, prices rise up, and prices affect all those who have need, a last need -- because it's preferable for older people to stay at home, keep close to their families -- because they have the need to go to a residence. Today Galicia is in a lamentable situation on that specific land, on that land; we are not talking about the whole dependency, which is a progressive deployment plan, but that specific land. And in June 2017, Mr Feijóo, you -- you are in the Journal of Sessions -- said to me: you have my commitment to starting seven residences in the seven cities of Galicia, where we are going to create nine hundred squares and five hundred jobs. That was two years ago. This engagement, which one did it start? Where did some start building? Because if I see the budgets that you are presenting — the councillor of Fairy will not let me lie — I see that they concentrate most of the resources for the construction of these residences in 2020, 2021 et seq. And so you have to understand that I have some prevention about the pace you're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u55	...honor to your commitment. We started with two thousand five hundred squares in a legislate, four thousand on the 2020 horizon, we went down to nine hundred, then to seventy-eightty, and at the end we don't have one. That's your balance, Mr. Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u56	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u57	Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, how do you mix? Houses with residences? Physical prizes? If they're arranged, aren't they? Only public squares are worth it to you. The rest, if a citizen with a good residence goes to a residence, that's not worth it. [[Murmurs.]] If there are sixty-one thousand Greek citizens who are charging for dependence, that's not worth it. When you ruled, there were fourteen thousand; now there are sixty-one thousand, and that's not worth it. Most of these citizens use the dependency to go to a residence, and that doesn't count. You tell me a report from the Board of Auditors that ends in 2016, and we're in 2019, and that doesn't matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's the last one — I say. The last is the data I have just given you, Mr. Leicega, the last is the data I have just given you: sixty-one thousand dependents — dated today — four times more than in 2009. [[Murmurs.]] Coverage ratio, above the national average: in Galicia, 89.4%; in Spain, 80%. Professional service priority, i.e. residences: in Galicia, 81%; in Spain, 69%. I remember, the objective of the legislation was sixty thousand, now there are sixty thousand. Help the home. When we get to the government, a thousand six hundred; today, 23.450. We are the first autonomous community to help the home, that is to say, prevent people from having to leave the home to go to a comarcal residence several tens of miles from their home. Major's houses. The only autonomous community that is opening houses of the largest in the villages. You didn't even know what they were. Thirty big houses in the small villages of Galicia. I know you don't care now. [[Murmurs.]] Look, he says we didn't increase... Not only have we increased physical residences in more than two thousand and seven hundred squares, but we have increased people's money to choose residence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We just approved an increase for nineteen thousand people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u58	Silence, please, silence. Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u59	We've just approved an increase to nineteen thousand people... but if they don't listen, it's impossible to give the data. [[Murmurs.]] But I don't care. You can go to a 2016 report and ask me in 2019. It doesn't matter, Mr. Leicega. Look, we just increased the good residence by 20% to 75%. Does this sound like a bad residency policy? Increase a residence bonus so that a larger one chooses the residence to which it goes with an increase of 20% to 75% of the counties we put through public services? This sounds like a joke to you. Is it a joke, Your Honor, to have the highest coverage ratio in Spain's professional services? Is it a joke to have the service of aid to Spain's most ambitious home? Is it a help passing from fourteen thousand dependents to sixty-one thousand dependents, fulfilling the entire law enforcement program two years before the law comes? Does that sound like a joke to you, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Of course, Your Honor, we have to keep moving forward in the construction of these seven residences. You're right. But the reason is important. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When someone's right, you have to give it to them, and the same way we're right in public policies, we have to continue to activate senior residences. We have two municipalities that yielded alone; the rest, no. We're tearing down Lugo's hospital to build a health center and a residence; we're asking for a health center license and we don't have it yet; I hope when we ask her for the residence we have. We're in contact with the Ferrol Town Hall so they can give us a sound and they won't give us the sound in Ferrol. But why? Mr. Leicega, look, you know what? Why don't you celebrate... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u61	...that we are fulfilling our commitments in social policy and that we have the most ambitious figures of social care in our history? That's important, Mr. Leicega. Because I can assure you that to fulfill the Socialist Party's commitments in Galicia we no longer count, because if we had to count the Socialist Party's failures with Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u63	...we would need an extraordinary full. But, finally, now, with the coalition with Bildu, the Republican Left of Catalonia and the BNG, we're getting better. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the declaration of environmental impact that the Government of Greece must issue in connection with the project to reopen the Touro mine
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u65	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u66	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Sánchez has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Wait till there's some calm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u67	We have to wait for Mr. President's stamp. [[Murmurs.]] I believe, Mr President, that the advisers who are stubborn could let the plenary session continue and have some respect, because you are telling me Mr President that I can't start, that there is noise and you are going to have it here. This already... please. Or I can start or, please, speak outside, that there's a room where they can talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, does he still have more to say on top?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u68	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u69	Do they still have more to say on top? Please, one respect... Mr. President, it had to be you who told them that, not me. It had to be you. [[Applause]] I don't know what they think. No, don't be proud, please let the whole thing go. Good morning. We've just heard that most of them don't have a municipality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u70	Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, But please! No, no... silence. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Peace... a moment. Quiet, Mr. Paz, please. Quiet. I don't think you can bother anyone who's a counselor there if they're not talking. Please. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, we don't lose the north. Don't lose the north, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They have every right to be here. They're the way they are. No, no, forgive me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know how far you can get and you have all the right... Don't worry about time, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, hey! A little quiet, we'll all go quietly. No, no, Mr. Pazos, you too, quietly. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, everybody, hey! If I don't, I'm starting to call order, something I never like, but, if I have to, I do it. Please, if you can sit there too, because if this doesn't make you feel like we don't have the needed refreshment. [[Murmurs.]] Whenever you want, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u71	...the advisors of tertulia remain there, I say. I go out, come in, but I don't interrupt the full. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Well, we just heard, in addition, that most of the majority don't have a council throughout Galicia that gives him a license to build a third-year-old residence. She's curious about the loneliness of most of them. Well, we oppose, as it is well known, the project of reopening the Touro mine for symbolizing a development model that we do not want for this country, causing many of its evils. It's a model based on selling our natural resources generally to foreign multinationals that exploit these wealth in a few years, with activities that generally generate little value, little employment, and that never engage in the economic activity of the country, which do not generate from the economic activity of the country and which, on the other hand, cause a lot of effects on the environment, on occasions — such as this — also damage to people's health. The model is also responsible for the current situation in rural Galicia, as it complies with activities that are not compatible with the sustainable development of other economic activities which are. Where these activities grow alongside them, nothing grows, and when they go they leave an economic desert with environmental damage that we all have to pay for. That's another one of their characteristics. The balance for the general interest of most is negative and the remaining costs are for many years and we have to assume them all. When they arrive, they talk about jobs, with false figures — the paper bears everything —. They pay very well, in addition. But they don't talk about jobs that destroy. For example, if we take the example of the Touro-O Pino mine, they don't talk about the gainful holdings that would have to close or be affected, the allocation to sustainable tourism or the costs that the public era would have to inherit in the form of sterile reservoir deposits for the next 100 years. Or are there still those who come here telling us that Atalaya Mining is going to be doing surveillance and conservation work for a hundred years necessary for those rafts that are threats to people's lives? Maybe they can come here and say that. But it is only necessary to see the behavior of that company and others of similar content in the past and at present to know that these companies, once the business is over, run away. And the administrations, if they're willing, don't have the ability to make them bear the costs that remain for life, as it happens in Monte Neme, as it happens in San Fins, as it happens in Santa Comba or as it happened in Touro in the former exploitation. Once he left and took all the benefit, that didn't get restored or kept and the costs we've got all of them to pay, the pollution remains for everyone and the company has already done its business. There are no tools to ensure that these installations are maintained and maintained for the coming years. And there is no effective mechanism to prevent it, even if there was any will, which the People's Party has not shown in the last thirty years; on the contrary, it has been a convivent and tolerant accomplice to the contaminant activity of the company, which had the job, had the responsibility of restoring and preserving and has not done so, and here nothing has happened. There's only public money left to restore and to bear the benefits of these companies. Faced with this predatory model, another one stands up, which was seen with special power in June of last year in a mass demonstration that filled the streets of Santiago. Many of the thousands of people who cried out "mine no" were thugs, waitresses, sailors, sailors, mexillan groups, ecological groups, agrarian organizations and the working Galician society, a Greek society in general and a worker who lives from sustainable activities in time, respectful of the surroundings and who want to live here and generations to come, their children and their grandchildren; they don't live and manage business from Cyprus. And that's the difference, they want the country because they live in it and they want to live in it. So the other model that rises is what we defend: the possibility that this country works on the basis of its own wealth, but that these riches live for future generations. And this is incompatible with the polluting megaminery that defends the People's Party as a supposed source of wealth creation. It's incompatible with tolerance, with negligent business practices. Between the project of reopening the Touro mine and a sustainable model of creating wealth and sustainable employment in time there is no cohabitation possible. Two years ago, the company started the procedure for reopening and the Galician Union continues without giving this aberration a definitive folder, despite the fact that all the evidence, including sectoral reports, says that the project is incompatible with the environmental preservation of livestock and forestry and even endangers the lives of people around it. We wonder why the People's Party continues to defend this model. It will surprise the People's Party our insistence or the stubbornness of the Touro people fighting against the mine, they will come here to the gallery and speak calmly trying to make our eccentric attitudes seem out of place. They'll say, we're in a rule of law, it's a matter of technicians, we have to comply with the law and it's legal. Too bad reality, on the other hand, feels so little sympathy for the words that you will come here to say! The people of Touro know well how the People's Party complies with legality, how the People's Party compels companies to comply with legality. The people of Touro know well that it's the opposite, that neither companies comply with the law nor the German Government was able to enforce the legality of these people. On the contrary, it turns people who do the work you should do, neighbors and neighbors who try not to contaminate the streams. Those are the inconveniences for the People's Party. The people of Touro would probably not take two years of constant and exemplary mobilization if the history they lived was another one, if they were to see as the company when it finished its activity fulfilled its restoration and conservation obligations and, therefore, the races were clean and clear. It would be another attitude of these people who have been mobilising for two years if they saw that the PP in the Town Hall and in the Union fulfilled their obligations to ensure compliance with the law. But he saw a councilman and a government of the People's Party in Touro complicitly and saw a Joiner who looked elsewhere and who did not act. Conceptiveness and complicity. The overflows of the bama raft or the Portapego river, constant; the situation of the Pucheras, the Brands, the Lañas, reminds these neighbours every day that they cannot afford a project that would be much larger than the cause of this situation. We have just known relevant information in the technical documentation associated with the application for authorisation of river water vegetables from the Bama ferry. In this technical documentation submitted by Gallegas Exploitations they recognize two fundamental things: for thirty years they have been pouring water contaminated to the waters of the contour; thirty years they have not passed; now they ask permission to pour, because these waters need treatments, because they are acid drains that contain heavy metals; they have been doing this for thirty years without a finger to fix it. And on the other hand, they recognize that the company lies in the project of reopening the mine, because it says there are about 50% of materials that are not potential producers of acid drainage. In this request for authorisation it is recognised that 90% of the materials are likely to generate acid drainages, which completely changes the nature of the reopening project, a contradiction and incoherence more than the company. So we are surprised that the People's Party continues to be committed to defending this project, the mine project, and that the Galician Union, two years later, does not give it a folder. There is enough information to know that the project is unfriendly from the point of view of general interest. Another thing is they defend other interests, but from the point of view of general interest the thing is clear and does not depend on technical flakes. This project is not feasible; we know it, people of the People's Party know it. Two rafts, one 125 acres, three kilometers by 80 meters high; imagine the magnitude of this raft, about 95 acres, which is 2 kilometers by 50, at 74 meters high; a real barbarity, which will be two hundred metres from a population nucleus and which, according to the project's own documentation, has a high risk of failure, which would cost human lives, recognized in the documentation itself. Is there any project worth it if there is a risk of death of people, a high risk of death of people, or that the Arousa stream is contaminated, as it has happened elsewhere in the world, and even without failure? Do you think that in these waterproofed rafts and in which no species that is not herbaceous will grow will make the company a hundred years of maintenance and put the charges to do the maintenance? No, no, no, no. So they'll contaminate the contour. They're not flakes, they don't separate some flakes from this project to be a viable project, no, it's impermissible to all lights, it's not worth makeup to make it viable. There was enough time, two years ago the public information went out and we're still trying to benefit the company by giving it facilities to present documents, over and over again, that are rejected, because it's not possible. This business is not possible, this business is only possible if we allow it to violate legality, if we allow it to pollute, if we allow it to endanger people's lives. If we don't allow that, we have to give a folder already to the Touro mine and the model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u73	...which represents the Touro mine, because this is not the future for this country. The future lies in the sustainable activities that people mobilize so they don't end their way of life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u75	And, therefore, the People's Party has to urge the Government of the Union already and support this non-law proposal so that we can give this aberration a folder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u76	Thank you. Before we move on to the vocalist of the Socialist Group, we greet the students and students of 5th and 6th of the ESO of the Our Lady of Pilar College, of Foz, in Lugo, and their teachers as well. Welcome to Parliament. Also our guests who are in the rostrum today. Thank you for being in Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, the truth is, the usual advantage of Wednesday morning is to talk after the speeches of the questions to the president. I'm going to do an act of contrition: I read the press, because it gave me the feeling that it was a reproach that was made to the BNG spokesman, and then I am united. I read the press, a subversive act we all know, but at last I read the press. It also moved me to recite the Constitution; above all, it is good to recite it when it is well recited. Free and equal citizens is the declaration of the citizen's rights of 1789; in the Spanish Constitution, at least as I know it, it does not appear. What is called the Free and Equal Foundation is the foundation chaired by Mrs. Álvarez de Toledo, Marquis de Casas Torres, who boasts that she does not speak Catalan in Barcelona, because she wants to speak Spanish, which is legitimate, but ultimately because of the free and equal, because we suddenly confuse almost all of us. Indeed, we have here again the theme of the Touro mine, not so much of the project of the new Touro mine, but the history of an exploitation which, indeed, was a social and environmental failure. That is an absolutely contrasting fact, of course, that we have discussed here, that we have graphically illustrated all parliamentary groups and that of course the Socialist Group confirms without any doubt. There is an indisputable environmental problem, and it is true that the existing legislation at that time allowed mining companies to vacillate — as it were in some way — without correcting the environmental impacts that generated their own mining exploitation, and of course in the case of Touro-O Pino because it is undoubtedly so. If we relate this to the current project, I and the socialists are convinced that the greatest enemy of that future project, to some extent, even though we did not share 100 percent of the opposition—the spokesman of En Marea said—or an important enemy of the current project was the lack of political action by those who had to monitor the restoration and environmental rehabilitation processes. Indeed, the company Rio Tinto at a certain point abandons exploitation, abandons it in addition to doing virtually no restoration work, and all subsequent processes, linked — it is true — to concrete business interests, because they did not give a solution to the problem. Anyone who sees the state of the streams flowing from that area through the core of Touro's municipal capital because he has to be fully aware of this situation. But, said this, it is therefore evident that there was a loss of functions on the part of the Galician Union. It is clear that until 2008 Galician mining was in a limbo. It is also clear that from 2008 onwards there is a Law of Mining, which the Socialist Group and this Member supports. And I believe — and I disagree with Mr Sánchez — that the laws are to be fulfilled, and the administrations are to demand compliance to the end. Here sometimes we see paradoxical situations. We see how the People's Group itself votes in many non-law and motions against fulfilling the laws. We're not going to be there in any case. And by the way, they scandalize us to do that. Therefore, the laws must be fulfilled, but they must be fulfilled in their entirety — and that is true —. In the law of 2008 there is a plan to monitor and control the environmental exploitation, which we collect in amendments of the Socialists and which the People's Party voted against. That sector plan of mining activities, which has not developed in any case — and we are talking about a law of eleven years ago — was essential. And, therefore, there are undoubtedly many pending subjects in the field of mining in the Galician Union Administration. We certainly have a technological threshold and financial responsibility. We believe that it is essential to demand the best technical criterion available. We believe that it is essential to require an insurance system and a financial allocation system that enables us to cope with any contingency, because it is obvious that zero risk does not exist, and of course that in mining and any other human activity. But we have tabled an amendment, with twenty-four points, which is the amendment we have come forward with every debate on this issue. We haven't changed position here at any time. In this amendment, a good part of the points have to do with -- let's say -- bleaching, in terms of aquifer filtration, of mine exploitation itself in the future. We believe that it is essential that it be guaranteed, and of course, if the Watchtower Mining project does not guarantee it, we must tell you that it is not. We said so too. But we also say that one can't say that not before knowing and discussing the project itself with the company. Mr. Sánchez, you have advanced in a subtle way what interests we would defend. I assure you I have no shares of Atalaya Mining Corporation, I have no shares. The truth is, I could have them, as long as they travel on the London Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u79	I could buy them, but I don't have them. But of course what I stand for is a law of this Parliament supported by a progressive government and of course there was a general consensus of experts that it was a good mining law. I also want to make it clear, because I'm proud to defend the positions of the party I'm fighting for, and the truth is, I'm proud of it. [[Applause]] There's a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u81	...—ending, Mr President—in which I believe that in terms of your motion for a resolution there is a conceptual leap — as you may say in some ways —. You say the unfavorable environmental impact statement to the Touro mining project puts an end to the polluting activity of the place. Mr. Sánchez, you know you don't. Emitting a negative environmental impact statement to that project and leaving things as they are means to continue to pollute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u83	I mean, one thing is the current project, which can be a tool for improving the environmental situation that exists now, and another is the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u84	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u85	...—end, Mr President—present. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u86	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. From the impact that the Touro mine can cause, if the project goes ahead, we can get an idea by looking at what was left after the 1986 extractive activity, what was left in Touro-O Pino after an unrestaured escape from a company that swept away the natural wealth of the area while the market was favorable to them and that when it wasn't made miles of carousel smoke and left what it left — and it's there to see—. The Spokesman, the Brandelos, the Lañas, are streams and rivers that thirty-three years later continue to withstand an unacceptable contamination from the rubble, covered in technosols, that when it rains — and remember that at the moment it still rains — run a broth without greens or butter but with substances that kill life and the Ulla is picking up the way of the sea. Nor what to say about the footprint in the agricultural sector and its processing industries in the region, I put Bama on a case-by-case basis. It would be suicide for the region, because it would be to change this environmentally friendly and time-sustainable activity by another miner, temporary, with a strong impact on the environment, incompatible with agribusiness and leaving an unacceptable contamination in the present and an unacceptable threat in the future. So it's something a government that prays can't compromise. We know from the project of macro-figures that are handled, macro-figures that produce tides when they talk about rock movement, voodoos, holes, debris, mining rafts, 80 meters high from a wall -- which are two eucalyptus about to cut, one above another -- and this, added to an area of one hundred twenty-two hectares. Blast manancials, quantity of materials with acid contamination, heavy metals in the rivers and rafts, and all this to move millions of metric tons of mineral to powder it, to remove the greatest wealth, to carry it and carry it by ship to the international market for the pox and later transformation into other products that will come back, elaborate and with added value that our Government does not know or know how to defend. Because the difference between a third country, a third world, and a developed world is that the third world must conform to seeing its resources squandered in exchange for wages, while the developed country processes and manufactures its resources. Are we from the third world? Of course, the PP doesn't care, because, in order to overcome this complex of poor relatives and elude their responsibilities with their natural country, Galicia, they move into a higher reality, they cry out "Viva España!", they cancel their own identity and skins to the sea. Because I'm not able to defend the rights of the population and the territory, threatened in their future, even though the update of the project presented by Copper San Rafael does not jeopardise the Natural Heritage, which does not surprise anyone. How will the threat that this general address has read the document and you have seen that there is a very high risk of failure in the mining ferry? This, among other risks. Environment, Rural Environment, Health, Galician Waters also issued very critical reports — sectoral reports — as could not be otherwise, because the threat is serious and there is a lot at stake. It's about the natural balance of the whole of the Ulla basin, with the stream and its richness, with the water resources, with the sustainability of the agribusiness. When the company asked for a four-month stay in processing for the environmental impact declaration, to have time to update the project again, you can believe it! But look, ladies and gentlemen, we already know we're a little suspicious, afraid -- go away from provinces, that is, nationalists, and it doesn't fit us that Language Policy sponsors a mine tale for the school to go makeup and disguise the predatory image: "The mining to open sky, respectful of the environment." Go, go, go, you big lie. But look, I'm thinking more of the project that I'm telling you about. They remember so much that even the different organisms on the board have been discovering the great mistress. The million question is, why don't you unfavorably report the environmental impact statement? What are they waiting for? What more data do they need? Legal illegality already has it, in addition to the evidence and the need to defend a people who are demanding it. They do so and preserve the future of a part of the territory and of a people who have the right to a healthy life and a sustainable economy and with continuity, and do not forget to send the restoration of the current mine and the demand that they put an end to the current contaminants, doing the necessary works to restore environmental and social peace. Not to say that we're going to support Group En Marea's GNP, for being on the line of what we've seen as an old man defending about the mining project in Touro. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u88	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Now we greet students from 1st of the senior cycles of Administration and Finance and Building Projects. They're students at the Rodolfo Ucha Piñeiro Center in Ferrol. Welcome to Parliament. You have the floor now, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. White Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u89	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, you do seem very nervous, and we understand the reasons. If I'd like to tell everyone, with all due respect, that you know that, when we're discussing the Touro-O Pino mine, I use a simile, which is the TV series, because I think it's very close. You make writers, you make characters—sometimes main, other secondary—even changing characters, and even though both the Government and the People's Group answer them again and again with arguments as solid as strict compliance with the law, absolute with the administrative procedures, confidence in the professionalism and impartiality of the public workers of the Union to issue the preceptive reports, full monitoring and environmental control and imposition of sanctions, as it is doing with the Board, because nothing: you give them the same, adapt the script and follow forward by trying to extend this series with new chapters. How? Well, with new stories. In the face of any information or suspicion that an association or group — that we respect all the groups — can publish something that you are interested in and can support your argument to go against Galician mining, adapt it and bring it here; that is, if anyone says that it can affect the Way of Santiago, with all due respect, bring it here; that the mining camera elaborates a teaching unit to explain its work, you bring it here; that he asks the European Union his group, through its MEPs, and admit the question, because they do a press round. But, yes, then, when they answer them, they don't realize that. And I, because here were said responsibilities of the People's Party in demanding restoration, I ask—and I have said it more than once—to avoid being deceived: why didn't the Bipartite do it? Something Mr. Losada said exactly, and I'm going to read an answer from a member of the European Parliament. "Environmental liability Directive 2004/35 in relation to the prevention and repair of environmental damage states that, when an operator has carried out certain activities causing environmental damage, the costs of repairing actions are borne. The Directive cannot be applied if the activity in question took place and ended before 30 April 2007. Why don't you tell the truth? Why don't you take a press round of this answer, and so we could understand why the Bipartite couldn't demand that either? What's wrong with us doesn't seem like you're asking or presenting PNL, but you're not interested in the answers at all. And I think it's very serious, because you're giving validity only to the publications they're interested in, disregarding the work and the ability of public technicians to issue reports. And why do they act like this? Why are they more concerned with environmental protection than with us? No, no, no, no. Why are you concerned about the enforcement of the mining law, which, as Mr. Losada says, has done the two-party government? Not at all. Why are they worried about the 5,000 jobs and the well-being of their families and the dynamisation of the economy in Galicia? No, no, no, no. Very simple: for a clear electoral interest and, above all, ideological, but when they're in opposition. Look: "Kichi defends the production of turtles for Saudi Arabia against the dilemma of making weapons or eating." You're a farce politician, of course. [[Applause]] The truth is that the "No to Mine" series seems to be going down, because today they don't bring the traditional T-shirts, but In Marea for seven months without bringing PNL to full—they asked yes, indeed, in the full past. The BNG, ten months ago; since June, they haven't brought any, they don't ask in the full and they haven't brought PNL since May. And I understand it perfectly, because it was very hard to come to the debates of this Parliament and remind them that the Galician Mining Law was made with the Bipartite, having the BNG Industry Council, and to remind the BNG that, while they ruled, they granted a hundred research permits and forty-three operating licences. It was so hard to submit to it! By the way, the instructions for technosols are also of the year 2008. [[Applause]] On his initiative, Mr. Sánchez, says that the Touro mine only counts on the support of the People's Party, which, as usual, intends to do business by misusing the natural resources of our territory. Mr. Sánchez, don't lie, don't fool the people of Touro and Pino. I say one thing to you: I do not use it, but I demand that you present here a single statement from any Member of this group or Member of this group and any member of the Government defending that project. I demanded him to bring it. It's more, you know that the councillor said, in parliamentary headquarters, that the project, as it was presented, was not viable. So don't lie, don't deceive the citizens. Mr. Sánchez, they're political phrasing. Look, I want to tell you, before I'm done, also to all the neighbourhoods of Touro, which is the commitment of the People's Party. I'll give them readings, so they know. We have brought an initiative to this Parliament saying: to urge the Government of Galicia to: one, to assess the consequences and circumstances of the mining project Minas San Rafael, number 2946, located in the Town Councils of Touro and O Pino, from the total legal guarantee — I repeat: total legal guarantee — and the rigour in the execution of the procedure, so that the total is saved in relation to the outline and strict compliance with the applicable legality, and whether it has all the urban, environmental and technical guarantees in case it was approved. Two, ensuring compliance with the work plan and monitoring and monitoring of any environmental impact that could have occurred as a result of the current results of mine exploitation. And you know they voted? The BNG, against; In Tide, against; and the PSOE abstained. Do you think this is not enough compliance?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u91	So, Mr. Sánchez, don't deceive people. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, don't be deceived. They're big-time politicians.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u93	I'll finish, Mr. President. A very close example of the falsity of the left when ruling. I have here the integrated environmental authorization for the cellulose factory in Ence. Hey, everyone knows their posture. Why did you get this authorization? And that's all, I've been reviewing and I haven't found any Nationalist Block Galego's GNP asking not to be granted or asking questions. So they stop fooling people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u95	And really, I'm done, president, just two seconds. Totally... you're also nervous, ma'am... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u96	It's over, yes, it's over. Your time is up. No, don't waste your time on it. It's over, it's over. Don't answer everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u97	I want to tell you: total tranquility and strict compliance with the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u98	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u99	Well, I'd rather a member of the People's Party call us political psychedes to be proof of being political criminals, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] You confuse the nervousness with which I, when I speak, feel things; when I come here to defend things, I feel things; when I see injustices, I feel things. You, as you don't feel or suffer, come here and do the intervention you did, trying to talk about everything but what we came here to talk about. [[Murmurs.]] You said you were looking for a defense statement from the mine. You just did it, and you're doing it with the action of the Galician Council, you're doing it all the time. You did it for thirty years, because you said here you didn't have the obligation to restore the mine -- say -- the previous company, which didn't have the obligation. Well, but we'll discuss that in another moment when I have more time. But was he entitled to pollution by previous laws? No, right? And who had the obligation to enforce the law? You, both at the Town Hall, where the mayor of this company was constantly complicit, even looking for urban ballasts, as well as at the Galician Junta, who looked to the other side as they went along with the company. That's what you guys did. [[Applause]] So here's to fool no one. History is well known to neighbors and neighbors, they know it well, they know who the psychedes and the political criminals are, and it's not exactly us. Look, I'm telling you, the public information was in August 2017, when the public information came out. I read Article 33: ordinary environmental impact assessment procedures and deadlines. "The public consultation information procedures shall be subject to one year from its completion. After this period without the substantive body transferring the dossier to the environmental body in accordance with Article 39.4 for the assessment of the ordinary environmental impact, the substantive body shall declare the expiry of the said procedures." Why didn't they declare the expiry of the cited proceedings? I tell you more — and pay attention, if you want to be serious about this topic: "The technical analysis of the environmental impact file and the formulation of the environmental impact declaration will be carried out within four months, as from the full reception of the environmental impact file. This period may be extended for two additional months, due to justified reasons, which are duly motivated." Look, Mr. People's Party, four times asked the company to suspend its proceedings. How many times have you been granted the suspension of the procedure so that you could fix the immeasurable, gentlemen of the People's Party? How many times? How many months has the procedure been suspended because you give him all the options? Or how many times will they suspend it? Until you approve, gentlemen of the People's Party. Because you had in your hand to declare expiry by law. We've been giving you one, another, and another opportunity for two years. The last time, on February 21, they asked for four months to suspend the deadline.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u100	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u101	Yes, about the amendment. The question remains in the air. We'll take our measures before that. If this isn't to defend the interests of the company, that God will come and see it, or whatever.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u102	What about the amendment? Do you approve?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u103	In principle, we'll talk, but, Mr. Abel Losada, you said there's no zero risk, and we don't think it's in the unicorns or in the fulfilment of the Atalaya Mining of the law, or that the People's Party would do it. So we can't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u104	Thank you, thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and three other Members, on the management to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the implementation of the budgetary surplus of the autonomous communities and the incentives provided for in additional provision 151 of the General Budget Act of the State, as well as the action to be taken to promote an annual plan to improve primary health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u105	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u106	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor to make the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u107	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative ultimately leads to the intention of the Galician Council to invest the surplus of 2018 in current social expenditure, which is then explained that it wants to be current health expenditure, appealing to the additional 116th of the State budgets of 2018 and also, in addition, — although this is the most important — to the additional provision 151th, which rewards — let us say — through financial incentives those autonomous communities that have a better financial performance. We have to say that we welcome this position of the Galician Union in a double sense. First of all, because we believe that it means a change of position in relation to rigidity and blind automation of the application of the fiscal stability and financial sustainability standards that were shaped in Galicia in 2011, in the law of 2011, and in Spain a little later, in the law of 2012, which also links autonomous communities and municipalities. But we also welcome in a second sense. And it's just that I believe that the Galician Union, through this letter, recognizes something very important. He acknowledges that the Socialist Group, and in general the opposition groups, was right in the debate on budgets for 2019 when we said that the health expenditure on budgets was insufficient health expenditure. Because this is precisely what this request is for: let me spend the surplus on current health expenditure — that is what the Galician Union says — says. But we said that the expenditure on budgets was insufficient in 2018 and not only did they meet our claims but... I will avoid remembering the qualifications they gave us for this position. Is there any hypocrisy in this position of the Galician Union? Certainly. Is there any cynicism? I'll try to prove it after that, too. But in any case, as a first version, let me take good note of this shift in position and that we accept these flexible positions in relation to financial sustainability and a more proactive position in relation to health expenditure. It's good news, good news. The writing of the president of the Galician board, however, is a mere marketing operation for us, so we talk about hypocrisy. And why is it a marketing operation? Because, if you do, this additional provision to which you refer in your letter, which is an additional provision of the 2018 budget — not 2019 but 2018, that is, the presentation by the government of Mariano Rajoy — is to which the President of the Union refers. That additional provision sets out special rules for the use of the surplus. What are the ordinary rules? The ordinary rules are contained in the law of 2012, in the Law Montoro-Mario Rajoy. And what they say is that, when there is surplus, it must be imperatively aimed at reducing net indebtedness — also for the autonomous communities and also for local corporations. For local corporations, Mariano Rajoy's government established successive instruments for the flexibility of this rigid rule until 2018. In the autonomous communities it never happened. The first time this is done is 2018 itself. Well, in that additional provision, Mariano Rajoy's government, what it says is that you can spend the surplus on investments, not on current spending, on investments. Secondly, on financially sustainable investments. And the conditions are set: it has to be linked to the fight against climate change, it has to promote energy efficiency, it has to base continuous savings on future current spending. And only in these cases is the use of the surplus, instead of using it for net indebtedness. And thirdly — which is also important — it is that, first of all, before it is spent on investments, the deficit in the exercise needs to be reduced. That says that additional provision contained in Mariano Rajoy's 2018 budgets, just at the disposal of the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Therefore, if that provision applies, the surplus may be used in that type of expenditure, which is an investment expense; not in social expenditure and not in current social expenditure. So what Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo is asking for by letter is not spending on current social expenditure, it is not spending on health; it is spending on other things that are provided for in additional provision 116a of 2018 budgets. That's why hypocrisy, because the public presentation of that position is going in a different direction from what is contained in the regulations. [[Applause]] It seems to me that it is more important what happened after this initiative was presented. The government of Sánchez adopts a recent decree in which, for autonomous communities — also for local corporations — it is limited to transferring the 2018 forecasts to 2019. It adopts a decree which therefore reproduces the conditions laid down by the Government of Mariano Rajoy; surely with the intention it is — as we have seen later — that the People's Parliamentary Group could assume as its own — say — that decree and support it favourably. It was not — and this is the most shocking — because the People's Group votes against. It is the only group in Congress that in the Permanent Parliament votes against the validation of this decree. All other groups vote in favour. But more importantly, it's to meet the arguments offered by their spokespersons. There in the Permanent Deputy itself was Mr. Floriano, and Mr. Floriano what he tells us is that you can't go back to the times when you spent on what you could spend, that we can't go back to the time when there was injury to the autonomous communities and municipalities and, therefore, return to that path of destruction to which, at last, it seems that the government of Sánchez leads to Spain,—also to Galicia, eh!—. But Mr Lacalle, in a recent interview — which is going to be what the economic concert is going to be for all, which would mean one billion less for Galicia, and which is the economic spokesperson at this time of Pablo Casado's candidacy — is something very similar: that we are not in a position to do this and that, therefore, if we arrive at the Government, we are going to review this whole issue. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course — if you do — the first obstacle for Mr. Feijóo's government to use the surplus is just his own party. It is no wonder that I have spent several days campaigning on absolutely contrary grounds to those of Mr. Marriedo — as it was expressed today in this plenary — it seems normal to me. That's the first obstacle. But the second obstacle is perhaps more appealing but not less important. Mr. Feijóo wanted to be champion of austerity before anyone. In fact, a law was introduced in Galicia to ensure budgetary stability and financial sustainability in 2011, before the Montoro-Rajoy Law, but which basically coincided in its spirit. It was an excessively rigid law but it had some positive values, no doubt. It was excessively rigid, for example, in the management of the surplus. In that law — which is in force today, which has not been annulled — it is set out in its article 18 what must be done with the surplus. And the law says, "In the event that the budgetary liquidation is overwhelmed with respect to the target originally set, the resources generated will be devoted to reducing the deficit in the exercise or indebtedness of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as the case may be." There's nothing else, no other possibility. Therefore, for Mr Feijóo his main obstacle is the very law that Galicia has and which he has supported, not only pushed, in 2011 and which has not been modified. Of course there are giants against whom to fight, Quixote Feijóo faced windmills, which were an alleged negative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u108	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u109	...of the government of Sánchez using the surplus. They were windmills, they weren't real. It was passed in a decree that was validated by Congress. But there were giants to confront: their own party and their own law. Those were the two obstacles to use the surplus. And the breach of the law because it has some problem, of course. I don't know how to qualify for a non-compliance proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u110	Go finish, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u111	... consciously an autonomous law. That has some name, but I hope they can explain to us how to overcome those obstacles. I'm done. More current resources are needed for health, indeed — I am returning to the beginning. We are going to propose through this LNP that additional 60 million be devoted this year to having a horizon of 190 million more than compensate for the reduction of expenditure in primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u112	You have to finish, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u113	And if, as I think, this goes ahead, I hope that they will vote in favour of the law that we will bring to this House just to give legislative support to this claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u114	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. The Galician Nationalist Block has the floor for Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u115	Good morning. Well, to overcome these obstacles, Mr. Leicega, I believe we must trust that next April 28th the People's Party will not be the one to bear the Government of the State and that also the sovereign forces of the State have a decisive role in ensuring that we put an end to the hypocrisy that we are seeing with this issue. Because at the end of the debate on surplus we have seen in the last days or weeks because an example more of the shame that the People's Party of Galicia has on many occasions; a People's Party which is the same People's Party that has introduced the rules of deficit and financial stability and which, suddenly, has been rejected — in electoral mode — as if it had come to discover the powder and scandalized because Galicia had not yet had access and scandalized also by the framework in which this could be developed. Looks like they discovered the gunpowder. Of course, in view of the fact that the president of the Galician Union discovered yesterday that the Galician Nationalist Block is a force that defends the right of self-determination, because, I don't know, I thought we had frankly, since the difference, a slightly more hidden president. [[Applause]] I had it for a little more squat, but, at last, it's what there is. [[Applause]] So if I had believed something that Mr Feijóo sold over the past few weeks, if I had believed something that they said, I would welcome the People's Party to discover — even if it is late, bad and the trail — the bad economic agreement we have with the Spanish State. And I share with Mr Leicega that it is a matter in which, in fact, we believe what they are saying to us, because we would be in the face of an amendment to the whole of what the People's Party has defended. The problem is that not even two months have passed and the little credibility we could give him has already been on the ground with the latest events and also with that debate in the state itself to which Mr. Leicega referred and in which I am no longer going to stop. I did want to insist on a question, in which this subject of the surplus who is at work is precisely the rules that push the People's Party into the Spanish State; its rules of misery and Spanish centralism that make Galicia, first, be overwhelmed by those obligations of fulfilling the deficit, with which the most lost are the Town Councils and are the autonomous communities, and not the State; and secondly, to be fulfilling, to be that advanced student of Montoro during all these years, for very little has served us. And he spoke of the Socialist Party's initiative, in an elegant way, of perplexity about the popular party's arguments when he saw the little letter of the 2018 budgets. Actually, talking about perplexity is being very elegant. The truth is it's a scandal. And it's a scandal that after years and years voting in this House and in other institutions against all those proposals that wanted to overcome the corse of the so-called "laws of stability", they were now suddenly put on the other side. I insist, we'll welcome them if they have some kind of credibility, but, of course, we're seeing that they don't have it. Because with the issue of surplus, it happened like with the sudden demands of self-government, which did not last them too long in time, as we saw today in the morning in the debate between our national spokesperson and the president of the Galician Union. All of a sudden they wanted almost all of the world's competences and, over the past two weeks, no transfers are needed and nothing needs to be changed, because the only thing that matters to the president of the Galician Union is the unit of Spain, not that our health is underfunded, that our funding system comes down to less counts in 2019 than it was ten years ago, in 2009, or that, for example, to finance current health expenditure does not arrive at what is going on in the budgets of the Galician Union. It's not enough because they're asking, as the socialist spokesman once said, to let themselves spend that surplus on it, but we also see year by year in the reports of the Board of Auditors that they denounce as a expenditure that must be done and ordinary is systematically suffraged through the background of continence. And, therefore — I am no longer extending myself — we have tabled an amendment from a symbolic point of view, in the sense that the fundamental issue is precisely that framework, that economic relationship with the Spanish State. And, therefore, another economic relationship, another financing system. These proposed stability laws, laws designed to shape this reform, as set out in Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, are also another issue — since we are talking about health — which is key to what we are discussing. We're not going to have the health that this country deserves if we don't derogate from that rest rate that they impose on us from Madrid. And, therefore, in the face of a framework that denies financial autonomy — and denying financial autonomy is denying political autonomy — because it is the reflection we wanted to put on the table. But in any case, we will vote in favour of the points presented by the Socialist Party and that we do not change. We wouldn't be surprised if the People's Party, in precaution, also voted for them. But, of course, every one of the facts will be put in place and we'll see if the Galician People's Party really is going to anticipate the interests and needs of this country or, once again, will anticipate the Spanish flag, which is the only thing that concerns you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Presas Berganginos. Mr. Lago Peñas has the floor on behalf of the Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u117	Thank you, President. I will indeed welcome the People's Party to critical positions with austerity. Who would say that! Ten years of austeric fundamentalism that dilutes when the central government changes! President Feijóo's proposal to spend the alleged budget surplus of 2018 implies, in practice, a challenge to the architecture of austerity, that institutional and regulatory framework imposed by Troika from 2010. We agree, because that's our position from the beginning. We repeat it here every time we discuss the rules in which this architecture of austerity is realized; for example, in the debate on the ceiling of expenditure. We do it because for us the needs of people have to be above the interests of banks, so we defend here that we have to end the architecture of austerity. For example, by authorizing the municipalities to spend their surplus by improving the living conditions of their neighbours, debate which has always held the opposing position of the People's Party. But let's be clear and consistent: to be able to dedicate the alleged surplus of Junta to health expense, we must repeal the laws that prevent it today. First, law 2/2011 has to be repealed, with budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, more known as "the spending bill"; a law from which every year the councillor of Fairy claims, boasting to be the first government that has established strict limits to the evolution of public spending. I'm going to read what that law says in its explanatory statement: "The fundamental instrument for incorporating budgetary discipline is to prevent extraordinary income from being incorporated into the administrative structure through current expenditure. And also the establishment of a non-financial spending limit that will allow us to use those extraordinary revenues in amortizing debt." Professor Leicega said — and I will repeat — what article 18 of that law says. This is a law of the Autonomous Community. Article 18: "In the event that the budgetary liquidation is overwhelmed with respect to the target originally set, the resources generated will be devoted to reducing the deficit in the exercise or indebtedness of the Autonomous Community". Indeed, the laws of the Galician Union prior to Law 2/2012 of that year, to the Law of budgetary stability and financial sustainability, a People's Party law which in its Article 12.5 says textually: "The income obtained above what is expected will be intended in full to reduce the level of public debt". The same law, in its Article 32, states that: "In the event that the budgetary liquidation is in surplus, it shall, in the case of the State, be directed to autonomous communities and local corporations, to reduce the level of indebtedness". And I can't resist, even though it doesn't have to do with what we're discussing directly, reading a paragraph of this law, which should be reflected in the enthusiasm of indignity. "Payment of interest and the public debt capital of public administrations will be given absolute priority in relation to any other expenditure". What a shame! Now we move on to the second part, which is what it has to do with the origin of this supposed surplus, because the provisional surplus result is not as a result of an increase in income, but a reduction in expenditure. And that's a fundamental difference, because the 125 million euros we're talking about here are not due to an improvement in management that would allow income to increase. On the contrary, the 2018 liquidation reflects a drop in income. The surplus is therefore due to the fact that the Union did not spend the entire 2018 budget. And here it's very relevant to know what games the board no longer spends on its funds. I am going to read four: 322A, of improvement in promotion and employability, of 32 million euros not spent; 322C, of promotion of employment, of 28 million euros not spent; 323A, of vocational training of unemployed, of 59 million euros not spent; of vocational training of unemployed, of 8.6 million euros not spent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u118	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u119	If we add these games that relate to employment policies, it's 129 million euros. This is practically the same figure of that supposed surplus. In order for you to understand correctly, the surplus of what Joina claims is what no longer spend on the training of the unemployed. That's the reality, a surplus achieved by cutting funds to combat unemployment, funds that are, some of them, finalists. It's intolerable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u120	You have to finish, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u121	Yes, I'm done. I'm done with a question. Is the advisor going to have the courage to bring in the spending roof law within three months, so we can stop him from taking forward the proposal that the People's Party is making today? If he had, he would have shown that this is nothing more than an exercise in vulgar electoral demagogy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u122	Thank you, Mr. Lake Peñas. I'd ask them to adjust in time. You have the floor, by the Galician People's Group, Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that, in order to focus the debate, the first thing we need to know is why we are debating the use of a surplus. This is because Galicia in 2018, as in the entire series of recent years, has fulfilled the public deficit, has complied with the debt limit, has complied with the spending rule and, in addition, has been the autonomous community that best performed — with 16.9 days on average — paid to the suppliers. It is a situation that leaves Galicia in a much better position for the future and which, of course, allows us to be talking about the use of a surplus which obviously is not due to the total poor execution of the budget, but is the result of the evolution of income above the forecast as a result of economic growth. [[Applause]] The second question to focus the debate, I think it should be remembered that the letter sent by the President to the Minister of Fairy asking for an exceptional use of surplus is dated February 27th; that is, long before this debate was put forward by the Socialist Party. It was made public at the plenary session on 13 March — in particular on 14 March — and on 15 March the Socialist Party took an initiative in which it asked the President of the Union for weeks: specifically to allocate this surplus to financially sustainable investments and, in particular, to health, education and social services. And why did the president take this initiative — today so much talk about hypocrisy here —? Because, by the way, the Socialist Government, with the support of En Marea and the special contribution of Mr. Lago Peñas, has revealed to us the number one of the United Nations candidacy Podemos by the province of Pontevedra, it turns out that it has taken the decision to remove from its bill of budgets the possibility that autonomous communities and beyond might use it; something that had been introduced by the People's Party and that the previous year had been applicable to an autonomous community, which is the autonomous community of Canarias. So when we're talking about the use of surpluses and saying that if you're talking about hypocrisy here, you should know which side you're on. We voted several times in this House so that the surplus could be used by the municipalities, Mr. Lago — against what you say — and when Mr. Montoro was ruling, he intended not only to use the surplus of local communities, local corporations, but also of autonomous communities. It's the Socialist Party with the Tide, or with United Podemos, who suppressed this from their budget project, which was exactly what he did in relation to the incentive to autonomous communities. It turns out that in the 2018 budgets there are 85 million euros that are the condoning of negative liquidations that are the result of mismanagement of Mr. Zapatero's governments. It's the Junta who picks up those deliveries to the account -- overestimatedly -- and it turns out that that's a condoning that Mr. Montoro does. You also remove it from the 2019 budgets, and they don't liquidate the 2018 budget. This is the situation, and the President asks the Minister, firstly, for a letter to allow her to use the surplus on financially sustainable investments. They said they couldn't be in health care, and at three days the minister himself said they could be perfectly healthy all the time and when they were financially sustainable investments. Here Mr. Leicega, as you know, said he couldn't be in health, he literally said it, and at three days he denied it to the minister. So, if we're talking about financial relations and we're talking about hypocrisy, what would be good to note that the exception of the use of surplus has to do with the fact, first, that there are autonomous communities that are not yet complying with the rules of expenditure — hence, it would be to sanction the autonomous communities that do — but, in addition, in this case, that surplus that Galicia has can serve to compensate for the decrees of unpaid expenditure that it is approving, leaving the traditional channels of Spanish democracy, the socialist Government. So if we talk about hypocrisy, we see all these issues and we see which side each one is on. We are on the following side: firstly, to be able to use the surplus in health, in educational and social expenditure, according to the current legislation; secondly, we are in favour of liquidating the 85 million that owe it to the 2018 budget and that the Socialist Government has not transferred, and more than that introduced the 85 million of the year 2019, to be asked by the letter to the minister and to those who have not been spoken here; we are also in favour of not generating tensions in the treasure of the Autonomous Community, because they are not transferring the 200 million of the monthly IVE and the 330 of the update of the deliveries to the account — which the President said this morning. I mean, we're talking about 125 million euros of investment, but up to 800 million euros that Junta can devote, among other things, to health care. I believe that, after the agreement reached by the councillor, he ratifys his good negotiating work, of covenant, against other attitudes. Yesterday we saw here that the opposition even seemed angry because it had reached an agreement. We're sorry. We have more per capita than the average. One more point of GDP spends Galicia in public health than the average of the autonomous communities. And, indeed, we will have the opportunity to spend on health care. What concerns me is that we are being asked to spend 60 million in primary care in this LNP when the Socialist Group's amendments limited it to EUR 12 million in budgets. I'll read what the representative of the People's Group said at the Congress. He said, "Come and expand" — when voted or decreeed — "an exception to the spending rule allowing the surplus of public administrations to be spent on financially sustainable investments. The question is why they bring it in the form of decree law. See if it's reasonable that it's a copy of what the People's Party did." That's what Mr. Floriano said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u125	So, said this, what's going on? And we're talking about decrees. What we're talking about is that the government's deficit is 1.3. He asked for 1.8 and he was refused. The Banco de España estimates a 2.4, or a 2.5. And what we're doing is, by decree and out of all the tradition of Spanish democracy, increasing the deficit to finance an electoral campaign. And who's paying for it? Among other things, autonomous fulfilling communities, such as Galicia. Obviously, this is extemporaneous. The president has already acted. You come behind the President's request, and we're obviously not going into a game where I saw a lot of electoral hypocrisy in the interventions, both in the socialist spokesman and in the Marea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u126	Thank you, Mr. Puy. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u127	I appreciate the words of the spokesperson for the BNG and the spokesperson for the En Marea Group. We're not going to accept the amendment because I think it would lead us to a much more extensive and far deeper debate about what to do. I have to clarify, in any case, that we are in favour of budgetary stability and financial sustainability, but we are also in favour, from the outset, of more flexibility in the rules governing the behaviour of all administrations, including decentralized administrations, autonomous communities and municipalities, because, for example, depending on their economic and financial situation, their level of debt, depending on the degree of compliance with the objectives, also depending on whether the funds are intended for investment or not. I mean, there are federal countries where investment funds under certain circumstances are exempt from the spending rule. This seems reasonable. And so we believe that we have to have an architecture that guarantees the stability of the whole administrations, of the whole Spanish economy, but at the same time it gives flexibility. Second question. I understand the complicated position of Alberto Núñez Feijóo on this subject. He favors one thing and Paul married and the group -- what was it called? -- the "two living bulls," because it's something completely different. They're something completely different. In that sense, I understand the difficulty of making a campaign in favour of Pablo Casado's theses compatible with the defence of Galician positions. That forces various contortions, and here we are in one of them. They also bother me a little in my personal plan those references to which it seems that he fixed it to Minister Montero or Pedro Sánchez, not even the advisor of Fairy. This depends on the General Intervention of the State Administration, which will be the one that determines at the end of what we are talking about. No, no, but it's just that the president made an allusion this morning — and he brings it over and over again — to this matter! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're in favour of what we thought. Why are we proposing the initiative? Because we created and continue to believe that with the current legislation, with Rajoy's amendment, which was then transferred to the decree of 2019, the investment has to do so in a way that is financially sustainable. It's not that you can't invest in health care or education. We have to do it in health and education, but for certain purposes. So there's too much rigidity. That is why we are thinking that, by meeting the principles of financial stability, we can simplify this a little more. And that's what we thought. And you have to decide whether you're in favour of it or not. Because if they're not in favor of what we're thinking, it's obvious that it's nothing but pure representation and that there's nothing else. That's the key. Do you think that's 60 million? Well, we're in a position, when we betray the law, to discuss whether there's a chance to increase those figures. We made the effort to search the budget where there could be margins, and to get there. But we're ready to do other things. Sixty million for what remains of practice because it is an important injection, in terms of current expenditure, which should basically allow — which is what we want — to fulfil the commitments to which the Council is gradually coming and which will have budgetary consequences. We already know that, at the end of the exercise, all those games that are not running and that are likely to be transferred, or additional revenues, end up going to health care, because the expense goes far above what is initially planned. But we believe that, with the commitments that the Council is taking, this must be strengthened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u128	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u129	...even to allow him to go a little further than he's doing and end up closing the negotiation that the professionals deserve. And finally, you know perfectly well that the main danger to the financial stability of the autonomous communities comes from Mr. Casado's programme. Not only because of what Mr. Lacalle says, but because I heard him yesterday and he says he's going to erase from a pen the tax of succession, the tax of donations, the property tax and the tax of documented legal acts. That, by entry, is about 400 million euros in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 400 million euros without compensation. And in addition, the People's Party has become used to this. What did Mr. Azar do with IAE in relation to local corporations? That's the main threat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u131	...and that's what they should worry about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u132	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u133	We now proceed to debate, in a cumulative way, non-legislative proposals numbers 4.6 and 4.8. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the extension of the grant granted to Cence in the public-terrestrial land of Lourizán, in the Pontevedra River G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and sixteen other Members, on the position and demands to be transferred by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the decision of the State's Advocate to seek the appeals brought against the agreement to extend the granting of Cence on the grounds of Lourizán, in Pontevedra, as well as on the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to its workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u134	The proposal of the Group of the European People's Party is amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and the proposal of the Group of the European People's Party has two amendments, one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u135	To formulate the proposal, Mr Bará first has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u136	Thank you, President. The BNG comes here to talk about the Ence and say the same thing he always said: that the Ence cannot continue in the stream of Pontevedra. This has always been said by the BNG, and others have changed their position and betrayed Pontevedra, as did the People's Party. [[Applause]] Yours is a story of lies, traps and deception. Because first, at the time of Mr. Fraga and Mr. Aznar, they tried to consolidate the factory by linking it first to the port lands and then making a sectoral project, trying to put there a tissue paper factory and, in addition, by attempting to assault the majority will of the Plenty of Pontevedra. As Mr. CEO of Ence said then, it's easier to change public opinion than to change the factory. And they tried to do it through millions of euros to buy wills. They didn't count on the frontal opposition of the majority of Pontevedra society and the Pontevedra Town Hall led by the BNG. Because to us, gentlemen of the People's Party, they won't buy us with raisins or blackmail or coercion. And, of course, after this time Mr. Fraga arrived at Mr. Fexóo's chameleon stage, a stage of lies, of falsehoods, of hypocrisy. I would like to remind you here, once again, of that agreement of May 21, 2009 of the Council of the United Nations, which met in Pontevedra in addition. The president of the board went out there around the press saying, "It's not possible to keep Ence in the creek. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." This is called "armed cement cloth," having an armed cement face. Then, in the 2012 program, in the worst years of the crisis, you went on to say that the PP maintains its position so that Ence abandons its current placement. Even there were, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a unanimous agreement of the Greek Parliament on 8 June 2010 to get Ence out of the river Pontevedra. These were the agreements promoted by the People's Party. And of course, by means of this, the POL, the Coastal Management Plan, which provides for these lands an area of environmental and landscape improvement and the drafting of a management instrument. And, as we know, the POL remains in force; therefore, these POL guidelines are fully legal and have to be complied with. What happened? That the Central Government changed the Law from back in 2013. She put on the pomous name of the Coastal Sustainability Act, nothing more and nothing less. And shortly thereafter, in 2015, treason was consumed, treason to Pontevedra and also a betrayal to the laborers of Ence. Because you've been playing with them all the time and fooling them, telling them lies and lies. That's what you did to them. [[Applause]] Because look, Mr. Moreira — since you're going to talk here — I'm going to remind you of your intervention at a People's Party convention in January 2015. You said to Minister Tejerina: "Madam Minister" -- I have the tape here, I wanted to put it, but I don't want to shame it any more -- "when the time comes to decide about the factory of Ence, it doesn't take into account the company's interest but that of Pontevedra. The decision that is most interested in Pontevedra will have to be made, leaving aside business interests and imposing the interest of the city and its neighbours." That's what you told the Minister of the Environment in January 2015 and two months later, in March 2015 — that there were elections — you publicly announced in Pontevedra your support for the maintenance and continuity of the factory on Lourizán lands. But what's this called? This is fraud, this is deception and this is treason to Pontevedra. That's how it was. [[Applause]] You must have had a marine appearance. You already know they're defending Marian tourism. You must have had a Marian appearance, but it was because Mariano Rajoy called him from Madrid telling him that there was a change of mind, that you had to care for the interests of the IBEX, the interests of the Ence, the interests of the powerful and betray the Pontevedra, the interests of the rotating doors and corruption published in the BOE, which cannot be called otherwise, lords of the People's Party. You do act like this, like telenies, tele-directed from Madrid. Yes, telenies teledirected from Madrid. They are the useful fools of IBEX companies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And of course, after this conversion — I don't know whether by the appearance of the sea or by the call of Mariano Rajoy — after this conversion of the People's Party of Pontevedra and the People's Party of Greece, because in January 2016 a government in functions presided over by Mr. Rajoy — people who don't appreciate it in Pontevedra with all the merits — approves the extension of Ence. Yes, Mr. Tellado, 17 of 25 concelers and PP on the way to political irrelevance in Pontevedra. Go on, go on! A real scandal! because you have made this legal change with a government in function and going against what the law sets about government in function, which does not allow to approve more matters than those of ordinary procedure, and an extension of seventy-five years is not an ordinary procedure. [[Applause]] They're real delinquents! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It can't be called any other way! [[Word withdrawn by Mr Bará Torres at the request of Mr. President.]] Yes, yes, yes, this is crime, yes sir. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u137	Mr. Bará, that word I ask you to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u138	Otegui's friend is Mr. Maroto's friend, who was out drinking with him. That's friend Otegui. [[Applause]] We...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u139	Please. Quiet, please. Silence, Mr. Tellado! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mr. Bará, I'm going to ask you to remove the criminal word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u140	I take the floor, but I repeat everything I said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u141	But the word delinquent is removed. Remove the criminal word. Quiet, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u142	Okay, okay. It seems that you could say a decision that surrounds the delitative, or something like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u143	Quiet, Mr. Tellado. I'll call you in order!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u144	But how can you afford this, Mr. President? Let that gentleman speak of belonging to the armed band... that's indeed delicious! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u145	No, not you. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u146	Or from the possession to the armed band...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u147	Silence! Mr. Tellado, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u148	...they were the ones Mr. Maroto went with them for drinks. I'm telling him I was going with them for drinks and I agreed with them. And Mr. Aznar... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u149	Mr. Tellado, you have a call to order!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u150	...and this you don't want to remember either, Mr. Aznar called them the Basque National Liberation Movement and negotiated with them. But what are they talking about here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u151	Go to the topic of Ence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u152	We are not ashamed to compromise with any democratic party. You're a Pharisee and a hypocrite. In the face of this decision, manifestly irregular and unjust, the Council of Pontevedra presented a remedy for repositioning in the National Audience. The Town Hall of Pontevedra, also APDR and Greenpeace. Moreover — and this goes to the PSOE — the Council of Pontevedra also presented a prior requirement for annulment of the extension which is still unanswered, Mrs Vilán. That's why we're not going to accept your amendments, because the Government could do what it could do, instead of sending the state attorney, is respond to that requirement of the Pontevedra Council and give the reason for the arguments, which are the same as the state attorney, because it's an illegal decision. You can't grant seventy-five years, you can't do things like that, there's no reason for the factory to have to be there, which is what the law says you've changed. In addition, there are land management instruments approved by the German Government that do not allow the continuity of the factory there; the POL clearly says so. They're committing manifest illegality, and if this doesn't bury the Supreme, he's buried in Europe, it's very clear. Besides, you are now coming up with these tricks, these traps and these deceptions to try to convince someone that this will also affect the canneries and beatings. But what are they talking about? Do you want to take the beats to the Mine River? Batteries have to be in the creek, they can't be anywhere else. [[Applause]] And the canteens can also be on public domain lands, unless there's an instrument like the POL that says something else. Because if the POL says there's an area of environmental and landscape improvement, as they say in Lourizán, there's no place for a cannery or anything, or a factory like the one in Ence. And in view of this decision by the state attorney giving the Council of Pontevedra reason, the People's Party and Mr. Fexóo jump as true sources, as spokespersons of the company, defending the interests of the company against the general interest, against the legality defended by the state lawyer. Arman's infamous and ruinous campaign, which recalls the worst campaign in this country's history, the 2009 campaign, a campaign of traps, lies, deception and coercion, and now comes to us with that argument about jobs. But look, I'll do the math. With our proposal, changing the factory site and completing the productive cycle, we have twice as many jobs. Since there are three hundred, six hundred! And we also created jobs in the river, for the enjoyment of the river, for tourism, for the exploitation of the sea: five hundred jobs more. And if above all we do a decent forest policy, as we have to do in this country, promoting quality timber, promoting the completion of cycles, promoting the transformation of wood, we would at best have two hundred thousand families with income from the mountain, not those eighty thousand of what you speak of. But what are they talking about? What are you talking about? They're serious, and above all, they're legal. Of course, the BNG will always be in defense of the common sense, in defense of justice, in defense of the legality approved by this Parliament in the CEOs and also in the POL, in defense of work in the creeks and decent work in the Greek mountains, to end this, which is the greatest environmental aggression in the history of this country, but above all the greatest democratic aggression, because state cloacas and rotational doors were used to make a decision against all legal criteria and against all legality. And as they say in the demonstrations, "If it's so good, they'll take it to the Moncloa."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u153	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr Bará, your arguments disprove them for themselves. Of course, I don't know whether to laugh or cry, but call us delinquents who will dine and share friends and talks with Arnaldo Otegui...! I don't know whether to laugh or cry, but Arnaldo Otegui was imprisoned on five occasions, the last in 2009, for a crime of armed gang membership.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u155	Quiet. That expression has already been removed, Mr. Moreira. The criminal expression was removed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u156	Well, but he's still friends with Arnaldo Otegui.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u157	I want to make it clear that he's been withdrawn. All right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u158	All right, he was withdrawn, but BNG's friends are friends of Arnaldo Otegui, who is a person sentenced by the National Audience to ten years in prison for belonging to the armed band as ETA's director. Those are his friends. Tell me who you're going with and I'll tell you who you are. Mr Bará, you don't understand the POL nor do you want to understand it. The POL regulates a situation for when the company isn't there, which is what to do. He doesn't realize why he doesn't understand POL. I'm glad you follow the People's Party conventions very much and follow my intervention in particular, because at that time I — and I ratify myself — asked the minister to make the best decision for Pontevedra; and the best decision for Pontevedra is not the best decision for the BNG, it is the best decision for the general interest, for thousands of workers who depend on that factory. That's why you've made the best decision, even if you don't like it. [[Applause]] And going to the non-law proposal, we're seeing positive evolution with the drop in unemployment, but it seems there's some party, or the president of the government particularly, that we don't know if he's convinced or likes this drop in unemployment, what we do know is that Pedro Sánchez is doing his best to truncate this evolution, he's doing everything he can from the Government to get Galicia to go wrong. We have just been — myself and two more — at the doors of Parliament, without cameras, without photographs, without television and without warning the media, but with workers who have a job and who are worried, Mr Bará, not because they can lose it by the crisis, but because someone wants to take it out. They're very worried! I know you're not going out to talk to them, because, of course, they're not from Polygal, they're not from Alcoa, they're not interested in Ferroatlantic, they're not interested in us, but they're Greek workers and therefore deserve all our consideration and have all our support. [[Applause]] The problems in the Galician industry have two names: they're called the Socialist Party and Pedro Sánchez, and it's no wonder, therefore, that the president of the Government never stepped Galicia on a journey as president, because, of course, Galicia cares little. We have recently known another new tragic consequences, an earthquake that is causing fear in many industrial facilities. It's a dramatic decision we didn't know, that the Galician Council didn't know because it was a decision by the state lawyer, but there was someone who knew her. Interestingly, the head of the Socialist Party in Pontevedra did know it, and we learned about it, when March 6 announced that there could soon be a resolution in favour of the demand of the Pontevedra Council against the extension granted by the Government of Mariano Rajoy to Ence. That's how things work now with the Socialist Government. Ordinary, the decisions of the state lawyer are known by the spokesman of the Socialist Party. This same thing in Venezuela or in other countries is normal, but of course, in Galicia and Spain it is unheard that decisions of this silence are made through a spokesperson for a political party that occupies the Government. Indeed, on 14 March, the State's Advocate lodged the appeal against the decision to extend the grant of Cence to three litigation-administrative remedies. This means that the State ceases to defend its position, its position, and ceases to defend the administrative act. And in the end, it is regrettable that the defence of an administrative act, an administrative procedure, is left in the hands of a private company that will have to defend the performance of the administration, when the logic believes that these things are being defended by the State. We disagree with that decision in the form and background. So I said, it's unheard of for this to be announced through a spokesman for a political party. And at the bottom, because what has happened synthetically was that in 2015 the state lawyer issued a report favourable to the extension of Ence, but in 2018 Pedro Sánchez arrived at the presidency of the Government, and in the same year, curiously, the State lawyer, who is a centre of management who is presumed to be a certain rigour in his actions, changed his opinion and declared quite the opposite: now he declares that his report is not in favour. Of course, you know this doesn't work for legal security. We know that the representatives of the workers in the ministry told them -- and it was neither the minister nor the secretary of state, but it was a chief of staff -- that when it was Rajoy's government it was not informed by the state's counsel. It was soon clarified that this was a lie, because if there was a state lawyer's report of 2015. And what does the state lawyer say now? If the concessions are no longer extended, in total terms, they cannot exceed seventy-five years. We don't share the state saying one thing and then saying the opposite. The Council of State does not share it either, because the Council of State says that in the concessions prior to Law 2/2013 — not the news, because the state lawyer's report only speaks of the news after 2013 — they can exceed seventy-five years. And it must be borne in mind that this extension that Ence received is subject to an exceptional regime, not an ordinary and indiscriminate extension. The law says it's an extraordinary and selective extension, and what it was trying to ensure is that the occupation of the land was allowed to be compatible with legal security, also conjugating it to the protection of the coast. So from our point of view it's an arbitrary decision, it's a case of more instrumentalization of State Counsel — and it's no longer the first, uh! — in favour of political interests. And if the state goes down its arms in a judicial dispute instead of defending an administrative procedure that has dealt with the State itself, it leads the city of Pontevedra to see five thousand jobs threatened and eighty thousand families who will no longer be able to sell wood to this company. This decision also causes a profound socio-economic impact, and to this Sánchez says: make it happen. Well, it's over, it's got consequences in practice. The company immediately frozen the investments it had planned for this factory and is diverting five hundred million to another factory outside Galicia. That's how you fight for industry in Galicia, causing companies to divert investments out of Galicia. Suppose, moreover, a breakdown of principles, such as fundamental legal security, and this also triggers a reputational crisis in our country, because investors don't invest money in places where there's no legal security, they don't invest in an administration that today gives a favorable report to an installation and years later it'll be revoked. Not to mention the heritage responsibility that this can generate for the state, that we are going to pay all Spaniards for this decision, and that is undoubtedly a good decision for the shareholders of the company because they can get compensation, but of course, it's a fatal scenario, a bottleneck, for the workers, who will be without work. Galicia attaches great importance to this decision, which does not matter very much to the Government of the State, we were able to check on a press conference of these crazy Fridays that they do, in which a journalist asked the Government spokesperson about the extension of Ence, and the Government spokesperson did not know what they were talking about and could not answer. That's how important the Government of Pedro Sánchez to Galicia, the Ence and industry in Galicia! But this money order has more damage, eh, many of which are not yet aware that they are affected by this decision. The PSOE wanted to harm the Ence, but this goes further, this decision will affect the canteens. They've already blown up the alarms in the conservatory sector; a sector that invoices EUR 10 billion and employs EUR 26,000. Because the Law has already stated that concessions which were extended and which exceed the total amount of seventy-five years will be subject to an office review and will cancel the Government itself. It also leaves many more companies insecure. For example, equipment, shellfish cookers, debuggers, and also public equipment such as schools, sports facilities, etc. After this decision by the State Counsel, as in an escape maneuver to justify the decision of the Cence landing, days later it is announced that the Back Regulation will be amended. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask for support for the workers, we ask the Government to move back in this bottle decision for the interests of Galicia, because unfortunately, today there are two enemies for employment in Galicia: one is the crisis, and the other is Pedro Sánchez, worth redundancy. I hope that the solution of this problem, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, does not depend on a call to Arnaldo Otegui, would be the greatest humiliation to Galicia! In short, we see that the state has its own lawyer, the company has its own lawyer, and we're going to continue to defend the workers, whether they're from the company, because they're German workers. We therefore call for support for this proposal which ultimately seeks to remedy and rectify a catastrophic decision for Galicia. We are calling for rejection in the change of state counsel's approach. We ask the Central Government for an express commitment to over 5,000 jobs, directly and indirectly, threatened and also to the eighty thousand families selling their wood to this company and entering 300 million euros. And also to safeguard — very important — the principles of institutional loyalty — which seem not to go with the Socialist Party, the principle of cooperation and the principle of coordination between administrations, because the Council of Galicia had no prior notice of this decision. We also ask that the costs of this declaration of nullity of the extension be assessed for the public era. And we are also interested that there is an express support agreement for the employees of the company Ence that they develop their work at this factory and also for all those who, directly or indirectly, depend on their work of living in the company because of this decision taken by the Government of the State, which compromises the future of these jobs. An installation that, we remember -- it was actually made public yesterday -- it counts on the support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u160	...of the fishermen's confreres of the Pontevedra River, given that you should analyze. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u161	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u162	Thank you, President. Good morning to all Members. Since inconsistencies and hypocrisy have been discussed here today, and the memory of some of the Members and of the Members, of whom we are here, is minimal, is kind of fish — even the memory of the President of the Union — because I am going to make a report of dates and a narrative of the things that have been told, said, that have been committed since 1959. In 1959 he ruled the dictator Francisco Franco and, at that time, granted the first concession to Ence that allowed him to be in Lourizan until July 2018, which was the date when the concession was completed. Everyone agrees today too, most of them, although they were silenced—we knew the forms of silence of the dictator—in which the location of Ence in Lourizan was nefarious to Pontevedra and to the stream of Pontevedra. In 2002 — President José María Aznar in the State and in Galicia he was President Manuel Fraga Iribarne — Ence was sentenced by the Provincial Audience of Pontevedra for continuing economic crime. The prosecution's request and the prosecution at that time for a continuing serious economic crime were met. They were criminals, therefore, at that moment, because they were convicted. But neither Manuel Fraga nor José María Aznar, who had the opportunity in their hands to do so at that time because they were presidents and also because they were asked to do so from the ministry themselves, activated at that time the declaration of expiry of the concession for flagrant non-compliance of the conditions granted by Franco in 1959. Neither did. So there was a first-order environmental problem, so much so that in 2002 there was a conviction, but the governments of Mr. Fraga Iribarne and Mr. José María Aznar decided to look elsewhere. In 2009, a political party said: "Trasado de Ence. In these four years, we've heard a lot of announcements about the transfer of Ence and there's been a lot of expectations. In these four years, the Bipartite had many opportunities to fulfill his promises, but the truth is that everything is still the same, nothing has been advanced. As in many other issues, it became clear that the Bipartite does not fulfill what it promises." This is the electoral program Feijóo 2009, Reloading Galicia.com. It was repeated — because it was expressly said — to ensure that the transfer of Ence is done within the district of Pontevedra. Feijóo's election programme in 2009 which I will leave to the President. Feijóo's election programme in 2012 — he was a candidate, in 2012 he was already President of the Galician Union — "the PPdG maintains its stake so that Ence abandons its current placement". It can be seen that neither in 2009 nor in 2012 there were employees of Cence nor thousands of families like right now, by the way, if there are. There were no them at that time. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In 2010, President of the Government of Galicia Mr. Núñez Feijóo. In this same Chamber — as the spokesman for the BNG said — it was unanimously approved to resume conversations with the company to find a new situation outside the Pontevedra River. President Feijóo has pressed the green button, just like all Members. And in the sitting paper of 8 June 2010, Mr Daniel Varela — who unfortunately is not now in the Chamber — defended the popular Parliamentary Group's favourable vote in favour of the transfer of Ence outside the Pontevedra River. And he said the following — and I will also leave it to the President —: "We are convinced that this situation has an announced end, which is the year 2018, in which the extension of this concession must not be made." That's what I was saying, and that we had to reach an agreement to move it out of the river. He finally said, "Does this mean that Ence can stay in the current location beyond 2018 if the extension of its concession is not made? No." That is what Mr Varela, who is still a member of his group, said, even though he is not sitting today. Year 2012, Feijóo president of the Union, Mariano Rajoy president of the State Government. The Attorney General of the State, in a speech of 23 July 2012 that you should read, Mr. Jacobo Moreira, said: "It must prevail the term that marks the 2003 Law of Public Administration Heritage," that is, the maximum duration of the concession, of seventy-five years, extended included. In 2013, Mariano Rajoy — who was president of the Government — changed the Law from back to back, allowed companies, including Ence, to request extensions, and allowed a favourable report determining the environmental bodies of the autonomous communities. Do you know that you said that report—favorable, of course, it was—by the Government of Mr Feijóo? Nothing. About Ence he said absolutely nothing and about the extension absolutely nothing. Nothing; zero kicker, as President Aznar said. And now Mr. Feijó comes here to tell us that no one will shut him up. In fact, you've been so quiet about that report that you must now be untied to have to talk about Ence. Sixty more years of extension, sixty more years, until the year 2073. [[Applause]] Even the company itself was afraid it would save her the sixty years they asked for! [[Applause]] It would also be good if one of you not only sent the delegates from Ence to talk to the company, but perhaps one of you would also like to talk to them from time to time. In 2014, President Mariano Rajoy, President of Galicia, Mr Feijóo. The Council of State issues a dictatorship, 705/2014 — which should also read — of 17 September, in which it says: "The period of seventy-five years must be total. That is, it is the maximum time that the concession and its extension can reach." Who was the president of the State Council at that time? Look at the facts!, Mr. Romay Beccaría, who I think is militant of the People's Party. In 2018, State Lawyer issues a report based on his first report and also on the Ditame of the State Council of Mr. Romay Beccaria, president, and says the same. The report is this, it has forty pages — which, of course, must be read — it is not this thing that has been brought out in the press, which is not a state lawyer's report or much less, it is this report. And in this report it says the same thing: "Let's keep the criterion, the seventy-five years are for concession and extension." Exactly as Romay Beccaría said in 2014. And that interpretation is the one that leads the state's counsel to lean on the litigation-administrative resource...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u164	...of the Town Hall of Pontevedra. I'm gonna finish it, president. We have to wait for the National Audience to be resolved. We know that you're more than controlling the second rooms behind or from behind and trying to put certain people in the magistratery as appropriate when it suits them. Even disrespect... as your spokesman at the Senate said. [[Applause]] I'm not saying it, he said it. They're not even able to respect firm sentences, like the one that condemns the people's Valedora...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u166	...by diversion of power and arbitraryness in the designation of a post of free designation of the sister of the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Vilan, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u168	I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u169	No, no, look at the time, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u170	We asked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u171	No, it's been a minute and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u172	...that if he comes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u173	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u174	...to a dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u176	...and we have the requests in our amendment. Thank you very much, President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u177	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u178	...for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u179	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u180	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The position of our group with regard to the Ence is well known and has always been the same, the difference of the People's Party. We advocate that we need to fully recover Pontevedra's river to conserve it environmentally, to protect people's health, to dynamize the sectors resulting from the sustainable extraction of river resources — be it seafood, fishing and even tourism — and also to ensure the jobs of the employees of Ence. Because there's a wealth in Pontevedra's creek that is being kidnapped after the irregular extension of Mariano Rajoy over 60 years. The potential of Pontevedra's stream is stolen and kidnapped by this extension and by the situation of the river. And for this, we need to move the factory to the river Pontevedra. We are going to support the BNG initiative that proposes the transfer, the commitment that the People's Party also had to comply with the POL and the DOT, but we have introduced a replacement amendment so that the People's Party has no excuse not to defend the jobs of the workers of Ence. We have tabled an amendment which says that, in the event that the transfer cannot be made, as the company is saying, that in the event that it is not allowed to continue, it would go from Spanish territory, showing no interest for its workers, in the event that this cannot be done, that a reindustrialization employment plan should be made in the area that absorbs these jobs, which we believe should be in the clean energy industry. So today, the People's Party has two options to defend the jobs: either the transfer or removal of the factory and the impulse of a job plan to recover those jobs. Mr. Moisés Blanco said this morning that the People's Party would stick to strict compliance with the law, and they called them political pharysants. What we don't understand then is why for Ence you don't want to strictly comply with the law, because the extension situation of Ence is failing four regulatory frameworks: it's failing to comply with the POL, it's failing to comply with the DOT, it violates the Heritage Law and it violates the Back Law. It violates the Law of Heritage by extending the concession, as the previous spokespersons have already commented, which exceeds seventy-five years. With the Law of Heritage, it could only be until 2033, and not the 60 years the People's Party gave it. But it also violates the Law of Back in Article 32.1, which clearly states that concessions may only be made in the public domain of the earth when the nature of the company's activity justifies the need for it to be in that placement; and Ence does not justify the need for it to be in that placement. The proposal which the People's Party brings today, which they want to propose to us, is therefore that we vote in favour, that Parliament be positioned favourably, in non-compliance with the law. So who are the political phrasers, who are you, who want us to violate the law to defend the sole and exclusive interests of the board of directors of Ence. You, the People's Party, today bring the voice of the board of directors of Ence, and so they've been doing it all this time. They bring false data, they make up your data. You can talk about five thousand jobs like you could say fifty thousand or what you could say 100,000. You take the jobs under your sleeve. Even President Feijóo came to speak of seven hundred direct jobs when the company's own memory speaks of three hundred nine, of which 100 are in the central offices of Madrid. So we're talking about 200 nine jobs, not seven hundred or four hundred, which are the direct jobs. And I also want to say that it is really obscene for the People's Party to bring initiatives to the Galician Parliament of Ence, which is all these days talking about Ence, when you had to be hidden and quiet and trying not to talk much about this matter, because we're talking about the most serious case of corruption by turning doors of the People's Party in Galicia, of the most serious case of corruption by rotating doors. And you, far from being ashamed, still have the nerve to be taking the subject out again and again. Because we all know that Isabel Tocino and Carlos del Alamo, two decisive people in the process of privatization of Ence, are part of the board of directors of Ence and are bringing succulent benefits. It's a real indecency that you still have the courage to be talking about this. And how can you talk about legal insecurity? You, who are the ones who change the Law from the ground to an average of once a year, come here about legal insecurity. Of course there is a situation of legal insecurity, but caused by the People's Party, caused by an irregular extension, which violates the law and is now being reversed, which is now possibly the return of Justice. Let Justice determine whether it's legal or illegal. You, who always stick to strict compliance with the law, don't know why in the case of Ence not. Well, I know, we all know; obviously, two positions on the board of directors are probably not the only one that Ence gives to the People's Party; otherwise, we don't see so much effort from the People's Party to keep this company in that situation. Because the rest of the companies pay the land where they have to do their business, I don't know why the Ence has to give him a land to do his business. You will know what you give them in return, in addition to the two positions at the Board of Directors, with Isabel Tocino and Carlos del Alamo. But if you come here to defend the jobs here, it's like the one who makes the fox look after the chickens. During the ten years you've been ruling in Galicia, 40,000 jobs have been lost. Forty thousand industrial jobs lost in Galicia in the ten years that the People's Party has been ruling with Mr. Feijóo. And now they come here and they make many fears to defend 200 jobs. You don't have any credibility defending the job because they didn't say anything while those 40,000 jobs were lost. They didn't bring any initiatives to keep these jobs; they don't bring initiatives to this whole to defend Polygal, to defend Alcoa; they don't bring initiatives to this whole to defend the more than 2,000 jobs that are currently at risk by the ERE wave that is now, they don't even bring one single initiative. They're just bringing her from Cence, because you have a corrupt political conviction with Cence and everybody knows it. So — and I'm finished with time already — there are two options for the Pontevedra River: the option of the People's Party, which is to keep Ence there for sixty more years, polluting, attacking the environment, public health and preventing the development of a sustainable productive sector in the Pontevedra River, which could generate hundreds and even thousands of jobs. Fifty shellfish licenses have been lost in the last 20 years since we have data. Those jobs to the People's Party obviously don't worry about them, because they don't carry anything in return. We will continue to defend the exit of the river factory, with the transfer, with a job plan to recover jobs, and we have great confidence that we will achieve it and we have great confidence that people will throw out the People's Party of Administrations so that they will stop destroying and preventing their future. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u181	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u182	Well, we talked a lot about delinquents here, and the only person in this hemicycle who had a relationship with criminals was what went with him on vacations, vacations, yes. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] These were the delinquents, the delinquents. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, Mr. Fexóo, who also wishes good luck to a gentleman nothing but accused of directing a network of progeny. [[Applause]] That's what you guys do. A gentleman who walks through Sanxenxo surrounded by Mariano Rajoy, surrounded by Ana Pastor, who is a candidate in these elections, and the whole cabin. [[Murmurs.]] Those are your friends, those are your friends. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Moreira, you've been thrown here to lions like in the Roman circus, because you'll tell me! Look, you even want to take us here for fools. I'll put the tape on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u183	No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's not allowed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u184	You're not allowed?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u185	No, no, no, no. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u186	Well, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u187	Of course, but it can't be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u188	...because the recording doesn't lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u189	But it's not allowed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u190	But the recording literally says, because I've been reviewing it: The decision will have to be made... — you told the minister literally. Minister... well, so with a more begging tone. Madam Minister, we must make the decision that is most interested in Pontevedra, leaving aside business interests and imposing the interest of the city and its neighbours, leaving aside business interests. And they did everything the opposite. There's no way to get it, Mr. Moreira. You spoke here about the POL. The POL is absolutely clear and powerful, the POL speaks of an area of environmental improvement and landscape for these lands and says the factory has to get out of there. And the POL had to be the main argument for you to make a report against the extension and they did it in favor, because it's clear what interests it serves. And besides, you came here with arguments that fall with the whole baggage, because you said, it's an exceptional, extraordinary and selective extension. And it turns out that you approve a government in function, which can only approve ordinary affairs. But what are you talking about? It's a manifest illegality. A government in office cannot approve an exceptional, extraordinary, selective extension, one hundred and fifteen years, violating, as the state lawyer said, all the legislation there has been and because there is. You've been cheating and lying to Pontevedra for years, but mostly cheating and lying to the workers. As they did with Elnosa, who promised to transfer them, who would leave them there, and eventually left them on their way. That's how you act, Mr. Moreira. And you tell me about the support of the confrereries. That reminds me of what the director of Ence said: it's easier to change public opinion than to change the site factory, actually. Also the plums and the Berberectos of the Praceres are having a party, they're going out in demonstration also in support of Ence. That's how we got there. Look, the BNG makes it clear: the BNG wants it to be the laugh as it was, this lost paradise, the cry free of Cence, but, above all, we want a society and a democracy free of corruption, of the turning doors, which were the ones you used to try... [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u192	...perpetuar Ence in the stream of Pontevedra, but we will not consent to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u193	Thank you, Mr Bará. Don't you accept the PSOE amendment? [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bará, starting with you, the workers of Ence want to work, they don't want to live as deputies, and less in the Galician Nationalist Block, because there are no squares there for everyone, because, as you know, they all take a scene. [[Applause]] And you take me out of a tape that I perfectly, and ratify; and I thank you for advertising an intervention at a People's Party convention. Because I said you had taken, as you yourself reproduced, the best for the neighbor's interests. And you understand that the best thing for the neighbor's interests is that the neighbors are out of work. That's his interpretation. We interpret that the best thing for Pontevedra, for the socioeconomic fabric of Pontevedra and for the interests of the neighbors, is that they have work, and that's why that decision was made. You have a truly abject mind. [[Applause]] And by the way, he talks about the decision being taken with a government in function. The State Counsel's report says nothing about this issue, it only questions the deadline. At no time does she question whether she had been adopted by a government in office, because it was a technical-administrative decision that the Government now refuses to defend. Let me remind you of Elnosa's theme the truth is it's bloody, eh! A company you shut down, with the Socialist Party, that everyone was out of work except a few who had to emigrate five hundred miles, and you had a party to celebrate that these people were out of work. I ask you, Mr Bará, are you going to have a party when the 5,000 people are out of work? Of course, BNG is regrettable. Go on with those companies, go on with Arnaldo Otegui and don't talk about these things. [[Applause]] The question is that any citizen will wonder how it is possible that the State Counsel now questions a decision which the State Counsel itself adopted two years ago. This is what people don't understand and we don't understand ourselves. See, in 2008 the integrated environmental authorisation was granted. Could anyone understand that when President Feijóo arrived at the Galician Council a year later he ordered to reform that decision and leave it without integrated environmental authorization to Ence and Elnosa? No one would understand. Because we don't do those things. That's what the Socialist Party did, in addition, by twisting a report from the Council of State, because you did what the Council of State talks about the regime of new concessions after 2013, but the state's lawyer does not transcribe the part in which the Council of State talks about the precedents and says that it is different, that they can exceed seventy-five years. There is a serious error that is triggering a whole set of wrong measures. I think it's a tremendous mistake to try to remedy this wrong decision by changing a regulation, because now they're shaking the canteens, the shellfish cookers, the debuggers, also leaving in limbo many public facilities and equipment. It's a terrible mistake. I think a monkey with two guns has less danger than Pedro Sánchez in the Government, frankly. [[Applause]] As for the amendments, it is already a very tasteful sarcasm, Mrs Vilán, that the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u195	Quiet, please. It's a metaphoric expression. On the amendments, on the amendments... silence, silence, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Peace, be quiet, please. Amendments. About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u196	On the amendments, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u197	Chisst, Chisst! Mr. Losada, quiet. There's little time left here, let's go quietly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u198	We don't accept them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u199	No, but the press has already said it and in your mouth. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Oh, if the press is wrong, I'm sorry. They made a statement of yours and so I take it, there's nothing wrong with it, eh! Besides, I wish you the best. You know I wish you the best, please. I'll take it all off, eh! [[Murmurs.]] Amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u200	The Socialist Party is not going to accept it. It seems to us a very tasteful sarcasm after the Socialist Party causes the State Counsel to disallow itself and to issue a report it has made. You need to have a stomach to show support for workers in an amendment, Mrs. Vilán; you need to have a stomach.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u201	About Marea's?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u202	And if they keep a little common sense and coherence, the logic is not that they show support for the workers, that they're sorry, that they're sorry, for their decision, for the state lawyer, that we already know what some state lawyers think. Even a gentleman who is now a candidate, who was the criminal officer in the trial, said: They stopped me because they wanted me to lie and he wasn't going to do it; a state lawyer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u203	About the amendment, about the amendment of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u204	We're not going to accept this amendment either, because we don't have to put anyone back. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u205	Thank you. Mr. Moreira, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u206	These workers have work, they won't lose it because of any crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u207	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u208	He loses it for a decision by the Socialist Party and Mr. Pedro Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u209	Time's up, time's up. Thank you, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u210	...who doesn't know Pontevedra and I doubt much that he knows where Galicia is. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u211	Thank you. Quiet, the campaign is still starting tomorrow. Don't get nervous. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in conjunction with the three universities of Galicia to review the current system of academic fees
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u212	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u213	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Burgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. For socialists, as you all know, education is a public service, a fundamental right, because it guarantees social equity and guarantees equal opportunities. And as such individual rights that we consider education, we also consider that it has to be a right at all levels, also at the university level. And that's why we believe that public administrations have the obligation to guarantee access to universities without discrimination of any kind to anyone who has the merits and academic requirements necessary for that, without having any economic problems or family income problems difficult or free access to university studies. That's why we present this non-law proposal, which insists on the need to change the system, to review the system of academic fees, to ensure the freeness of the first registration, only of the first registration, of all degrees in the Greek university system. And so we do so, we propose this change in academic rates, by ideological conviction, by equity and social cohesion, because we cannot — of course, socialists cannot afford — that no one stay outside the university for economic reasons, we cannot accept that in an advanced society they give up talent on the part of their members for a matter of family income. [[Applause]] And this proposal that we socialists make this morning is not a new proposal or a proposal that is absolutely original in the middle of our surroundings, mainly in Europe, because, as I imagine your lords know, the free tuition in university studies is a majority in all of Europe. Please listen to the countries that have free registration, because they will find in them the highest quality or fame of university quality. They have free registration Norway, Sweden, Finland, Austria, Scotland, Denmark. They have a symbolic plate of EUR 50 and a hundred, Germany and France, in addition to other countries such as Malta, Greece, Turkey, Poland, the Czech Republic, which have symbolic plates. Besides, all these countries have a very advanced system of scholarships, very powerful also of family help. Conscious of this reality, aware of the need to guarantee university studies as well, for a number of reasons I hope to have time to comment on later, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, proposes in its electoral programme—but they have already begun in the Government chaired by Mr. Pedro Sánchez to work on this—that free registration at all levels of the Spanish university system. In addition, President Sánchez guarantees and commits himself to putting him into effect in the next legislation. And I insist: there have already been meetings with college councils to arbitrate a way to do it. But, besides, of course, since the Government of the nation, the government presided over by Pedro Sánchez also converts the system of scholarships, because this is also a measure that has brought together an increase of scholarships too, because, as you all know, university studies fall to a large extent in the family economy also of the lower incomes; a conversion of the system of scholarships to return to a system that guarantees the right to receive a scholarship, not an aid without rights, as the People's Party has done by changing the whole system. On the other hand, as we propose here, it is already in some way proven that it can easily be put in place. As you know, since the 2017/2018 course in Andalusia, there has been a very similar measure; 99% of university fees are free; there have been more than eighty thousand students and university students who have benefited from this rate reduction, almost free. On the other hand, even in a closer example to us, of much smaller size, of course, on the Lugo campus, the Lugo Deputies launched a program of grading 50% of the enrolments of some of the campus's university degrees, with remarkable success, because with those bonus enrolments the enrolments grew in those studies. Aragon and Extremadura are also launching something similar, and Valencia is studying it. I mean, it's a debate that needs to open and that sooner or later will have development in our country, and not only in our country, but in all autonomous communities and in Spain. I also want to tell you that the universities represented by the CRUE expressed themselves fully in accordance with the Socialist Party's proposal for free registration in Spain and the German rectors also stated that this measure seemed appropriate to them, because they also consider that university, university studies are a right and they are perfectly aware also of how many students and students have had to give up their studies in recent years or have not been able to reach them. On the other hand, the enrolment rate of university studies in Galicia is below the average Spanish rate. The school enrolment rate for university studies in Spain is 31.1; instead, in Galicia, 27.6; that is, we have to increase, put ourselves at least on the level of Spain's average. Moreover, because it is absolutely necessary to alleviate the situation of labour difficulties, one of the most serious problems our country has, of labour difficulties of the youngest, which have a very difficult immersion into the labour market, with high unemployment and precarious rates. And, as you all know, we all know, vocational preparation and qualification are basic elements for employment and higher education makes a difference that makes it easier to face the labour market. On the other hand, of course, it doesn't have to be very insistent that the university system would increase its efficiency, because we're prioritizing the good results to get the free tuition. Of course also, this whole system of new rates or free rates in grade studies cannot, of course, go to the detriment of the university economy, which already have a lot of economic problems, because, as they have said on many occasions, what the Board brings to the university system does not cover all the expenses they have. The Public Service is, of course, responsible for this payment as an individual right. Of course, it would be necessary to arbitrate the amounts of compensation, which must be reflected in the funding plan of the Galician university system. But you can do it easily, because our calculations lead us to think that these are small amounts, less than 10 million euros, that will be gradually and compensate for the benefits that this measure will bring to Galicia. So we see no reason not to be accepted and to benefit and increase equal opportunities in our public system. I want to make, before I'm done -- sorry, and I'm done -- an indication. He spoke before this system, practically the same, is already in operation in Andalusia. I'm saying this because surely the voicer lord of the People's Party is going to say that we have very low plates here, but I want to remember that in Andalusia they are also very low, the second lowest in Spain, the little difference with Galicia. Therefore, the fact that we have low rates does not prevent this initiative from being launched. On the other hand, whether the rates are low or high depends, as you understand perfectly, on whatever the family economy; for some they will be very low, but for most of them they are a very important burden on family income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u216	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are going to support the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party. I will also explain in my presentation the amendment of amendment with which we have introduced some elements that are important to us in the debate that is open today. We agree absolutely that it is essential to ensure access to higher education, to university higher education in our country in equity for all people, regardless of the level of income that families have. In addition, tuition prices are added to the burden of questions to which many families have to face in our country and which goes far beyond the cost of tuition, which has to do with academic material, but which in many cases also has to do with the maintenance of those individuals in those cases where we have to leave our cities, even in our provinces, in order to be able to pursue higher education. We will always defend this access in terms of equity and always guarantee — Mrs Burgo has also now pointed out — the sufficient budgetary resources for public universities in our country. After I'm stopped, because just yesterday, the Galego Institute of Statistics published the report on the expenditure and income of the public universities in Wales and we're at a level in 2019 that places us below the income they had from universities in 2009, that is, there is a decade ago — we can talk about it — and that also implies — and this I think it has to do with one of the issues that the initiative talks about — that the State also assumes its share of funding, the support of the public university system in this country or, at least, the economic relationship that was already being discussed this morning, because it is the one who collects the bulk of taxes and manages the large amount of public resources that are available to it by the Public Administration. We have tabled from the BNG a modification amendment to include a question that is absolutely fundamental to us when we talk about registrations. What we propose is to include the reduction of tuition prices in the masters, of all masters, to equate also the situation in relation to what was done this year, which is those qualified masters, i.e. those who are indispensable to be able to practice professionally, e.g. architecture, for example medicine, for example teaching, so that they have the same cost as grade studies. At present in our country the price, the average cost of master's registrations varies between one thousand three hundred and one thousand nine hundred euros; there are above these counts, but the bulk of master's qualifications in our country is over one thousand three hundred and one thousand nine hundred euros. The study is virtually mandatory, every time the Bologna Plan is imposed, adaptation of the space of higher education to European space, and to that 4+1 system, which leads us to study the same years as a bachelor's degree but paying absolutely impossible tuition for many families when we talk about the masters. What we're proposing is that this equivalence in that registration price review should also be extended to the masters, in order to address in addition to a double problem. On the one hand, to lower the prices where they were most likely to rise, precisely by this freeze of fees, of which Mrs. Burgo also spoke, but which continue to keep some master's licenses absolutely insatiable in many cases; and then to curb one of the most harmful effects of something that is yet to come, which is that implementation of model 3+2 with the decree adopted by Minister Wert, by the People's Party, in 2015, which is a model — we repeatedly denounce the whole educational community on the streets — of the 3+2, absolutely elite, which is also a brake on access to these higher studies in terms of equity and social justice. We therefore propose that we also address the question of teachers — I insist — since both model 4+1 and model 3+2 are virtually compulsory to access that level of training which Mrs Burgo spoke about — demands the labour market. But I will also say: the economic crisis, the labour reforms and the reality that we live in today's labour market in our country lead to people who are doctored by this country's public university throwing canes at breweries. And I can put them names and names of doctors from the University of Santiago who are in the city of Ourense pulling canes at least, almost, from the minimum wage and working on contracts for hours. Having this level of training today doesn't guarantee that you become a millionaire. When I entered the university door in 2007, being a millionaire was like the worst. And today we have teachers, doctors — people who could contribute a great deal to the social and economic development of this country — pulling canes for absolutely poor wages. And I insist — and this concludes — that it is always — and it is a matter that we also incorporate in our amendment — that access to the resources they need as water from May should be guaranteed to public universities in this country. I invite everyone to go to the report that yesterday made public by the Galego Institute of Statistics and to see what the economic situation of this country's public university system is, where university income is, as of 2019, below what they had a decade ago. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u218	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It goes on to support this proposal not of law, because it coincides with a demand in which we fully agree with this parliamentary group: total, effective and truly freeness in teaching, and not how it happens. Mrs Burgo had already said so in her speech: it is not an extraordinary request, but it goes online with what we have in so many countries around us, where we usually like to look at ourselves. We once again demand the need to guarantee this right for all people, regardless of the economic conditions of everyone. And that's not what happens today. On the contrary, we have students who can't continue at the university for the price of fees, girls and boys who could never even think of going to university for a kind of Asian luxury for their families. We have families that make a huge effort every month, every year; and they even owe themselves to the banks to be able to pay the fees, the housing or the material. Because it's a lot of things, a lot of expenses that have to deal with families to send their daughters and children to college. We have girls and boys with precarious days to be able to pay the credits, added to class hours. We will not tire of repeating it: whether a young person or a young person has to abandon university studies or not to start them for economic reasons is a collective failure that, as a society, we should not allow. We insist, either they're for everyone or they're not rights. And, in this sense, to ensure that all girls and boys have the same opportunities to access university studies, of course, have to do with guaranteeing a fundamental right, but it has to do with the very quality of democracy. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we have agreed, or we seem to agree, fundamentally, with the ideological conviction — Mrs Burgo said — that this initiative brings with it. But I say "seems" because the truth is, unfortunately, when the Socialist Group arrived in the Government it did not derogate all the educational cuts, and we have to regret it. He didn't, and we have to talk, of course, about the amendment of the Royal Decree 12/2012. They did not repeal that article, as we asked them, 81.3, which opened the door to the brutal rise of university fees. They could do it and they didn't want it, although it was one of the subjects that our group in Congress put on the table in the budget negotiation. We tell them: Derogate the aspects of Royal Decree 12/2012 directly linked to the rise of rates. They had the hand to do it. They lower the fork established in that decree, which sets out where prices should float in degrees and masters, until they reach zero. You said no, they said no, although we're in the fourth state with the most expensive tuitions in all of Europe, only exceeded by the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands; although we have access to university studies ten points below the European average. When we wanted to talk about the total reversal of university cuts, the Socialist Party, in the Government, told us no, not at the moment, that we'd be talking about in the future, that the autonomous communities wanted it to be done. Yes, let them do it, of course. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal. But what we ask of them is that, when they have it in their hand, they don't doubt it. When they could do it, they didn't. When they could finish all the clippings, they didn't. We think they've been wrong, and when you have the ability to end austerity, you have to do it without doubt, with force. When you're holding hands to put an end to abusive university prices, you have to do it, you have to stand up clearly and not take responsibility only for autonomous communities. Because, to govern whoever rules here or there, our stance will be clear, our vows will always be to add to equal opportunities, they will always be to add rights. To reduce the enrolment rates paid by the student is, of course, essential to bring down one of the main barriers to entry into the university system that ordinary people have, which have the children and children of the working families in this country; less fees and, of course, more scholarships for people who need it, more scholarships linked to the socioeconomic situation of families, so that we do not continue to see that many people with merit and willingness to continue studying have to give up because they cannot afford to continue; and less chronicize the situation of their families. We want to talk about this kind of bag and we tend to hand to talk about this kind of bag and not about the bags that constantly reward excellence. We want to regain the role of the university as a true social elevator, as a place of equality to return to the privatization and elitist of public education imposed by the People's Party, which in only four years was able to reduce, for example, the average of the scholarships received by girls and boys in this country. And for that we need to consistently and truly repeal Royal Decree 12/2012 in all its articles and, of course, as far as university fees are concerned, increase the money available for scholarships and improve budget funding. We need, of course, agreements with the Socialist Group. And for us, I'm telling you it won't stay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u220	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Look, as you are, Mrs. Burgo, considering your initiative, we understand that it's not progressive, it's not redistributive. What they're doing is exempting all people, regardless of their income levels and economic levels, from paying the fees. We're talking about getting public money from people's services that you need and putting them in to pay a fee to people who don't need it. That's why we say that, as it is proposed, we believe it is little redistributive. With that money, only in education, we can improve our scholarships, we can hire more teachers, we can improve our equipment or help with research, only in education. In the face of these demagogic policies, we can talk about other policies, which are in which the People's Party is working, which is to improve these scholarships, to improve the help for those who really need them, and to be able to ensure that no one gets out of the university system for economic issues. This must be the primary objective of an administration, to help those people and not people, indiscriminately, who don't need it. But today and yesterday we talked a lot about electoralism. And I sincerely believe that this non-law proposal is the culmination of electoralism in this Parliament. Because what you are asking us with this non-law proposition is that a breach of Pedro Sánchez will pay you to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I mean, I promise, I spend ten months without fulfilling it, and now, before the elections, I want to whiten my posture and pay Galicia. Look, the academic fee system is subject to state legislation. And, as they had already told him, he started putting the money on Galicia. We're not talking about the 850 million, the president's talking about this morning, who owes us and who has to move. We're not talking about that, we're talking about putting the money in your promises. Because, of course, it's easy to come here, throw out the king's powder and make promises for others to pay. I invite you to the party, pay the autonomous community and it will be arranged. Well they could put it in the budgets, in those fantastic budgets that hurt Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] They didn't remember that either. But look, Mrs Chao, if they seemed so bad to you about the policies and budgets of the Socialist Party, why do they vote for them in Madrid? That's hypocrisy. Now we arrive, we continue with electoralism, and of what we vote and support in Madrid here we do not remember. In any case, what they invite and pay the autonomous communities is what we say: they had many Fridays during the ten months to be able to approve this and they didn't. It was a commitment from the socialist government. Pedro Sánchez is breaking his commitments again. But, look, the first thing they could do was meet the dates and people cover the bags that the Ministry has to send. This same week, we read that twenty-one thousand fellows from Greece have to wait seven months to collect their scholarships. The first one is to pay the bags, the first one! But, look, of course, I'd already put the sale before the wound the socialist voicer, I'm not surprised. Because, of course, in the Bipartite years, what did we see? Rises of 4% of the annual rates, 4% above the IPC every year! That was Bipartite's policy when he ruled. When Feijóo arrived, what did he do? First, while there was the state policy of the PSOE, meet the minimum requirement of increasing the law — which was the IPC —. And when Mariano Rajoy arrived and allowed him to freeze the taxes, they looked at the politics of the People's Party. What did the People's Party do in Galicia? Frozen, in seven or eight years, the rates. That's politics and difference. [[Applause]] That's why I'm not surprised you put the sale before the wound, because you know that when they ruled, what they did was to raise the rates, increase the costs for families. And when the People's Party arrives, lowers or lowers them. Because, look, they again committed themselves to the 2018-2019 course to freezing fees. But not only that, but they also lowered themselves at the same price as those of the qualified masters. Of course, they're, again, the cheapest in Spain. And we're still the autonomous community with cheaper rates. Because that's politics, helping and minimizing. But, look, we're going to continue with that policy of helping and complementing the Ministry's scholarships, but the first thing the Ministry has to do is to keep its own promises and put money — I mean, the 800 million more people who want to promise and commit — but don't come with populisms, demagoxies and electoralisms, and come on an election campaign to promise her something to pay for the Autonomous Community of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u222	Let us, I say, continue to try to facilitate, by improving and complementing State scholarships, the ability of people to access university, so that no one stays outside the Greek university system for economic problems. But that's enough of the free bar for everyone, even for people who don't need it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u223	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of BNG and En Marea. As for the amendment, I wanted to tell Mrs. Olalla that I fully understand what she says and that we are, moreover, absolutely according to her. But we prefer not to include teachers in this initiative right now, and to treat them separately; firstly, also because we don't talk to the principals about this situation yet, and we'd like to do it. But if we agree that this has to be the second part of this provision. The last part of your amendment, of course, we accept it, because it makes it clear what we want to say. Mrs. Chao, you have no doubt that we are going to do everything you say from the state government. Mr. Pedro Sánchez has already said — he said it! – that he was going to... it's true, you have to keep in mind that it's ten months. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Decree 12/2012 will be eradicated, so promised. There will be an attempt to ensure that there is an equal or similar rate parameter — and in this case free — for the grade throughout Spain. And if there'll be money to do it. If you haven't done it yet, it's because you're talking to the Council of Universities about how this situation is based, where there are state competences and competences of the autonomous communities as well. And, Mr. Fernández, let's see if we can clear up some point. You are unable to understand that distribution is done through taxation, that rights are paid with taxation, because you already pay more than you have. Rights are not done according to people's income, they're open to everyone, and then people pay more according to what they have. [[Applause]] This is a matter of rights. As for electoralism: do I not know whether Mr Feijóo's decision to suddenly not talk to the universities — by the way, we do speak — was also electoralist, to lower the price of the masters? You understand that equality and equality of opportunity are electoralism. This is already presented in this chamber as a resolution in the debate on autonomy, that is, long before there were elections or not. On the other hand, you say you pay without budgets: look, in the 2019 budgets there was a lot of the money you need to do this. What is needed is that all autonomys are agreed upon. But I want to finish with one thing, Mr. Fernández: you must immediately call Mr. Moreno of Andalusia. You have to call him, because, look, Mr Moreno, president of Andalusian autonomy and member of his party, has just approved that the bonuses in Andalusia are not modified from the bonus registrations. I mean, the PSOE said they didn't change, considering what you could do and more Vox... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u225	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u226	Please, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u227	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u228	And what did Mr. Moreno do in Andalusia? To vote in favour of the Socialist Party's request. Why did he do it? For electionism? No, because he said they were benefiting almost 90,000 Andalusian students. And he said, besides -- and you can go check it out -- that it was one of the most important measures that had been taken in the last few years in Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u230	I don't know why they like Andalusia and not here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u232	But you know what? —Final—the ideas of you, from time to time and speak one or another, we know what they are like: changers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Before we proceed to the polls, we greet the students and students of the 2nd ESO of the Leiras Pulpeiro center of Lugo. Welcome to Parliament. We now proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the non-legislative proposals, in this case, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Burgo. On the amendment of the Block, he said he did not accept it, although on the second part he said he accepted a second part. Give a voice to Mrs. Burgo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u234	Yes, I accept the last paragraph of the amendment. If you want, I'll read it or I'll cut it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u235	Yes, bird...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u236	That's the last sentence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u237	Thank you. We vote with the last sentence accepted as added. That's right. [[Mrs. Burgo López speaks words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union jointly with the three universities of Galicia to review the current system of academic fees. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u238	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Prado. A transaction with some addition points is pending. Mrs. Prado, did you have any transactions pending? Mrs. Prado, I'm talking to you. You don't accept the amendment. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia in the face of the situation of public health in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u239	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Santos. I was pending a transaction, I don't know if they got to that transaction. Have you got her there? [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga: Yes.]] Have you got any legal services? Have you ever heard of that transaction? [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga: Yes.]] Well, let's read it. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Will you pass me the deal, please? [[Mrs. Prado del Río: I haven't been taught anything.]] The transaction is to replace point 2 and 3 of the proposal by point 2 of the amendment, with a point vote, with which they become five points. And in the point-by-point vote, one point? Five points and 1 separately? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The four. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, when we understand the transaction, we are voting, first of all, point 4. We vote. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. In Marea, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the independence of public office, the regime of incompatibilities, conflicts of interest, rotational doors and possible cases of illicit enrichment in autonomous institutions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 4 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u240	Let's vote for the rest of the points now. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. In Marea, except for point 4, already voted on, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the independence of public office, the regime of incompatibilities, conflicts of interest, rotational doors and possible cases of illicit enrichment in autonomous institutions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u241	We are now voting on the proposal from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Sanchez. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the declaration of environmental impact that the Government must issue in connection with the project to reopen the Touro mine. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u242	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and three other Members, on the management to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the implementation of the budgetary surplus of the autonomous communities and the incentives provided for in additional provision 151 of the General Budgets Act of the State, as well as the action to be taken to promote an annual plan to improve primary health care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u243	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Bará. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo: From the first point.]] Do you accept your point-by-point vote? Just the first point? [[Mr Bará pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Or does everyone else go? [[Mr Bará pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So, first of all, we are voting on the first point in the proposal from the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the extension of the grant granted to Cence in the lands of public-terrestrial domination of Lourizán, in the River Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u244	We are now voting on the remaining points of this proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, except point 1, already voted, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the extension of the grant granted to Cence on the lands of public-terrestrial domination of Lourizán, in the Pontevedra River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u245	We are now voting on the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group through Mr Jacobo Moreira. They do not accept amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group or from En Marea. [[Mr Vilán Lorenzo: Again, we wanted to call for a point vote.]] He called for a point of order. A point of order was not accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and sixteen other Members, on the position and demands to be transferred by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the decision of the State's Advocate to seek the appeals brought against the agreement to extend the granting of Cence on the grounds of Lourizán, in Pontevedra, as well as on the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to its workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u246	We are voting now, finally — it is a change in the agenda, Mr Sánchez, that is why we are going to vote now — that of the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado, but which has been defended by Mrs Barreira. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was pending a transaction. [[Murmurs.]] If you read it, Mrs. Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. We got a transactional text. In the second point, since a master plan for the Atlantic corridor was requested to collect planning and specific projects, and we agree that certain projects — that is not to say that our initiative did not include it, but that we already envisaged it — remains the following—so add to point 2—: "That between the specific projects of the Plan Director for the Atlantic corridor pay particular attention to the following: the railway connection with the ports of general interest, the Monforte Harbour and PLISAN, as well as the connection of the large business and logistics parks; the railway connection with the outer port of Punta Langosteira, ensuring the financing of the European Union and state budgets, without the contribution of economic funds by the Coruña Harbour Authority, so that it can be bid and start to the projects this year; the processing and approval of the project for the southern release of Vigo, with the release of Vicue 2019. As it adds to our point 5, where we request the drafting of a plan for the conservation and modernization of the rest of the railway network; we also detail — add to point 5—: "This plan will include, at least, the following actions: modernization of the Ferro-Ribadeo line, modernization and improvement of the outline of the Ferro-A Coruña line, improvement of the Vigo-Port connection and modernization of the Ourense-Lugo line. As a matter of fact, it will dominate the territory by improving the connections, frequencies and times between the main cities and the towns of Greece." And a point 6 adds, with the following wording: "The one which in the framework of the revision of European Regulation 1315/2013, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 calls for the inclusion of the port of Vigo in the basic port network of the Trans-European Transport Network and urges the Government of the State to act in the same way".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u248	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the Director Plan for the Atlantic corridor presented on 20 February in Madrid. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u249	And now I'm going to read an institutional statement that brings the groups to me, related to the International Day of the People of the Shit. "On the occasion of the International Day of the People of the Shit, on 8 April, the Parliament of Galicia wishes to join this celebration. Our legal system collects equality as a principle and value shared by all Spaniards and includes some articles that endorse and allow the implementation of policies to ensure equal opportunities, combat discrimination and promote the participation of all citizens. It's undeniable that living conditions have improved even though much remains to be done; the schooling of Gypsy children is a reality and, gradually, more and more young people and girls complete the stage of compulsory education and continue to study at university. The labour market, though slowly, is also opening up to Gypsies and Gypsies. Access to normalized housing is not yet a reality, and chabolism remains a challenge to address. And we have more and more mechanisms and resources to fight against rejection and discrimination suffered by Gypsy people. Even so, the gap between inequality persists, especially among women. The Roma community is overrepresented in poverty rates and social exclusion. The rates of failure and dropout are much higher among Gypsy students than in the Spanish average. The rate of unemployment in the Roma population and the level of precarious employment are far above the average percentages, to put just a few examples. Ultimately, equal opportunities is not a reality for a large part of the Roma community. In line with the celebration of the International Day of the Gypsy People, we want to underline the progress that has been made in the institutional recognition of the Gypsy people and the progressive participation of Gypsies and Gypsies in all areas of society. We must continue to bet on policies, initiatives and programs that contribute to ensuring these social rights for all Roma people, without leaving anyone behind, so that they can fully exercise their citizenship." Santiago de Compostela, April 10, 2019. [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And now yes, open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda, in this case with the interpelerations. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of xunta de Galicia in relation to the creation of public schools children from 0 to 3 years in industrial polygons and business parks
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u250	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco. [[Murmurs.]] Chist, joke, joke, please. Whenever you want, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u251	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. Today we ask about a subject, a matter that is important to us: the network of public little schools in Galicia, which should be the expansion of this network, one of the key strategic lines of the Greek Government, by its importance, by the priority they have, but which, in fact, is converted into one of the maizes of this government. One of the most important public resources in socio-working and demographic terms, an indispensable tool to improve the reconciliation of family and work life, to increase the rate of female occupation, to offer public resources to bring back those thousands of young and young people who have left our country, but above all — and most importantly for us — to reduce social inequalities and improve the opportunities of children and children who are in the most vulnerable social, economic and cultural backgrounds. Yesterday we saw the INE fertility survey with reference to the year 2018. I understand you will agree with us that it is alarming and that it seems that Galicia's own future is compromised as a country, because one of the most scandalous data told us that Galicia has the highest percentage of women without children, 93.5% exactly. From the PSdEG if we believe in women's freedom to choose whether to have children or not — I want to highlight that — the possibility to decide that we have always defended in all areas. But the problem is right there. In children under thirty, they wish they had between two or more children 67% of these women. 67% is also the figure of those who are already out of their fertile age they had liked in their lifetime to have more than two children. The case is that these figures have not been recorded in our country since the 1980s and that the reality is that women have an average in this country because little more than one. Why? For that terrible breach between desires and reality is explained for labour reasons, precariousness, low wages, job instability and the impossibility of reconciling working life with family. In general, in this survey two out of four women reproach this impossibility of compatibility their job with the upbringing of a child or a girl, a figure that has been increasing in recent years. According to the IGE, there are 58,201 children aged between 0 and 3 years in Galicia. Well, we don't miss this gap that exists if we keep in mind that there are only squares in public childhood and public management schools for one of ten children or girls in this autonomous community. [[Applause]] If we consider the global square, including the concerted ones, there is only four out of ten squares available. Last year, on the provisional lists of schools in the Blue Chicken, almost 4,000 children were left. If we ask about the shortage of residential squares for older children what they tell us is that, of course, there is a high percentage of over sixty-five years old, the first one we want to ask you today is how it is possible that in Galicia, with a negative vegetative balance, where there are 13,522 dead more than born, there is a waiting list, Counsellor, in this autonomous community. Well, look, I'm going to tell you what you've done in the last ten years. For the first time in history they established concerts with private entities, in 2015; right now they are almost 40% of the total. The strategy is clear: while we are engulfed with advertising and advertising figures of new squares in children's schools, which never get to materialize, what they do is to redirect all these families to private schools, through this Bono Conciliation, that we have already been baptized on many occasions like the Bono Privatiza. Besides, Mr. Feijóo's great election promise was a new fiasco, these infantry schools in industrial polygons. You are not running 80% of the budget. Why? Because you're doing everything random, it's all advertising and propaganda, without concerted, without specific social agents, and, above all, a few weeks ago, President Feijó is still coming to ask them for cooperation. But do you collaborate that if you don't consult or heed the advice given to them by the social agents themselves? And, of course, because they don't execute him, so what did they do? Dialogue? No, no, no, no. Since they don't execute him, what they did was cut them off. In 2019 there are EUR 8800,000 and it turns out that in the first budgets of the legislation there were 1.7 million, less than half for that great election promise of Mr Feijóo. Prices went up, too. They went up the prices at the time the families were going through the worst, a rise of 19% of the total, multiplying by two the dining room price in 2012. I'm going to give you an example: a family of four members (two adults and two children), with about eleven thousand euros a year's income, with this increase of the average interprofessional salary that President Pedro Sánchez had made, with the minimum wage, that family would have to pay, even though a reduced price, yes, would have to pay for that place in a childhood school; apart from, he would have to pay the dining service and, if he wanted, an hour more attention to the little boy or girl. A woman who earns the minimum inter-professional wage that has two children — i.e. we speak of a monomantal family, which we have discussed and discussed here on many occasions which are one of those who are most at risk of poverty and social exclusion — would have to pay the same, too, a reduced rate, but apart from the dining room and that larger hour. And we want to ask you: does it seem normal to you that, with these two examples, with these two family models that we have just illustrated here, you have to pay? Do you think it's normal, that that it's contributing to palliating, diminishing the inequalities in our country? [[Applause]] Of course, but some people do. Municipal schools in Vigo. These families, who only enter by family unit the minimum interprofessional wage, pay zero euros per square, zero euros per dining room and zero euros per hour, plus they have to leave their children and girls in these centres. Socialists, Counsellor, we believe that schooling is a right that must be guaranteed, fundamental to the best interests of the child, for their child development in all areas, a contribution that is particularly relevant in those cases of children and girls coming from more vulnerable social, cultural or economic backgrounds, as well as for those children with disabilities, for whom it is a very powerful compensating factor, a valuable tool for making a strong bet for more inclusive education. It is also a very profitable investment, because it facilitates the acquisition of skills, skills, and skills, and it is also proven that it decreases in subsequent educational stages at school failure rate and school dropout itself. So the Government of Pedro Sánchez wants to promote this universalization of schooling from 0 to 3 years and that is why in the budgets for this year there are 300 million euros, 300 million euros that you voted against. They voted against moving towards the freeness of education in the early stages of life, voted 'no' to improve the reconciliation of families, reduce social inequalities and also improve the opportunities of the most disadvantaged children. Of course, because here you seem to be — from the Socialist Group we have begun to see it this way since the Government of Pedro Sánchez arrived, since we arrived at the Government after that motion of censure — they are like the people who look at the works, that is, they start to criticise themselves: this goes wrong, the other one goes wrong, but they are in cross-armed while others do a job and an effort. You're looking, out of sight, Counselor, while the others work. [[Applause]] And the problem is not that we work -- we're comfortable working for equal opportunities, we carry it in DNA -- the problem is that you're or have so far been working on these opportunities that we had. We've made it clear that this is not our roadmap, and the question is whether you're going to continue to maintain in the public childhood schools of the Galician Union these wise, supportive policies that are also promoting inequality in the early years of life of children and children. And thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u253	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, good afternoon. It's always a pleasure to come to this House to talk about the reconciliation between working and personal life, since most of the Greeks and Greeks think this is a priority action to make Galicia the best place to form a family. The times when a family member, always the wife, was conditioned to stay at home to take care of the children, were happily spent in history. Women's incorporation into the labour market was one of the most important changes our society has experienced in the last half century. This was fundamental to explaining the unprecedented economic growth and well-being that we have lived through the past few decades, and it also made social tissue need to seek new solutions for child care during the time when both parents are working. Over the past ten years, the Greek Government has put itself to the head of Galicia as regards the improvement of conciliation. We have done this both to set an example for the rest of the social agents and to strengthen the network of well-being that we enjoy today all the Greeks and Greeks. The results of this historic bet on the creation of conciliation resources are in sight of all. Since 2009, the number of public squares in children's schools has doubled at the disposal of the Greek families, and today there are more than twenty-four thousand. [[Applause]] Since 2009, pioneering resources have been created, such as the 1960s and a small house, which bring together the possibility of reconciling rural areas, when it was previously practically restricted to cities. Since 2009, the Conciliation Bond has been launched, which has helped four thousand and four hundred families who have not been able to access a public school square for children to pay a square in the center they choose. Since 2009, a pilot experience has been launched such as the Bono Care, a direct aid to families who need a caretaker in timely circumstances and which this year can also be asked to pay for a playful. And since 2009, specifically from 2016 onwards, the Greek business parks have been providing help to set up a child's school in one of their parcels. Although for some reason, Mrs. Blanco, you refer to your question only to the 2017 call, I believe it is necessary to reflect on this call since its inception. Since 2016 this aid order has driven the launch of three infant schools: that of the Pozo River polygon, in Narón, with sixty-one squares and which is already running; that of the Mos industrial polygon, with seventy-four squares and which is already running, and that I had the opportunity to visit yet a month and a half ago; and that of the Tomato Polygon, in the Caraminal Poor, with forty-one squares, which is already in the final stages of its construction and whose opening is planned in the near future. And as in any order of help, there are some proposals that have not come forward for some reason. In this case, in the three calls that occurred, there were seven projects that did not go ahead. One was denied failure to meet the requirements set out in the summons, the other two voluntarily resigned because they were not able to start the child's school on the deadline set by the summons, and the other four were rejected for not reaching the documentation required for finding serious pitfalls in the councils. Mrs. Blanco, there's something, really, I'm sorry: there are business associations that had the serious determination to move forward their project and that they couldn't because they found many urban traps. I think the task of administrations is to make it easier for them to go forward with interesting initiatives, such as this aid order, and that only bad administrations put unnecessary cutting-ups, shielding themselves on endless paperwork and on requirements that no one understands. There was a group of entrepreneurs in Vigo who took an interest in order, but unfortunately he never got to materialize. I'm sure you know why: because you have encountered difficulties and many obstacles in the Town Hall to adapt the use of land. I trust that circumstances like this, which deprived the vicars and the vicars of having a childhood school, do not repeat again. In the last summons of this order he obtained help the association of entrepreneurs of the farm polygon in the Porriño. I hope, Mrs. Blanco, that you will speak to the mayor of the Porriño to make sure that the project of this new childhood school reaches a good port. Of course, I can tell you that the support of the Board, whenever it meets, of course, the terms of the summons, is assured. Ladies and gentlemen, this order of help has allowed these first three calls to create a hundred and seventy-six new children's school squares, and so that in the future they may be more, I think two things are necessary. First of all, that the order continues to perfect and bring about reconciliation resources where families work, and that's why, starting with the 2019 call, it will also fund the set-up of children's schools in work centres as can be our fishermen's confrereries, with a specific and enormous weight in Galicia and in the Greek coastal populations. And secondly, it is also necessary to involve local entities, who are committed to conciliation, who make life easier for families who work in industrial polygons and confrries, and who put everything on their side, so that these spaces can count on more and more children's schools every day. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to guarantee the future of Galicia, it is necessary for all families to have the necessary facilities to have children. That is a goal that must bring us all together, all social agents, from companies, non-profit entities, all administrations, the self-government, the local administration, and of course also the national, and not, ladies and gentlemen, also the involvement of political parties, of all, because the improvement of conciliation does not understand colors, bands or benches. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u254	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u255	Thank you, President. Counselor, you started by saying something that from our point of view is quite serious: that happened to the story that women stay at home. Look, I don't know if it's ignorance or ideology, but it's true that women in Galicia stay at home not only to look after children and girls but also to take care of dependent people, our parents, their daughters-in-laws, their grandparents, and their grandmothers, and it seems a lie that the social policy advisor doesn't know this reality, while more than 90 percent of the caregivers — those whom the Socialist Party has returned to them for social security — are women, Counsellor. [[Applause]] Well, budgets, let's see. In the 2016 budgets, children's schools are planned to be created in:—this comes in the memory of the Consortium, it is not being invented by the PSdeG—: Mos, Paderne de Allariz, Santiago de Compostela, The Road. In the budgets of 2017 it is planned to build new infantry schools in Mos, Paderne de Allariz, Santiago de Compostela, The Road. In the budgets of 2018, children's schools are planned to be built in —apart from other sites — Mos, Paderne de Allariz, Santiago de Compostela and The Road. In the budgets of the year 2019 is pending construction of Paderne de Allariz's childhood school, 520,000 euros. I'm just going to put it, because I don't have time, the example of this childhood school. There's not even a stone and it's unsolicited and you come here saying that the Government of Galicia is making every effort to expand the network of children's schools in Galicia. Counsellor, please tell yourself, in memory of your budgets every year! Well, there's two news this year, the one about Pontedeme and the one about Round it, in 2019, that they accumulate, too, as I told you, the one about Paderne de Allariz. At this rate it would take more than ten years to cover the demand for squares, because look, it happens every year, every year. In Coruña: "60 per cent of requests for places in children's schools, on a waiting list". Ourense: "nearly six hundred children from Ourense have been left without places in public kindergartens." Vilagaría: "Seventy children from Vilagarcia are left uninhabited in public kindergartens." Santiago de Compostela: "The four children's schools in the Union have 531 applications on a waiting list." Pontevedra: "More than five hundred children are out of place in kindergartens." Of course, how are you not going to get out of place if you're not making any kind of budget effort to put the missing ones in place, even more when President Feijó himself said in 2017 that he promised that in the next course there will be no guard lists in the nursery and it turns out that last year there were more than four thousand? Counsellor, how do you explain this situation? We explained it from the point of view of ideology. Look, in Andalusia, after more than ten years of freezing prices in public childhood schools, it turns out that now the children and daughters of those low-income families are going to have to pay for the children's school square, while they've approved that those children of those 300 great Andalusian fortunes who inherit more than one million euros won't pay taxes. Counsellor, that's no less than ideology, the shameful ideology that doesn't fight for equal opportunities and does not fight for social justice. It's his ideology. Because look, of course, that happens in Andalusia, what chance!, just like it happened in Galicia in 2015. But to you, who came here to talk about the councils, I want to say that the councils, first of all, with regard to the Vigo and the Porriño Council, I am convinced that both you, as representative of the Greek Government, as President of the Galician Council, respect the work of public employees, because these licenses are not given by the work and grace of the Holy Spirit; you give a license with a regulated act. And it's very serious that you come here to criticize the public officials of two municipalities, the one of Vigo and the one of the Porriño. That, Counselor, is of extreme gravity and I hope you correct in your second intervention. Because in Vigo, besides -- I told you before -- it turns out that the children and girls in this city pay half that the rest of the Greeks and Greeks for the children's schools. It turns out the Town Hall is subsidizing 82% of the cost. It turns out that in Vilagarcia the childhood school — the last one, which will be inaugurated soon — was built with funds from the Town Hall and the Deputy of Pontevedra, and what contributed the Government of Greece was a hundred thousand euros for equipment. Counsellor, that's your effort and effort that the Greek municipalities are making. Well, we're gonna...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u257	...—now finished, President—asking for increased investment in the creation of public management squares; ensuring sufficient coverage for demand; guaranteeing universality, helping to eliminate such gender inequalities, fighting for equity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u259	...to improve reconciliation. We're going to do it also through the Government of Spain, and we're going to start with most of us convinced that we're going to have from May...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. You've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u261	...and we wait then, even if you oppose, that little or nothing will matter. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, it would be absurd for me to go up this rostrum to tell you that everything is already done on conciliation, that we have reached the maximum of our possibilities and that we have nothing left to do. It would prove a lack of realism on my part. But I don't think it's very defensive either, with the look in reality, to say that everything is going fatal, that we're worse than ever and that any change will be worse. Galicia's recent history rejects this kind of positioning, because today there are more squares in children's schools than ever — twice the year 2009 — because today it's easier than ever to reconcile in rural areas and because today the Greek families have more support than ever before in order to build their own project of life. [[Applause]] I am aware that there is still much to be done, and that is why in this year's call for aid for the creation of children's schools in work circles, which is why I am being questioned today — or should be being questioned — we are going to introduce important improvements. The main thing — I have done it before — is to open up the possibility that, in addition to the business associations, they can also ask for support from the other entities like our fishermen's confrereries. But there is more news, with which I would like to move forward today and with whom I hope to be able to respond to this interpellation. The call is flexible to open up the possibility of launching smaller resources. So far there was a minimum of three units and forty and one squares, and from this year on, when there is not enough demand, they could create centres with fewer squares in classrooms where children of different ages live, and the summons better suit the rural character of our country of Galicia, in order to favor their arrival in the less populated areas. Mrs. Blanco, you're talking about caring people. Of course, of course, I know well the situation of these caregivers and their families, and that's why we just increased them by 10% of the benefit they pay, and they're going to charge it in April, Mrs. Blanco. Of course we're worried about caring people. [[Applause]] Look, the Social Policy Council welcomes the progress made with the implementation of children's schools around the workplace, but we are aware of all that remains to be done to achieve still full reconciliation. And that's why it's necessary to count on the active participation of business entities and municipalities in order to offer more resources to mothers and parents every day to help their children's children and to give all the facilities possible to anyone who wants to set up a childhood school. I assure you that at the Galician Council they will find no obstacles, but support and impulse, and that's why we're improving this call for help, so that they can get to more work centers every day. I, indeed, Mrs. Blanco, who since the Council of Galicia will always continue to work, we will always continue to take safe steps in a less and less focused future, until we reach the goal of a better society, and for that we need all the agents involved to work, elbowed and rowed in the same direction, to achieve full reconciliation. I trust that all parliamentary groups share the goals that we have set ourselves, because, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of conciliation will continue to be one of the main and priority objectives of the Galician Union and of course also of the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u264	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u265	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with the second of the interpelerations. Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, from G.P. in Marea, on the employment policy of the Galician Union in relation to the forest fire prevention and extinction device
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u266	To make an inquiry, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u267	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Galicia's back on fire, and she's doing it in the middle of winter. The accumulated data indicates that the first weeks of the year are where fewer fires occur in our country, but the last few years also indicate a trend that goes contrary, in the line of alerts launched by various sources of experts and experts related to climate change, which will be added to factors already known, such as the current territorial structure of Galicia or how it can be climate change or the extension of eucalyptus. Most of the burning hectares are located in the province of Ourense, Pontevedra, in the Barbanza area. This is the background panel for the early days of 2019 to burn on the Greek mountains more than it burned on the surface in the past year, once the Rural Middle Council keeps — also with you, the new head of the Rural Middle Council — information policy based on not giving account of all the outbreaks of the fire. The opacity of information your office shows about forest fires contrasts with data and images that, essentially through social networks, disseminate professional collectives, such as firefighters themselves or how they can be forest and environmental agents. The president of the Union himself admitted, today, 15 days ago, that, for practical purposes, his Government continues to apply the information restrictions on fires — restrictions that he put in place, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, ten years ago — and thus stated that during March 26th, the fire force had to intervene in more than thirty-nine fires, but the Union did not report any of these half. Louusame, Noia, The Bridges, The Mosque, Viana do Bolo, Vilarino de Conso, Verín, Dodro, Fisterra, Folgoso do Courel, Rianxo, Cerdedo, Cotobade, The Gudigna... are some of the areas affected another year by the incompetence of the Union to bring solutions to this masonry, the logging of forest fires. Of course there are criminals who make the match, but it's you, gentlemen and ladies of the People's Party, who in many cases are supplying the fuel for this to happen. In the forest fire prevention and extinction device, several actors live together, but at the time of the direct attack on the first line of fire, there are personnel conducting the tasks, such as agents or technicians essentially, and the personnel facing the flashlights, which are the brigades hired directly by the Rural Media Council, the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, the brigades contracted through the Seaga public enterprise, the brigades hired by the municipalities or the brigades of private companies. The forest agents, the Galician Union and the majority unions signed an agreement that put an end to the mobilization and strike that environmental and forest agents have maintained since July 25, 2018. The document was signed by union representatives and the Environmental Adviser, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez; the councillor, Valeriano Martínez; and yourself, you and the departments that participated in the open negotiating table with the workers this summer. However, there are still pending things, such as the creation of these thirty squares to strengthen the Service, in the face of the theft of the powers of the state's security forces and bodies. Let's remember Feijó's promise in this House to reinforce the research brigades with thirty square ways, as well as the compliance with the agreement of environmental technical agents in Group B. It hasn't passed a year yet, and you are already failing to comply with this agreement. Three-month Public Defence Service staff this year seems to be going to work for five months. It is essential and necessary to strengthen this device in order to meet and carry out the tasks which the law itself of the national civil protection system requires. At the next plenary session, in the form of a motion, we will ask this group to amend the current RPT of the Council in the sense that the duration of the reinforcement staff contract for the summer campaign increases over the current five months they are going to work this year, being equated with the workers and workers at least as staff has decontinuated, extending their relationship to a total of nine months. It's no more nuanced than it's a group that is uprooted and spread throughout the country's rural geography, it's strategically located as far as territorial coverage refers to itself and the added value of a broad knowledge of the territory after more than twenty-five years of work. The county brigades are doing exactly the same work as the service mates, but they're charging much less. Do you want to have brigades in the Town Councils? Well, they do, but they give the municipalities enough funding to work on decent wage conditions, like the rest of the workers and the public workers. And give it to the municipalities funding for PPE, give it to the councils funding for the proper training for this collective, for their sake and for the sake of our mountains. And all of this we'll also ask in fifteen days on the motion we'll register this week. Is there going to be a review of the working hours of these workers and city council workers -- do we have to remember that they're doubling prevention and extinction tasks on the same 12-hour day -- in order to adapt them to avoid risks to their safety? And this question can also be transpolated to Seaga's workers and workers. You have undertaken to check for the delay in publishing the decree that regulates the score to provide the Fire Extinction Service squares. Trade union representatives and employees of the public company presented themselves in an act you attended at the board's administrative building in Pontevedra and in which you participated to claim a meeting, at which they were finally able to expose their problems. They had already requested in writing to his Counsellor, to his person, twice that meeting, having the silence in reply. The problem is derived from the non-published amendment of the decree that regulates the score to provide these reinforcement sites for the Fire Extinction Service in rural areas. Will you recognize the time spent in Seaga when making the lists? How are we going to recognize that time? The works council has just convened a demonstration for April 24th — a demonstration that will be supported by En Marea — in which they demand an immediate solution for these five workers and workers who will possibly be excluded in the next extinction campaign. And then we have the measures that he promised here after the fire strike: protection tracks. They're doing it? Who's making them? How many municipalities are adhered to? Why aren't they all attached? This is a star measure which, by the way, is not yet being executed, whereas you have already declared the period of maximum risk on April 1st, and are unloading a responsibility over the municipalities, knowing their material inability to provide resources, economic and personnel to do so. The president was going to ensure here that all the municipalities, 100 percent of Galician municipalities, had forest fire brigades. Now there are municipalities that have refused to accede to these conventions because of the bureaucratic and justification problems that the grant has. Another measure: a unique command for all emergency services. It is clear that at present the Extinction Service we have in our country is totally atomized, because we know that there is no single command to coordinate all this in a proper way. Facilities for acting in the unknown owner plots. It is true that Junta is attempting to modify the regulatory framework so that these farms that currently appear with an unknown holder are incorporated into Agader's estate and are registered in the Property Register. We don't know how it's all advanced yet and we don't know if this mechanism will count on all legal guarantees. Precautionary incorporation into the Land Bank of the plots with unknown owner. We don't know very well how they're going to be able to do it when, technically and economically, Bantegal last year had a budget of ninety-four thousand euros for every country and this year has hardly increased. Precautionary incorporation into the Land Bank of the neighboring mountains in common or of difficult management abandoned. Same as the previous one. Land abandoned for agrarian polygons. We don't know how advanced this measure is. Participation of parliamentary groups in the forest plan relationship. Here we keep waiting. Impulse the management plans of the 19th forest districts. It hasn't started yet. Improve extensive pastoral areas in southern Galicia. It's not done. Continue to move forward in the partial restructuring, especially driven by individuals. I read textually the 2017 People's Valator's Report, where, according to the forecasts announced by the United States, one hundred and thirty partial mergers were to be completed in four years, and this report is highlighted in this time frame, which was delivered eleven.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u268	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u269	Technology platform to know the degree of protection of each mountain. You don't know. The forest research teams to support the police and the Civil Guard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u270	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u271	...in the search for the origin of the fires again it is a recommendation that is in the dictation but that is not instituted. And in the meantime, for it continues to burn the mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u273	I'm done. Your Council continues to improvise, they keep giving themselves blind on this subject, on the subject of forest fires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u275	...and we can only see a last end, which is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u276	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u277	...to go sewing broken and privatizing the Public Service for the Prevention of Forest Fires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u278	You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u279	...something that you're here for is a specialist. And we leave the rest for the next shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u281	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It reminds me of my first intervention, in which I also thought I was going to talk about something when I was a member of parliament and I had to finish talking about someone else, because I thought today the interview was about Seaga's workers, but there's no problem. But by means of it, it's got mobilization mechanisms, if they're going to be done with all legal guarantees. Ask me a Member of En Marea to a member of the People's Party if they will do with all the legal guarantees, man! [[Applause]] Participation of parliamentary groups in the Galician Forest Plan. I have a commitment that you will return to Parliament, to which you will return, not to fear that you will return to Parliament. Extensive pasture plan. But you, who lives close by, didn't you know about the 300 acres of the Qualedro? They are extended for local gain, not for large companies, for local gain, 300 hectares, through the Land Bank, rented — 285—. And tell us we don't have... I don't know how he said, blackout in the reports. Home!, I would ask you to respect the Socialist Party, which today asked me about the balance of the first quarter, and I'm going to talk to you about 585 fires in a quarter, which is a real barbarity and which shows what we've been moving for a long time: that, regardless of the difficulties in the mountain and we have to solve them among all, what there are people who set the fire on, and 78% of those fires — with data I'm going to give afterwards and with respect to PSOE I don't give them all now — were intent, without any doubt, 78% of 585. By the way, the public act in Pontevedra was not such a public act, Mr. Rodríguez, but it was a meeting that the councillor is having — and you know perfectly well — with all those who are part of the Galician Fire Extinction Service. And this gives me the opportunity to say, firstly -- no, because it's without the press -- that in the forest fire prevention and extinction devices, it's essential -- no doubt -- to the collaboration of a large human team that forms the first line of defense against fire. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I want here, from my position as advisor, to thank all that human team that since the first moment fights the fire, all of them. There's nobody left. [[Applause]] And by giving context to the situation and the interpellation, which talks about Seaga, I understand that this is a technical issue — and, in addition, at this afternoon, but I would like to put a little context in what we've all been talking about today. Then, if you want to, in reply, for anything else you want to talk about rural, taking advantage of this interpellation as well, I have no problem at all in that area. We know that in 2017 here there was a very important fire strike, in October 2017, which brought with it a reaction, and the reaction is being implemented. First of all, there were thirty measures implemented or determined by the President, thirty measures that you have already asked enough and moved them as they are being executed. I would highlight some of them, but, without any doubt, they all had quite a transcendence in support of this magnificent, exceptional service, which we have in Galicia for the prevention and extinction of fires. But we also did something else: a parliamentary committee of study; a committee that had an ambitious challenge, but we understood that it was essential to address the whole problem of fires in Galicia. And so we did. We have worked — you have been in that committee — with a result, in my opinion, exceptional. We have had many appearances, many reports and we have reached one hundred and thirty-three recommendations, which have been adopted — and this is important — by the three fourths of this Parliament. I hope to understand one day why it wasn't the four-quarters, I don't know if it's for the interests of another type, but of course not for the interest of putting an end to this problem of Galician fires. Look, one of the unequivocal conclusions that this commission brought with you — and I don't say it to this advisor, was everyone there and we all knew it too — is that the Fire Extinction Service, its configuration, has or requires a further study. And what was done was to convene a group of experts — I also transfer it to Parliament as a whole, we all know — in what has been designated experts by all parliamentary groups; that is, there are experts appointed by the People's Party, but also by the Galego Nationalist Block, by En Marea and by the Socialist Party of Galicia. I think we have to respect the work being done by that group of experts, I know they're doing an intense job. I want to take this opportunity to thank you for your work and we're waiting for your input. But I also asked him, when the expert group was also set up, that if there were any questions that could be implemented already this year, that they had moved in, that, although they had no final report, we could take it in, and I reminded him of it still in some of the sessions that have been held lately. But at the same time, we couldn't stay still. It's true that there's a group of experts working, but we had to make decisions. And look -- it's true, and this is a question we all agree on -- today's climate conditions are not the same as you did years ago. It's also true that it's probably expanding the maximum risk period, and we have to do a reaction, we can't wait to make such determinations to the expert group. What did we do? Of course, because these are issues that we're making and that we're implementing. I would remind him that public money is finite, not infinite; then the issues that can be addressed must be made according to the availability. Look, until 2018 we had twelve-month workers, nine-month workers, about 2,000 people, and then we had 436 workers in the Fire Extinction Service who worked three months a year. That's right. That's what we knew as the Public Service for the Prevention and Extinction of Galician Fires. And besides, we had a lot more people working on the problem of fires. We had, moreover, 592 people working in the Seaga public body; we also had some Tragsa squad; we have, of course, municipal brigades, who will have to tell us the group of experts also what their final configuration is -- it is not your opinion or the advisor, but it is an opinion of those people who are working -- we also, of course, have forces and security bodies of the state, who are working with our forest agents in the investigation; we have, of course, civil protection and we have firefighters when it is necessary to support the fires, especially when the situation is laid down 2; and we have -- and we have missed you, Mr. Rodríguez -- the UME; yes, the Army occasionally collaborates when it is necessary, and I also thank him very much for your presence in the fires. Returning to the workers of the Fire Extinction Service, a thousand, practically, in general terms, work one year; around eight hundred and ninety-nine hundred work nine months; and those who worked three months decided to extend their time to six months. And how do we do this? Progressively in three years. In 2018 they have worked for four months, in 2019 they will work for five months and in 2020 they will work for six months. Why don't you ask those 436 workers who thought last year we'd hire them 25% more time, Mr. Rodríguez? Why don't you ask them? Because they moved me who are delighted and understand that this is the line we have to follow. So what we say is that this year is scheduled to be hired for five months and next year it'll be six months. So, so that we all take into account, where workers of three months ago now double their working time in three years, because we understand that the problem of fires and the maximum risk period actually extended by climatic circumstances. But besides, and respecting the work — I repeat, I will repeat many times — of the expert group, we want to move forward towards a Fire Extinction Service — it does well what I will say — public, unique and versatile. Repeat: public, unique and versatile. See if there's anything wrong with him and he tells me in the line. What do we do then? We say — we will see — outside of situation 2 — that when situation 2 is decreed, the villages are in danger, usually those who are working in extinction are the Public Fire Extinction Service and the instrumental entities, Seaga and Tragsa. And we understand that, within the evolution that the Service was supposed to have towards a unique and versatile public service, what we were supposed to do is incorporate workers into that service. What do we do then? We're budgeting. Where an order was collected before — I understand that all this is tedious, I certainly suppose a certain difficulty in understanding it too, because it is administrative matters, but as an adviser I have to live them — we did it was remove the order that was made for the Extinction Service and take it to chapter I. All of you know that chapter I is used, if used to equip the staff of the Board. So what we're going to do is get out of the order of the instrumental entities and take chapter I of that staff. So we're increasing the Service and we're making it public and we're doing it, as you've also been asked among others, unique, because we understand that this is good for the Service. Data, and responding to his interpellation. The first thing I have to say is that last Friday -- and they consult with the unions, which I think you have a good relationship with almost all -- was introduced by the Rural Middle Council to the RPT with 548 new sites of the Public Fire Extinction Service, Mr. Rodríguez. That's the administrative process. I can't say that I create some squares without budgeting them and make the relationship of jobs. So the unions know it's budgeted and you've also seen it in the budget debate, and in addition, there's already the job relationship. The next question is, who will enter the Service with those 548 squares? The most qualified and experienced staff. So, of course, we will value that qualification and experience. But that's not what I'm saying here without documents. There's a draft, there's a decree, there's a draft decree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u282	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u283	...—if, finally, Mr President—which has already been submitted to the Staff Superior Commission, 1/2019 —I am sure you should know it through the unions, because it has already been presented—that it says in its Article 9a that it will be valued for the incorporation into the Service for each full month of services, indeed, provided in instrumental entities of the autonomic public sector in the same category, similar or assimilated categories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u284	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u285	...0.15 points, up to a maximum of 20 points. Therefore, Mr. Rodríguez, you have answered your plea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u286	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u287	And indeed, you will appreciate the experience of everyone who has experience in the extinction of fires. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u289	Thank you, President. Well, I think as a legal guarantee you can also assume little, eh! Besides, I think that with cases that are jumping all over the place at all times, you have to be a little ashamed to come here and talk about legal guarantees. [[Murmurs.]] Look, about the canvases that you do to the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires, I think it's time you stop playing with the comrades and comrades who work in the fire, and, if you want to thank them for their effort and professionalism, unite the Service once with decent working conditions and leave so much praise to the Public Service. Because in this media relationship that you've given us, you've missed the relationship of private companies working on the public bases of Junta. Did he forget or did he do something about it and hide that theme? I understand you're going to make it public again, too, right? As is the base of Marroxo, as is the base of Campiño, as is the base of Vilamior, the only three that are public; we have more than eleven bases now privatized with friendly companies. You talked about the group of experts: they're working everywhere, they're doing a very big job... and you have to say everything: they have the trap of their Counsellor. And I'm going to tell you now. Since the start of this group of experts, months after that group was formed, they're waiting for vital documentation that you don't hand them over. Rozas made by the Administration, data not provided by the Rural Media Council. Preventive forestry, data not provided by the Rural Environment Council. Data on forest police work carried out by forest agents in connection with the Fire Law, especially in nuclei protection tracks, data not provided by the Rural Environmental Council. Conventions in force with risk groups (husbands, pastoralists and extensive gain), data not provided by the Rural Environment Council. Compliance with the regulations related to the range of protection and management of biomass and compliance with the regulations by the holders of roads, highways, railways, electrical and telephone networks, data not provided by the Rural Media Council. Compliance with the regulations by the owners of nuclei located less than four hundred meters from the mountain and singular installations, data not provided by the Rural Media Council. Number of agreements with municipal entities for the management of biomass and its evolution over the last ten years, data not provided by the Rural Environment Council. Sanctioning activity of municipal and autonomous administrations and statistical typology, data not provided by the Rural Environment Council. Prevention activities carried out by the Forest Administration, territorial distribution and evolution in the last ten years, divergent and educational measures, number, typology, territorial distribution of the number of actions of awareness, dissemination, preventive training with the population in the last ten years, as well as total percentages of total population, data not provided by the Rural Environment Council. Prevention plans, number of existing municipal and district prevention plans and their distribution, year of their current development and application, data not provided by the Rural Environment Council. Look, last April 2nd, there was a fire in the Town Hall of Verín, in the parish of Vilamior, in the village of Vilamior. I'm going to tell you chronologically how this fire was, especially as it hits the lack of means and, above all, as it hits the lack of motorcycles in this district. The data you can ask the district chief, the 14th district chief. The fire began at 15.39 in the vicinity of Vilamior's helicopter base, detected him by a joint squad that was on its way to his meeting point. At the moment of planting he's already started shooting at a lot of speed and a lot of virulence. The helicopter's brigade came out on the ground all over the ground and the helicopter went out with the helibald. The brigade that detected him moved to the fire, as well as the only motorcycle available in the region of Verín — in the region, not in the district — at that time, and five forest agents. The brigade was also requested in Gudinña and the second available motorcycle in the district of Gudinña. He came to the fire at 16.25, which is forty-four minutes after the fire started, and leaving the whole district without a motorcycle, at the time of maximum risk—you were ordered on April 1st. Motorcycles from other districts were requested; from the 15th district, it arrived at 16.50, an hour and twenty afterwards; from the 12th district, Ourense, it arrived at 18.25. Most of the fire went out with air and batteries, because there were no motorcycles, and yet it was achieved, in very adverse weather conditions, which only burned sixty-five hectares. The theme of motorcycles in the Verín district, by setting an example, is: right now there are two low-duty drivers -- one low-duty -- and another long-duration; these three squares are not covered; and so all the time. The other day Mr. Blanco Paradelo spoke here about a number of media that were acting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u291	...in the fire of Dodro and Rianxo. Actually, there were joint brigades that were working. In consultation with the brigades, 62% of the staff were working in those brigades, 38%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u293	...that they had to be working at the time they were resting, they were on the ground...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u295	...they were on vacation and the staff were not covered. And that's the public service you're defending. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u296	Thank you very much. Mr González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mr. Rodríguez, I'd first of all appreciate it if you didn't customize directly into me. I appreciate it, because you have the very fine skin and if we say something, it's great, and then I'd appreciate it if we didn't customize, but if we have to play customizing, look, do you realize with your speech -- you're part of that service -- how you're putting it? I can get official data. You tell me about forty-five minutes, and I say again, about the PSOE spokesperson -- and, by the way, I'll leave the official information to the president so he can share it with parliamentary groups -- I can't give all the balance sheet data, which I could now tell them. Do you want to know the average time of the reaction of an exceptional Fire Extinction Service we have in Galicia in the first quarter of the year 2019? Twenty-one minutes, twenty-one. I mean, in any of the 585 fires that occurred in the first quarter in Galicia, we've been here, since we were warned, in twenty-one minutes on average. Is that an awful service that's dismantled and doesn't work? Is that your vision, Mr. Rodríguez? Go ask outside of Galicia whether the response time of twenty-one minutes is good or bad. By the way, last year was much better yet, and we're talking about an era when we haven't done the full service yet, with which, down. Our goal — and you know why you read the Pladiga — is to come down from twenty minutes. We arrive anywhere in Galicia with air or land in less than 20 minutes. And I'm not pretending to be a People's Party, you know how I assume? [[Applause]] Fuck! I'm sure that's 20 minutes. Do you know what I'm assuming, Mr. Rodríguez? As a Greek, because I feel proud as a Greek of that service. I'm not talking about parties. In addition, I think this should be a question that we should address one day and start thinking that it is a matter that affects all of us. He was also talking about the media of Rianxo, Mr. Rodríguez. The data Mr. Blanco Paradelo gave him the other day I'll reforest them: 615 troops. But look at one thing, you were there and your spokesperson was there too. Where have you been? In a thing called WFP, advanced command post. Did they have an opportunity to see how it works and how it was coordinated? What was your reflection at that time? What was it? Great coordination! And now they come here because we have to make the suggestion that this is a disaster. Home!, Mr. Rodríguez, I've been talking to you for half an hour, we've been seeing the fire, we were close to the lamps, we were seeing how it worked. Why don't you say that's an exceptional job, that we're all proud of our service? I'm told I'll do my ball for the service. Look, first, service is a lot more people than you alone and your entire parliamentary group. It's almost 3,000 people who also talk on social media. And you know what they say? That they like this counselor to talk about them and put them in value. I'm not making them the ball, they have no need! I'm defending my workers, Mr. Rodríguez, I'm defending him. [[Applause]] Man, let's go! Don't you see? We're already with the fine skin, my workers. But it turns out — and I declare it — that, as I want to do a public service, unique and versatile, that service depends on the Ministry of the Rural Environment of which I am counsellor. Therefore, allow me the license to say they're my workers, for fuck's sake! Allow me the license, Mr. Rodríguez. [[Applause]] I'm sure they don't feel angry because I say they're the workers of my office. And all I'm saying is that I'm tremendously proud of the firefighting service. I had it before, and now that I know the data, that I ask you and I can put them on the table, I'm exceptionally satisfied with your work. And I can make sure that everything I can defend that service, and get it out of the way, I'll do it, without any doubt. The best example is that by answering their questioning about the people of Seaga, which I think we've come to talk about here... by the way, they have a concern and it's important that you talk to them. I have to tell you clearly the following. First. The brigades working through management orders, with instrumental entities, this year are not in the budget. Chapter VI. In chapter I, there are 6 million euros endowed for self-employed, self-employed. So this year, in addition to the 436 that had so far in four months and this year in five months, another 548 will be hired. And I also have to tell you that the decree that regulates the opening of lists — which is in draft phase and I hope that it will be approved as soon as possible — clearly collects the score so that in that public service, unique and versatile that we want, among the people who have the greatest possible experience and qualification in the fight against fires. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u298	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block on the Greek Government's Policy on Improvement of Primary Care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u299	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u300	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. I'm the first one I want to ask you today is what happened. I want to ask you what happened so that you might say and say again that there was no problem in Galician public health, that there was absolutely no problem in primary care, to have to rectify and accept a framework for dialogue to solve the problems of primary care. I'd like you to tell me if you fell off the horse on the road to Damascus or rather it's fear of the electoral repercussions of your public health situation. I warned you, in the previous interpellation that I made to you, that it was good for you to correct in time before you had to do it through the facts, as they would have to, and it would be good that you didn't expect so much. After denying for nine years that there was no problem, after nine years cutting in the staff paintings, nine years degrading public health, the truth is that it is very sad that you have to call a strike in primary care, the first strike that had been convened for the whole of primary care — for optional, for nursing, for TCAE, for administrative staff, for captors — to realize that it was necessary to dialogue, negotiate, issues that had to be done, of course, there was time. Really, I'm telling you absolutely true, I hope that good faith that workers and workers have shown by calling off the strike doesn't spoil it. I'm telling you the truth. I hope you can take that glove, that glove, in good faith and not spoil that will and that trust that they gave you, because, of course, you suppose it's clear that it's not a blank check. That's why I'm here today, after asking what happened, I want to ask you what your real commitment to this agreement is. As far as it goes, as far as it goes, to improve the whole situation of primary care. Because neither you nor Sergas' manager had the right to attend the negotiating meeting of that first strike called in primary care, left them exclusively in the hands of the Director General of Human Resources. And I have to tell you that, to the surprise of most of these professionals who in good faith have signed the convocatement to start talking, although they have not collected the signing papers of the agreement — I said yesterday, in this Parliament, with the still fresh ink to sign the agreement, and we have already seen the President of the Board uncheck the manager of Sergas, uncheck the health voice of the People's Party Parliamentary Group... you're left to know what your position is. The deal was signed the last hour of Monday morning, and yesterday the president of the board, after recognizing that they were wrong in the planning of doctors and others, that is, all we've been saying for years that we had to do and they didn't want to do it, now they recognize a mistake but they say that there's no commitment to increase budgets, when you know perfectly that one of the fundamental issues of what was called strike was because they needed it and because they are demanded by professionals more resources for primary care. To arrive within four years — put it on its claim table — up to 25%, and we find that yesterday the President of the Union says that there is no commitment in the agreement to increase budget. In front of another of the fundamental demands for this call for strike, which is the need, the demand, for primary care agencies to be recovered with a resolvative capacity, of execution, of budget, that is, a fully differentiated administrative structure, individualized, autonomous from the hospital administrations, and even the elimination of the EOXI, we find ourselves with the manager of Sergas saying that the need to dump is to improve coordination and in the systems that can make patients not notice the difference, but does not consider differentiation to be something important. And then you've boarded the People's Party's Sanitary Voice, here in this Parliament, calling you all the collectives, all the professionals who have called the strike, in a contempt, of course, and in a disqualification, giving a clear picture of what the level is and what is the consideration for those professionals, who, I insist, acted in good faith, giving you a vote of confidence. So, I insist, President of the Union, manager of Sergas, health spokesman of the People's Party Parliamentary Group, we sincerely look forward to knowing the level of linkage of the highest responsibility for health, of the councillor. Because in addition to all of this I have just said, yesterday the BNG and the other two opposition groups have taken initiatives to this Parliament in the direction of the change in course that is being demanded of budgetary allocation, of the size and stability of staff frameworks, of stable and dignified contracts, of an improvement plan for primary care with a budgetary increase towards that 25% horizon, of recovery of primary care agencies, of meeting the demands of the staff of the CAP, and the People's Party has voted that not at all! With which, the truth is, we're a little in the uncertainty of how much it is for the People's Party and for the Health Council an agreement signed with a strike committee that represented thousands of workers working in Sergas. That's why, Counselor, I urge you to tell us if you are bound to that agreement. I would like to remind you that this strike was called for budgeting, saying that the budget does not serve to meet the needs of a quality service, and on that 25 per cent horizon, on which they demanded capacity and planning, that is, that recovery of primary care agencies in order to be able to plan and manage budgets from that autonomy. More personal, a fundamental question. Because the time factor is what they need most, time to dedicate it to the patients, so they need more professionals, so they don't have to have a brutal care overload, end the precariousness of work and solve the problems of the CAP. I mean, they want more time, more staff for all categories and end with precariousness. So, summarizing. From the days after that agreement has been signed, you are here, at parliamentary headquarters, where it is forbidden to lie — I suppose it's a bit ugly — where we have an obligation not to fall into that temptation, and that's why the BNG, like thousands of workers, want to know what the level of compliance is, how fast, what budget, in which budget the Council is working to meet these proposals. Because it's obvious that without resources it's not possible to meet all the demands that are being made to them. I hope you don't play escapism the way you usually do. To that sneeze to come here, with your data sheet of so many queries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u301	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u302	...because we're talking serious things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u303	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u304	We're talking about commitments, we're talking -- I insist -- about thousands of people who have trusted that you, for once, are equally capable of fulfilling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u305	Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u306	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Without boldness, Mrs. Prado, for referring to the last one you spoke. If we lie or don't lie, if we do or don't do, I think that's referred to every four years, and it seems that the People's Party must do quite well in Galicia, so they always vote for it. [[Applause]] On 12 March I came to this Parliament to report on the proposals designed to meet the current needs of primary care and how we have developed the participatory process of drawing up these proposals. In this comparison, I first did an analysis of the situation, providing data, because in order to be able to advance in the design of this model it is essential to know the reality well and to count on the appropriate information. What are the causes of the situation in primary care? Now, look, there's no doubt that we have excellent, accessible, and resolute primary care, equipped with competent professionals, obviously not exempt from difficulties, and of course — as the Rural Medium Counsellor said — we also feel proud of the professionals who work throughout the year to maintain this level of quality. The difficulties come from tensions mainly derived to me from two causes: one, the absence of primary care replacement personnel, particularly family doctors and pediatricians; and the second, a sociodemographic shift towards the chronicity and pluripathology of the Greek citizenship. Since the Galician Health Service, important improvement measures have been taken for years. I do not agree — as you said — that we denied that there were difficulties and that we did not take action. We've been taking measures for years, different from other autonomous communities and the ministry. Annual OPE, extension of retirement age, open and permanent competition, professional career, continuity contract, creation of nursing specialties, and all of this with agreements at the level of professionals and also at the union level. But after all these measures — as I say — are very important, the last creation of the continuity contract, we have to go further, so in December we started a process, the most participatory and transparent in primary care, which has no background in our community, but not in any other community, because the measures to be taken inevitably go through the participation of all, public administrations, professionals and citizens, because we are all responsible for maintaining what has taken us so long. Dialogue and shared decisions are imposed. That is why we created the improvement groups, with the collaboration of all the professional categories of primary care — this great team we have in primary care — to develop proposals for the new primary care model that was presented to professionals on February 20. In months and a half we had practically the first draft; a draft already with a lot of measurements and six strategic lines. Therefore, Madam, we have spent time working on improvement measures that allow the primary care model to evolve and respond to the needs of our citizens, measures that even other autonomous communities want to copy. Primary care is not in a state of emergency, data and figures thus testify. In 2018 26.6 million primary care consultations were requested in Galicia. Of these, 14 million correspond to family doctors; 1.7 million to pediatrics; 9 million to nursing; and the rest by midwives, dentistry, oral hygiene, pharmacy and social work. As I said before, a large multidisciplinary team. Galicia is Spain's sixth autonomous community with fewer cards per family doctor. In 2008 the average was 1,347, and in 2017 — because they are the latest data from the ministry — 1,275, below the average of the National Health System. Also in Nursing, we're under average, right now 1,487, when in the National Health System it's in 1,547. By the way, today, within the document that wants to approve the ministry as a decree more than on social Fridays, it appears that they want to come down under 1,500 in 2022. I believe that this long-term goal is significant that we have been overcoming in Galicia for some time now. In recent years we have made an important effort in budgetary allocation with regard to human resources. I would like to point out that we currently have the highest budget for staff in primary care. In 2008, for example, Chapter I of primary care was 415 million euros, and in 2019, in this budget already approved, it is 462 million, 47 more than in 2008. When you talk about the primary care budget, you're including the chapter on pharmacy and recipes, which has actually shown a very important cumulative decline since 2009, thanks to the rationalization and management measures of this Government that you have not supported. And in the last two years he's been going up again. In addition, the Bipartite also counted as a budget for primary care the contingency fund, which is now out of the primary care and hospital care budgets, is a separate fund. Galicia has 469 health centres and 90 continuing care points — PAC —. In the period from 2009 to 2018 we put into operation 36 new health centres, with an investment of 60 million euros; we reformed or expanded 13 health centers, with an investment of 6.8 million; and, as I say, we reformed through agreements with the municipalities a total of 20 health centers, with an investment of 1 million. We currently have 9 health centres running, 1 in tendering phase, 5 in bidding preparation and 9 in pre-drafting phase. And how is the quality perceived by the citizen? Well, of course, it's a high grade. The health barometer values primary care in Galicia with 7.47 points over 10, when in the National Health System it is 7.31, and especially the confidence and safety that the medical staff transmits, 7.70. The data from this barometer also reflect that Galician population points to 7.6 of the care and care received by primary care doctors. We can point out that people who came to a primary health care center show at 88.10% a very positive, good or very good assessment. 67% of patients were treated on the same or the following day, and only 47% in the National Health System. In Galicia waiting is 2.6 days to be attended, while in Spain it is more than 4. Therefore, the organizational model of primary care is a model of success, having experienced spectacular improvements in both diagnostic capacity and resolution capacity. We can't forget that life expectancy in Galicia is the highest in the world. As we have already said, Galicia, to continue in the vanguard, takes a step forward and we take steps to evolve in this model. As in the construction of the National Health System, the measures to be taken are undoubtedly passed — as I said — by the participation of all. The proposals for improvement set out different lines of action in primary care. The board will make an important effort to increase human resources, in addition to what we have already done. The increase in squares must contribute to professionals having more time to dedicate to patients, but this was not the only measure envisaged, there are other outstanding ones, such as the reordination of work within primary care teams, the new roles. The teams are composed of different categories, and the work must be assumed according to the competences and according to each of them, the header equipment. These initiatives are aimed at creating a teamwork philosophy that allows the redistribution of care activities. We are against denying citizen assistance, and yes for total accessibility, because it must be one of the pillars of primary care. In addition, population information campaigns in the use of health resources and community intervention will strengthen the patient's profile and improve the use of health resources. Also new technologies, health platform, Connecta 72, telephone consultation, all added to the excellent quality of our professionals. We must also improve the relationship between primary and hospital care, a two-way relationship that will make the needs of tests or consultations with specialists processed as soon as possible. Patient-centred care needs a highly coordinated job among professionals. These are the general lines of the primary care plan, consisting of measures of improvement proposed by professionals working day by day in health centers. A plan that shows the involvement and commitment of the Government of Galicia in improving primary care as soon as possible. A plan with concrete proposals in the short, medium and long term, with its indicators in order to monitor and evaluate the results.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u307	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u308	A proposal that counts with the support of the groups that participated in the working groups, complemented by the agreement with the Galego Council of Medical Colleges and Scientific Primary Care Societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u309	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u310	Well, Mr. Almuña, I suppose you'll do the usual, on the second turn the same as say something, just like say something, right? From what you've answered, it's obvious that you have to wait to see whether or not you're doing the following elections, with which I, frankly... I asked you a very specific question, I'm going to ask you again, and I hope you can answer it, and that's what the level of linkage of the health adviser, at the most responsible for Galician public health, with the agreement, whenever it wasn't right to negotiate directly with the strikers, to what extent it binds to that agreement. And you also agree with the President of the Board that there will be no increase in budget, with Sergas' manager, as it is not necessary to recover primary care agencies with a resolvative, organizational, and budgetary capacity, and even with the spokesperson of the People's Party, qualifying the whole group of workers, that you suck at defending, but that soon their representatives — who are their representatives — here are qualified to tend. So, I'd like you to answer if you're bound and agree. I am, along with you, the highest representatives in the matter of health. So, if you don't answer, the conclusion I have to come up with is that you agree, that you agree with what they said and that they therefore leave that agreement wetted on paper. So the second question that you said is that the organizational model of Primary Care is a model of success, when you're saying no, when you're saying no, when you're saying that what you need to do is to introduce silent changes in order to fix the profound damage caused by the measures of the People's Party. There's $2,000 million less, not everything in the pharmacy, Counselor, you know not. You know that in primary care, they've been more than a thousand professionals since 2009. You know it perfectly well. The other day the manager of Sergas has already said how you compute that data: you compete for contracts, not for real staff. Because if they had the decency that there was clarity in which the real professionals were, we wouldn't have to be with this continuous denial of their data. Left-handed infrastructure, workers and workers less, less budget, and all this results in the situation of primary care. Then, you said they were going to do things like new roles of professionals, redistribution -- that is, they want professionals to do jobs that don't fit them and they have to do other professionals who are overburdened because there are few professionals. Information campaigns and more technology. Everyone who's already told him that that's not the problem, that the problem is fundamentally more budgeting, more professional, and the ability to make decisions so as not to be subject to hospital care strategies. You're being told by active, passive and middle- pensionist that these are the problems, and you insist here that the model is successful, so you'll have to take good note. And a successful public health with headlines like this: that Galicia is the territory of the state where the departure for concerts with private health increases most. It's true, said by private health itself. Where in the next fifteen years they have to face the retirement of 80% of the family doctors, or issues like mental health has half of the resources that 20 years ago. That's the model of success, not already on the subject of staff precariousness, which they still denounce as people hanging on a telephone 24 hours a day, those kinds of questions. And look, Counselor, the solution doesn't go through appearanceal measures, patches, or apparently what they do, but actually meets the demands they're making. Real measures to solve that deep damage. I really hope that you will be able to say today — now, here — whether you are really going to do something or if you have just signed this agreement as a measure of delay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u311	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u312	...to try to demobilize, and they won't accomplish anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u313	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u314	I want you to tell me what I said before: in that budget, specifically, they're working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u315	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u316	...and how all those personnel will implement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u317	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u318	I mean, the real questions that go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u319	Your time is up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u320	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It seems, Mrs. Prado, that today she's not very happy at the exhibition, she's not today. I don't think so. Look, there's one thing they always say: that we don't get into agreements, that we never get into agreements with anyone. It turns out that the document is already approved by 19 associations of family physicians: Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine, Spanish Society of Primary Care Physicians, Spanish Society of General and Family Physicians, Galego Council of Medical Colleges, Galaga Association of Family and Community Nursing, Official College of Physiotherapists Nursing, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra Association of Nursing, Galician Social Work Group, Galego Health Work Group, Galician Society of Physiotherapists, Official College of Physiotherapists, Working Group of Physiotherapists, Spanish Association of Social Work and Health, Official College of Social Work of Galician, Working Group of Social Work, Spanish Society of Primary Care Pharmaceuticals, Primary Care Working Group of Pharmaceuticals, Primary Care and Working Group of Galician Services. He's got a big backup. [[Applause]] And besides -- and I know it's exactly why you have a day today when you're not too happy -- you've also reached an agreement with all the unions to keep working. There are no winners or losers, here is an agreement to keep working, to keep improving our magnificent health model. And all commitments with all these societies, with these schools, with these unions, logically are a total and absolute commitment. In addition, when you talk about investment, that you have to have money behind you... of course it will carry a clear budget memory, with squares, with needs plan — which, by the way, is already public, we already speak of it, is 17.3 million in two years— there will be a wide remodeling and increase of material, of electromedical equipment, furniture, computer and all that is necessary for our health centers. So there's a commitment from the Galician Union, of course, to reach agreements. It's a wide-ranging dialogue process. I know we've been highly criticized, I know that someone didn't like us getting to agreements, but they're there. And I have to thank you for the wonderful work that is being done by all those who signed this agreement on Monday for the effort to reach agreements; you have to yield on the one hand and on the other. And we're going to continue working on that approach because I think all we signed this agreement are on the same argumental line. We have, however, things that we still lack and which are not dependent on the Council of Galicia nor are they dependent on schools, associations, trade union representatives, but on the ministry. Right now, the ministry isn't taking forward the commitments that are your responsibility, and that's going to be a problem. And that's why the accreditations we've been asking for for for a long time now aren't coming. Today they tell us that they're going to open the app to increase the request for new accreditations within a few days, when we've been talking about it for months and months. We also want a real decree — we have said so many months ago in the ministry — on the special employment relationship of the residence for the training of specialists in Health Sciences, and on the promotion of the establishment of a homogenous criterion to catalogue these squares and give coverage to deficit specialties; or to push a rule that facilitates and facilitates the accreditation process; or to speed up the accreditation of pending teaching units; or to provide the necessary means to reduce the current deadlines for processing and resolution of certificates approval records; or to set up the full register of professionals; or to eliminate the repositioning rate to increase the capacity of our OPEs; or also to put in place the extraordinary way of accreditation of the nursing staff specialized in Family and Community Nursing, those workers who have spent many years in primary care and who, of course, have experience and training to have this qualification as well; and it recognizess as social workers. As I say, all of this is a time-consuming job, which needs agreements, and we're going to keep working on that agreement. The continuity contract — which has been highly criticized by all of you — is a reality, and even now the ministry is saying that we must put it into action at the level of all Spain. We want a new model, which will have 7 strategic lines, 200 shares — 40% in the short term —, a reinforced header team, with community orientation...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u321	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u322	...with new professional roles, full accessibility of patients, maintaining the excellent training we have, and a bidirectional relationship in primary and hospital. We will continue to work — as I say — to regain the illusion of professionals and maintain the quality of services to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u323	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, questions to the Government. Question by Mr Gonzalo Trenor López and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the measures of the Galician Union to ensure water supply
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u324	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u325	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counselor, thank you for coming today to answer this question. Today we're going to talk about prevention plans, special plans against drought. Even though in recent days it has rained enough and today we wake up with the applause of Eiras and Zamans full of 100 percent, the truth is that this is a problem, a question, of the greatest interest to this parliamentary group. We know it's a matter of utmost interest to the Greek Government and that you've been working with different plans, different projects and different performances in view of the prevention of these drought problems, which are increasingly common in Galicia. We believe that this is an important and necessary issue, but it is an important issue for all administrations, it is a problem that affects society as a whole. It's not a problem of PP or PSOE, of the Bloc, or of En Marea, it's of society as a whole, and I think the Greek Government has as much responsibility on this subject as other administrations, closer to and beyond other political colors, such as Members or Town Councils themselves. We all need to work in coordination when there's some warning of a drought threat. We know that since June, as I said, a number of actions have been carried out that have benefited various municipalities. We have talked about different plans, we have talked about cooperation on some occasions — not at all, unfortunately — but we have also done a bit on this subject in the last debate on the state of Autonomy, and we have spoken exactly — here is the text we have proposed — from this parliamentary group that "it has made a resolution urging the Union to develop and agree with the local authorities and the General Administration of the State a strategy to ensure supply to the population in drought situations, paying particular attention to those areas that may present greater vulnerability, as may be the case of the populations that supply the support of Zamáns and Eras." These are landmarks in the southern part of Galicia, which have been in serious situations, with serious threats in recent times, which have also had media repercussions, and we all know that there were administrations that looked elsewhere. They appear today, perhaps with magic formulas, but when they have to work everywhere, when we talk about prevention, even if there's no problem, it's when they don't see them or expect them. We wanted to know from this parliamentary group, Madam Counsellor, what measures you are pushing the Galician Union to ensure the supply of water to the population in the face of possible drought episodes, especially in those areas where supply systems are more vulnerable. How they're working. What have you done and what have you planned to do about the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u326	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u327	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, the management of water and hydraulic resources is a matter of priority for the German Government. And it must be a matter of priority because, without water, there is no life, and it's more priority in a climate change context than we're seeing. The truth is, he's changed the precipitation regime in Galicia. Now we have longer drought periods, more intense rain periods and more courses. We must therefore be prepared to face these challenges that we face as a result of climate change. We must therefore plan; we must therefore anticipate all the actions necessary to meet these challenges, achieve efficient management of hydraulic resources and, of course, avoid those risks that we may encounter, such as the lack of quality and quantity of water at certain times of the year. That's how we understand planning and anticipation in the Galician Union. We collaborate with the municipalities, which are directly responsible for the supply system by the law of local regime bases. We have been providing support since 2009. It was more than 300 supply actions, which benefited 186 municipalities, to advance the guarantee of the supply of water to the population. But we also need all administrations to have tools for planning and managing our water resources. The hydrological plan of the Galicia-Costa demarcation, which has Galician waters, defines the concrete actions for the good state of the water masses. The Dry Plan, to minimize the adverse effects of this situation. At the meetings that we had in Brussels we put this question on the table, we call for priority in the next operational period of the European funds and for the financing of concrete supply actions to combat the effects of climate change. At Junta de Galicia we count on the processing of a law on security of supply measures to speed up responses to drought episodes. We have to give an axile and effective response in drought episodes. Sorting and delimiting is what this law seeks, and coordination between all administrations; giving axile, accurate and coordinated response to drought risk episodes. It is a law that we want to adopt this year, which we want to bring to Parliament this year, and which basically affects, for example, two important issues: that the municipalities have the drought emergency plan, and that Members provide this essential support and thanks to the municipalities, especially the smaller ones. They're already bound by state basic law. The state hydrological plan obliges the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants to have an emergency plan for drought. And we work towards the future. As I said, during last Monday's visit to Brussels we asked the European Commission to prioritize these actions in sustainable infrastructure during the next operational period of the European Fund to avoid network losses and to ensure water supply to the population. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u328	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u329	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. You remembered here, in your intervention, that the municipalities of over 20,000 inhabitants are obliged by law to have an emergency plan in front of the drought. I will speak today of Galicia's largest council in number of inhabitants, which is Vigo's council, and also with a management of this very irresponsible and very disloyal subject by the mayor himself of Vigo's city. As I said before -- they refer, without naming, to some municipalities that have no interest in this subject -- I think not only in water supply, but also in water quality, they looked elsewhere. [[Murmurs.]] So we want to talk about this today because we think it's very important. We've just seen a chapter more than Vigo seems to be attacking the Union. That is, whenever Junta wants to collaborate with the vigues, the mayor of Vigo, who is not Vigo, says that Junta is attacking and wants to do everything possible not to collaborate. That's the modus operandi of that mayor, who has us used to, as he did also with the metropolitan transport agreement; an agreement with which he drowned, with which he accused Junta, with which he threatened not to sign, with which he did not agree with him... then he signed it, now he doesn't. [[Murmurs.]] I think you're doing the same with the water-related agreement, but it's a very serious problem, not only for the city of Vigo — which is also very important — but for the whole metropolitan area, because it affects, I insist, two cours that supply water to a very high population nucleus. And today it comes out with a magic formula -- I insist -- and it doesn't explain how. When the People's Party was in the State Government, it didn't bring any closer to the Government to solve this problem. Now that the Socialist Party is doing away with an agreement with the Ministry of Ecological Transition but without budgetary departure, therefore, wet paper. Counsellor, we want to know what you are doing, how you want to help the citizens of southern Galicia in the matter of water supply, even if it is always with the obstacles that the mayor of Vigo is putting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Infrastructure and Mobility Counsellor, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u331	Thank you. Well, as I said, Your Honor, the municipalities must have drought emergency plans. We have to work together all the administrations, of course also the deputies, because it is important to optimize water management and also optimize the network, avoid network losses. These are essential actions to strengthen the guarantee of water to the population, and the fact is that we have seen in recent years, especially in 2017, as large urban agglomerations — Vigo and La Coruña — have serious problems in securing supply. Although it rained these days, we don't forget what happened in 2017 and we wonder what La Coruña did and what made Vigo for since 2017 to be able to guarantee this year 2019 the supply of water to the population. The truth is, it's the municipalities that have the direct responsibility to ensure water supply. We've been offering our collaboration since Galician Union. In the specific case of the Vigo Council, a meeting in October last year with the Hydrographic Confederation, with the Council of Galicia, with the Council, to jointly study the structural definitive solution of total supply guarantee to the south of Vigo. And we proposed a partnership agreement last October, and what we saw was in the last few months that the Ministry's agreement to be able to sign it, which made us adopt this agreement at the Council of the Union and, therefore, set us a date and time to sign that convention as soon as possible, to ensure a structural solution to the supply of Vigo. But the truth is we've seen again why it's used from the Vigo Town Hall and the mayor himself as a weapon throws the water problem. Because the Vigo Town Hall has no budget share. So you have zero euros for the most important agreement to guarantee a structural solution to Vigo and south of Vigo. We're fine! therefore, because the truth is that Vigo's problem is not of light, Vigo's problem is of water quality. And I'm saying water quality because it's a responsibility that since 2011, when you know the ETAP's own Vigo Town Hall of Water Potabilizer problem, you haven't done anything and it's been almost nine years, ignoring the problem of the potabilizer. It's because we saw it in 2017: 38% of Eiras's coronation -- almost 40% -- the coroner had water and ETAP couldn't offer water quality and quantity. So it doesn't matter very much to the mayor of Vigo about the water problem. It is twenty-seven million euros that almost raise the concessionaire every year; therefore, since 2011, two hundred million euros raised at supply rate in the Vigo Town Hall; many ETAPs would have done with these millions of euros. And, therefore, in the European Commission we call for European funds for the next operating period, to open the door to supply to Vigo, with forecast and responsibility, and not with shows and shows, because this does not solve the water problem. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u332	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia in relation to the works in educational centers of the public network of Galicia for this budgetary exercise
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u333	To put the question, Mr. Gómez Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u334	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We're going to talk about one of the Council's lines of action, which is to carry out permanent work on packaging, reform and improvement of Galician educational centres. In this way, we understand that it is possible to have a network of renovated, modernized and adapted centers adapted to the needs of the 21st century Greek education system. In this dynamic, the Government of Greece makes an important economic effort in each year to carry out various actions on the network of centres, establishing priorities and efficiently managing public resources so as to act in accordance with existing needs at every moment. But, beyond planning and future results, we can also talk about concrete realities, because in the first three years of the plan - we speak of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 - we have already executed over ninety-three million euros in new work, improvements in expansion of centres or actions aimed at improving energy efficiency; also, reforms, enlargements and improvements, especially the coverage of the centres and conditioning works, as well as actions of functional improvement, integration and significance. Proof of this is that right now, early in April, the Education Council has already eight works running. And let me tell you, Counselor, that it could be some other work. You know, if we were to count on the Coruña and Lugo with the appropriate municipal licenses, we could have these two centres running right now. We hope that these two municipalities will make available and exempt licences as soon as possible for the benefit of the educational community and, ultimately, for the entire population of these municipalities. For all this, Counsellor, we would like to know about the forecasts that the Government of Greece has of works in education centers of the Greek public network for the budgetary exercise. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u336	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gómez, in fact, the Education, University and Vocational Training Council is committed to improving the quality standards of facilities and educational infrastructure. We are aware of its impact on the education process. The context mode, it is relevant to remember that in the area of education infrastructures in Galicia there was an emergency plan, over the 1970s, carried out from Madrid, of which many are heirs of the centres that exist today in our community, the Plan of Work of 1996 for the adaptation of Galicia to the new law, to LOXSE, and the Plan for the staffing of educational infrastructures 2016-2020, which, according to the Council of the Board of Directors this year, broadened its vigil until 2021. With regard to this plan, I would like to recall that one more year's expansion in its vigil also meant that the Council now manages an budget of about EUR 200 million for works at educational centres in six years, compared to the one hundred and eighteen million originally planned. But, beyond planning and future results, we can also talk about concrete realities, because, as you said, the first three years of vigil of this plan have already been carried out EUR 93.8 million in new work; enlargements and improvements in centers; works to improve energy efficiency; reforms, expansions and improvements (called RAM), mainly the coverage of the centres and conditioning works; and performances of functional improvement, integration and signage. But we're still working, and this year 2019 we want to bid, adjudicate and run a total of thirty performances, which will involve an investment of 33.7 million euros. Our commitment is real, and it's beginning to visualize itself. The proof is that we already have eight works running, worth about eleven million euros, to which we must add twelve other works in tender, for 8.5 million euros. We're talking about that in early April we've already committed 60% of the budget planned for this year 2019. And, by quoting some outstanding examples, we are running works in the Town Councils of Coruña, Santiago, Ourense and the Barco de Valdeorras, among others. By the way, as he also collected his question, Your Honor, we could have the work going on at the Sacred Heart of Place CEIP, but we're still waiting for the municipal license; and we're also waiting for the license for the performance at the Eusebius of the Guard, of the Coruña, not to be delayed. I'm done. Two-thirds of the program's actions approved in January are already under way and the other works are in the process of drafting projects, including, as you know, the Innovation Centre of the FP of Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u337	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, Mr. Gómez Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u338	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. We have to make an acknowledgement to the efforts of the Education Council for this work it is developing and, no doubt, congratulate it on giving the educational centres this renewal and modernisation that is being carried out on the centres, ultimately looking for educational excellence, which is a matter that concerns us and is of particular concern to its Council; parameters that are favouring the conditions of the physical spaces in which training is provided and that no one will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the improvement of the academic results of students and students in the Italian public education system. You spoke in your response of certainly important aspects of investments that are being made, but, having enough of the impact of this plan, I would also like to ask you about the objectives pursued by the Education Council with the implementation of the 2016-2021 Educational Infrastructure Supply Plan, if you have quantified the total number of municipalities affected by the plan and, finally, the number of centres you will have worked on and what will be the number of students who will have benefited at the end of the program. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the replication shift, you have the floor of the councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training, Mrs. Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u340	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the 2016-2021 Educational Infrastructures Scheme will lead to the renewal of the oldest education centres in the Welsh Education System, in addition to a clear environmental commitment, through energy rehabilitation actions. Thus, when this plan is fully completed, performances will have been carried out in one hundred and sixteen Greek educational centres, of which thirty-three thousand pupils and students from seventy-two municipalities in Galicia will benefit. The truth is, we're making a big effort to invest in education centers in Galicia, and we want to do more. At this point we believe that it is important for the teaching of Greek that the central government does not continue to despise Galicia. We need our community to receive the millions that correspond to it for surpluses and there is no further delay. We have important investments in education that may be severely damaged by the central government's attitude. No one can escape from the fact that the great works cannot be done in the academic period, so it is essential that the return of the money corresponding to our Community, which corresponds to Galicia, should be speeded up. In total, at the Education Council we have programmed EUR 40.6 million in forty-four comprehensive rehabilitation actions for 2019 and 2020, prioritized by the technical units depending on the year of construction of the centre and the state of the facilities. Thus, twelve performances were selected in the province of Coruña, another twelve in Pontevedra, another ten in Lugo and ten in the province of Ourense. At the moment we have around twenty projects — twenty-two in particular — drafted and supervised, which are pending exclusively for the Ministry of Business to authorize the use of the budgetary surplus resulting from financial discipline, completed in the financial year 2018 by the Community of Galicia. In view of the fact that the tendering of works is longer than three months, each day of delay in authorising the use of surplus obviously poses a possible risk of starting classes in September with works in these centres. We're talking about the possibility of further improving facilities and educational infrastructure, aware of its impact on the education process. I believe that everyone, from their competences, since their commitment to quality teaching, must be responsible and think of the interests of most Greeks and Greeks. We hope other administrations don't put unnecessary locks on them, because we don't deserve them, we don't deserve them, we don't deserve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u341	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the situation of health care in the region of the County of Paradanta, in relation to the health centers of the Neves, Mondariz, Mondariz-Balneario and Ponteareas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u342	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u343	Thank you, President. Counselor, before you tell me why I ask the question, as you did the other day, OCounty-Paradanta is also my district, just like Pontevedra's, and that's why I ask you this question. The truth is that the neighbors and neighbors of this region are greatly concerned. They have been manifested on several occasions precisely to ask and protest the situation of left-wing in infrastructure and primary care personnel in their neighborhood. It's a rural area. Like all the rural areas of Galicia, they have problems with dispersed population, very old population and bad communications, deficiencies in public transport, and that coincide, and also coincide in the deficiency, in the poor health situation in primary care. Thanks to the work and effort of the professionals, the level of assistance is worthy, is more than worthy and decent. I'm going to talk to you, as I did the other day, about several health centers. You made some answers, gave us some answers regarding some of them. I'm going to give you a series of examples. At the Snow Health Center there is only one bathroom for the staff and for the people who have to come — patients — and they have accessibility difficulties: the doors — for you to understand me — open out and not inside. There's only one pediatrician who shares with Arbo's county. In Cañiza, ruled by the People's Party, in the health center, as it is also a CAP and they go out, when they're out of attendance, they have to go to the health center or the PAC of Ponteareas, which is thirty kilometers away. There's only one pediatrician who goes to the Growing Health Center on Tuesday and Thursday. Cañiza, besides, in recent times, has lost the X-ray service and therefore have to go either to the PAC in Ponteareas — thirty kilometers — or to the PAC in Vigo or Vigo hospital — 60 kilometers. In Crescent, ruled by the People's Party, there is only one nurse who is physically in the center two and a half hours and one pediatrician on Tuesday and Thursday. In Ponteareas the X-ray machine does not work in the afternoon, so they have to go to Vigo — thirty kilometers — and, in the worst case, they also have to go to Cañiza when in Pontearas in the afternoon the X-ray machine does not work. There are three pediatricians in theory, because in the afternoon the pediatrician in Ponteareas has been nearly a year off. The center's tired of spaces, they're all busy. And many times, morning doctors have to do four hours in the afternoon, in case some of them — which sometimes happens — are on their way down, because they also have a right. The question is very simple, Counsellor: are you satisfied with the health situation of the County Paradanta, yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u344	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u345	No, Mrs. Vilán, I was saying that I saw the number of spokesmen increase when the elections are approaching; it was not for anything else, but it's the same. Look, I agree with you: I think the health service in this area and throughout Galicia is more than worthy and, as I said, decent; I say yes. And in the counties of the County and the Paradant — by the way, he talks a lot about the County and little about the Paradant, but it's the same — health care is of quality. It is a very good health, especially because first the remodeling of every hospital area — the largest remodeling of all Spain — with Álvaro Cunqueiro, the Mexeiro and Nicolás Peña, and — as I say — is now a high quality response for all citizens. Logically, the region is affected by the lack of family doctors and pediatricians. It is a matter that is not of the region, it is, as we say, at the level of Spain and we are trying to work in that direction. Since the Galician Health Service, we have taken measures to alleviate the shortage of professionals, such as the extension of retirement age, career, open and permanent competition, or the provision of nursing facilities specialized in pediatrics, where we are a pioneering community. In infrastructures, in the county we have five health centers — one in each municipality — that have a TIS ratios per professional ranging between the one thousand and four hundred of the Ponteareas Health Center and one thousand cent of the Mondariz Health Center. In the region of Parada, where there are four health centers — one for each municipality — they maintain a TIS ratios per professional between a thousand hundred and seventy-six TIS of the Covelo Health Center. It is noted that the Socialist Party's ministry is proposing for the year 2022 not to exceed the thousand five hundred medical cards. We're going far ahead in this county of Paradant County and throughout Galicia. The health centres of Salvaterra de Miño, As Neves, Mondariz-Balneario, Covelo, Crescente and Arbo are all of municipal heritage dependence. If there's a deficiency, we've reached agreements with the Town Councils to improve them. And, of course, if there's this problem in the Snows, the mayor just has to try to talk to us to get there, and of course we'll hear it. We are also making innovation, as in other health centres in Galicia; in particular, teleassisted assistance: the center of Salvaterra was pioneer in Pontevedra province, in this new health center. At this time, and in the face of the situation of the pediatrician's discharge, the children of Mondariz and Covelo are served at the Health Center in Ponteareas with a wide range of care offers, as they have free appointments in the agenda for demand and without delay of scheduled reviews. Of course, we believe that we must try to achieve, and we ask the ministry once again, more accreditations to be able to form more pediatricians and reach all of them. Let's hope that in the call, now that there's an end to a new promotion, we can increase the number of pediatricians and, of course, cover what we would like: that there was less distance, that the parents would travel less distance. But we have to say that attendance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u346	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u347	...it continues and, as I say, with free appointments and tokens for your assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u348	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u349	Thank you, President. Counselor, we're not talking about hospital care; the question is about primary care. And they have to go to the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital, with the displacement that it means for the people who live in this neighborhood, who, I told you, are mostly bigger. Besides, there are tremendous public transport problems and there are communication problems. From Mondariz to Ponteareas you say you can go, but there are at least 30 kilometers, and you have to go with your children, perhaps at night, or move to Vigo, which at least 60 kilometers from some places in the area. Counselor, that's living in a world that's not the real world of the County Paradant. The paper looks very nice, but it doesn't look so nice when you have to live there. Perhaps it has some connection to the fact that rural depopulation is the fact that the health care provided by the Galician Union to the neighbours and the neighbours of the Paradant County is not particularly good. By the way, it's good, within dignity, for the work and effort of the professionals and professionals who work in the Galician health system, not for their work. The answer is practically the same as you gave me the other day. There's a model response for each of the comarcas, because it's pretty much the same as the one you gave me to Pontevedra. Counsellor, since your government has left about one hundred and fifty MIR squares; you say there is a lack of MIR squares, because you have left about one hundred and fifty MIR squares since 2009, and there are 1,249 professionals less primary care. Maybe something also has to do with the situation that's going on. What surprises us is that you decide not to go to a meeting today in Madrid because, of course, you are already sober about the work you do and then you don't need to talk to the ministry, when, of course, the fault of everything — of course — is the ministry and, of course, of Pedro Sánchez, to which you recently called "the Evil." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u350	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor for the Government's replication shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u351	I didn't say anything to Mr Sánchez, but I say the following: of course, what you can't do is try to reach an agreement in the ministry by making one meeting from day to day, taking the Committee of Secretaries — which is usually done a week earlier — by tomorrow and gathering the advisors in the afternoon to arrive at agreements like what I just said. What would you say if instead of saying that OCounty-Paradanta had to have less than a thousand five hundred cards...? That's the future of primary care in the region; they're in the ratios, of course, the lowest in all Galicia, and Galicia is in the lowest in all state. I mean, we have more professionals working for fewer patients, and that's good. Pediatricians, the same thing: the ratios, the number of pediatricians for children in this region is also from the bottom of Galicia, and we want to keep working. There's no amortization of any family doctor or pediatrician; we're just waiting for us to have more possibilities for recruitment, and of course we'll do it. We are, as I said, about to end a promotion. But the ministry is dedicated, through decrees, to doing, instead of social Fridays, now they are social Wednesdays. Why? Because Friday begins the election campaign. So he wants to go ahead and say he solves the primary, but it turns out he doesn't solve the skills he has, which is the largest number of accreditations. We call for an increase in the number of pediatric training courses in Galicia. August, requested in August! [[Murmurs.]] Today, they tell us on Sundays -- by the way, they now work on Sundays too in the ministry; it seems to me very well -- that they will now open up the possibility of asking for it as of 15 this month, that they will give us those that say that they have already believed in Galicia, a greater number of squares, and that they will give them in a mail that they will send --din -- officially on April 30, two days after the general election; a curious thing too. So we demand the ministry that it fulfils with what it has to do, with its competences; we will fulfill with ours. [[Applause]] And, as I say, I will finish the intervention as you started: we believe that health care in the area of Paradanta County is good, very good, worthy and decent — these last two qualifications are yours — of high quality hospital and primary, because we have excellent professionals and because we have a health system integrated by professionals with planning and direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u352	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. de In Marea, on the development by the Health Council of a plan for the protection of human health in relation to lindane pollution
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u353	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u354	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. Unfortunately, and more than a year and a half after we started bringing this issue here, we still have to ask you again about the existence of some kind of plan to care for the health of the neighbor and neighbor of the Porriño affected by lindane pollution. Last week I was able to attend a kind of act — I say a species because I'm going to describe it below — in which the director general of Public Health delivered in a plenary room, making a row as if it were the queue of butchery, the result of the analyses to the neighbors and the neighbours of the Porriño that were monitored in October to see the levels of the different isotopes of Lindano in a series of neighbors and neighbors of the district of Contrast. That's the only activity, plus a so-called field study that he did at the Galician Union in order to defend the health of that neighborhood. We remind you from here that it remains undiscontaminated not only the whole area of Pereira-OContrast, but the whole area of the Torneiros polygon and the rest of the Porriño. So there is, today, no plan given by the Galician Union to decontaminate the area; there is, as it has been transferred by the European Commission. I have to remind you that in October I was in Brussels meeting within the Directorate-General for the Environment, which moved us that the Galician Council did not request any kind of background and told us that there are funds at its disposal. So nothing is being done to decontaminate the area. Neighbors and neighbors find themselves totally unprotected by protection, because they are abandoned by the Town Hall, by the board and by the ministry. The different administrations disagree and all declare that they have no background to take over the different competences. Health protection is a competition that reaches your advice and is therefore the sole responsibility of the Health Council. What was told to the neighbors and neighbors last week was at least, of course, a reassuring thing: they were told that they didn't understand, they missed it, they were treated as ignorant and no reliable information was provided about the exhibition. Today, the toxic remains present, the neighbors and neighbors are exposed, there is no decontamination plan and the situation is their health responsibility. We do not want, Mr. Almuña, to answer by telling us the barbarities that were told last week, as there is less incidence of cancer in Porriño, when we all know that, apart from the exposure to Lindane, there are another series of public health problems that we are not going to deal with here today, as can be the exposure to crystalline silica. The reality is, we're not doing an in-depth study. Let's ask him again, once again, after year and a half, about this matter. That's good! There are neighbors upstairs, in the gallery, who feel absolutely abandoned by you. And, of course, it's a joke what happened last week.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u355	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u356	Thank you very much. I also greet the neighbours of the Porriño who are in the rostrum, to whom we, of course, are reporting everywhere about this situation. Of course we have a plan that we've been developing for some time. Since the Health Council, in the face of the problem related to the appearance of the lindane, we have carried out actions to try to identify the most exposed population in that area, minimize their exposure and power, thus providing adequate health care for people in the Contrast-Piereira area who had symptomatology compatible with possible exposure especially acute to that substance. In the face of the occurrence of waste in the Contrasto-Pereira area after a work of the Town Hall, and to minimize this exposure, the Council decided on the delimitation of the contaminated area and the determination of the population potentially affected by this event, with epidemiological surveys and samplings in wells, neighbors and sources in the area identified by the hydrographic confederation to identify the source, pathways and types of acute or chronic exposure. We inform each neighbour by letter of the results of the water samples collected in their homes; we disseminate health recommendations on water consumption from wells, wells, water supplies and local and garden products from animal origin; we inform the neighbors and the Town Council at several meetings held at the Town Hall with Council technicians, and we ask the Town Council at the time that it had to guarantee the alternative and supply of drinking water with sanitary guarantees, as well as the completion of the work of extension of the sanitation network, since, from a health point of view, regardless of the other environmental management actions that have to be done in the middle or long term on the ground, it was decided to isolate the sources detected to stop the exposure of the neighbors. Biomonitoring of the people exposed in the affected area to try to quantify the intensity of the exposure: this is not an assumption or a presumption — as the honourable Member said — is a real study, with very few international experiences, because most of those exposed are lindane workers, and few general population. Therefore — as I say — the biomonitoring of the people exposed, together with the results of this survey, by taking samples of blood to neighbors scattered over time —March and October 2018—. On June 27, 2018, the results of the first analyses were delivered to the neighbors at a meeting in the municipality of Porriño itself, and a quick route was also established for the primary care physician in this area to be able to derive from the specialist of Cunqueiro Alvaro immediately. The second meeting was just held on Monday, 1 April, after convening by certified letter all the persons concerned. That he understands it as an insult, as he insults the neighbors the general director... who knows him perfectly well, that he's a respectful person. Of course, you have to keep the data confidential, but it's something we have to do, because we're in a process of transparency and, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u357	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u358	...watching for the health of the neighbours of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u359	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u360	Your Honor, what confidentiality is there in a row of people to collect analytics, who had seven and eight analysts from the people of your house? What confidentiality is there in the data? What kind of neighborhood protection? Of course he missed it, he told them they didn't understand. You weren't there, but they tried them ignorant; it was shameful what happened, shameful! They told them by the neighbors that there was a Lindano in the Torneiros area and that there was a Lindano in the public school, and they told them, because they told the director. Those were the answers of the Public Health Officer of this government. It was absolutely embarrassing. No medium-term control is being done. Two analysts from a particular neighborhood don't solve the problem of an entire polygon, of housing, of schools, of business, of places where people live and live normally, of a park where there are under tons of product. They don't have any plans to solve that, and no control is being done for the people who live in tournaments. The lindane is not eliminated, Mr Almuña; it is persistent, as indicated by the studies of the Committee on Petitions and the report of the Directorate-General for Internal Policy. There are reports from the European Commission. We were gathered, and they said you're not doing anything because you don't want to and there's funds at your disposal. The exposure to Lindan is related to many health problems. I recommend to you — because I don't have time — that you read the report published by the World Health Organization at The Lancet in 2015. They're a lot of health problems, but those that might exist that are not yet investigated or with conclusions that make a conclusive relationship with the exposure. But, Your Grace, there's no planning. Neighbors don't know, and you're not decontaminating the area. The reality is that there's a whole population in the tournament polygon that's not paying any attention, zero, to their health. And I'm sorry to say, sharing analytics results in a city hall is certainly not a health consultation. It's good to take your hair to the neighborhood and treat them as if they were ignorant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u361	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Government's replica round has the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u362	The only one who's treated as ignorant so far has been you. Look, in addition to caring for and tracking the potentially exposed people... because you know, in addition, that the experts there — as I say — are very few at the international level, because it's a problem, of course, very rare. Apart from that, in order to avoid exposure, we have to eliminate waste in the affected soils — of course, we know that — and that task is being addressed by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council. An investigation was commissioned in 2017, when the situation was detected in the Contrasto-Piereira area, and, when the results were analyzed, the study was expanded and a new investigation was contracted to determine the amount of contaminated waste and soil and to be able to develop a decontamination project in the area. Analytical results show that only buried residue is detected from the manufacture of lindane on the main track of Contrast, which is a municipal road, so decontamination will be centered in this place. For this, the draft waste disposal project was contracted for an amount of EUR 2.5 million. The estimated execution period is six months. This project is pending execution, remembering, as I said before, that it is a municipal highway. This project, together with previous research carried out, was sent to the Porriño Town Hall in June 2018 by email and certified postal mail. It seems that the mayor, at that meeting, said she didn't know about this study; for it seems that she is sent — as I say — by certified mail a few months ago. In addition, it is found in the last phase for its adjudication of the tendering for batches of the study works of the Torneiros Polygon Security Cell, in the Porriño, encapsulated, carried out in 2001 to know the situation and evaluate the need for additional actions. The study has a duration of eight months and an amount of bids of one hundred and nine thousand euros. And a comprehensive research plan for the areas affected by the continuation by Lindane to identify possible sources of soil and water contamination for lindane waste in the municipality of Porriño and border areas located in the municipality of Mos, with the definition of more appropriate actions. It will last ten months, with an invitation to tender of EUR 393,409. Since the Health Council we reiterate: we will repeat the analyses and surveys in the last quarter of this year and we will continue to provide adequate health care to people in the area of Contrast-Award. As we have already said, we enable access routes — fast roads — to specialists if necessary. On the other hand, and since there are currently no specific international protocols for the follow-up of these types of exhibitions, health professionals in the news area will be informed on a regular basis. Recommendations are maintained not to consume or use water from wells, streams or sources in the area for cooking, toilet, garden water, etc., and not to consume products of animals created in such dwellings or garden products, especially tubers, grown on land where contamination or water with water cannot be ruled out from. Of course, we're going to go on, and we have to give a quiet message:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u363	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u364	The levels found in the neighborhoods are not clinically significant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u365	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Da Flora María Miranda Pena, from G.P. de In Marea, on the actions planned by the Health Council for the design of a plan to address the situation of mental health care in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u366	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Miranda Pena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u367	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Your counsellor, Mr. Almuña, only knows how to manipulate with plans about paper, plans without concretion and budget that don't solve people's health problems. The People's Party has left us without a mental health plan ten years ago. He promised it there in that gallery in March 2017 and we still have no real estate. The Galego Mental Health Movement, composed of committed professionals, has just issued a report on the state of the matter. It's alarming, because they think there's a shortage of personnel and health resources. There is no decent attention without programming, no staff and no budget. In recent years, people have suffered the consequences of the so-called crisis: they have increased mental disorders, increased unbearable suffering, and worsened people's living conditions. The World Health Organization itself warned of these consequences. And you looked elsewhere, you didn't do anything to reduce the impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable people. Since 2009, which has been your government ever since, there are more privatizations, paralysis of resources and cut-offs of benefits. In this time we consume more drugs, more services, and worse mental health. We've reviewed the report just published by the Galego Mental Health Movement, but if it's not for them, we've also reviewed what you yourself commissioned from Dr. Mateos. The conclusions are to draw the colors, Mr. Counsellor: an increase in prevalence of mental pathology in Galicia by forty-six percent, especially in women and especially anxiety and depression; if we talk about children and children, this increase is sixty-six percent. Of course, people suffered during the crisis, and you made deaf ears. It increased by 200 percent the consumption of psychopharmaceuticals, especially antidepressants. Two hundred percent! Even alerts us to the Medicine Assessment Agency. In Galicia there are 6,000 people with serious mental disorder, and almost half — almost half! — did not go to the doctor, the primary, or the hospital. Counsellor, what does this tell you about the accessibility of the health system? What does this tell you about how we protect the most vulnerable people? Look, this headline was from La Voz last week: "Three months without appointment in psychiatry after trying to commit suicide." [[Mr Miranda Pena shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Eight thousand people are waiting for a first appointment in Psychiatry. Primary is absolutely saturated and unable to derive psychology. If we had clinical psychology units in primary, we would solve a lot more, and we would medicalize much less the suffering of people. There is a policy of dismantling mental health, suicide, psychopharmaceuticals, inequality, lack of accessibility. There is only one unit of Child Youth Hospitalization, and the whole southern part of Galicia is deprived.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u368	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u369	He had to mobilize against the containment rooms in the Coruña because they were attacking people's rights. There is a lack of resources in Psychogeriatry, especially in Ourense, which is the oldest province...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u370	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u371	...and there's a 40 percent shortage of professionals. What are you going to do with this, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u372	Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, we are developing a mental health plan in Galicia, and I remind you that unfortunately the national mental health plan has been left on the table after three years of work by many professionals. We cannot, of course, expect them to make that plan at the national level; we will continue to work on this plan. But, logically, we're still working on a daily basis, and the basic structure is the mental health units, which are the resource from which preventive and care actions are carried out. By the way, we have in primary care mental health units with psychologists and psychiatrists, because you seem to forget it. As for the staff, we bet on the specialization of the staff. In Galicia we were pioneers in the creation of the specialized nursing category, which includes, among others, mental health. On 4 April, the resolution of the specific invitation to tender was published in the DOG, which allowed for the linkage in the whole of the health areas of eighty-five of these professionals. New infrastructures: in March 2018 we equipped the area of Ferrol with a specialized infant-youth outpatient care device, and in fact, already the seven health areas, all of them, have a similar unit. We're also working on a new unit of Infant and Junior Hospitalization -- which you remember -- at Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital south of the autonomous community. As for assistance actions, we collaborate and subsidize entities with social support programmes for children with psychosocial problems, autistic and food spectrum disorders, among others. We also increased in 2018 the rates of the community support device for people with chronic mental disorders, the service fee that pays the reserve for the use of squares and the number of squares available in the different types of devices. We funded a new psychosocial and labor rehabilitation centre in Orders with thirty new squares and a protected apartment in Pontevedra of five squares, and increased the number of squares in the psychosocial and labor rehabilitation centers of Carballo and Lugo. We also launched an intensive care program for people with first psychotic episodes at Vigo Psychosocial Rehabilitation Center and we increased the number of squares in residential units, to concert all the authorized vacant squares in our autonomous community. In addition, we have projects to reduce stigma, increasing the visibility of people with mental disorders. In addition, we have a budget that grew in 2018 in a fourteen percent, exceeding eleven million euros. We develop innovative projects, such as overcoming your depression, through Telea's teleassisted platform, or self-prescribing knowledge through the Bibliotherapy project in mental health. We are in the process of completing the organizational structure with the provision of new day hospitalization resources and hospitalization of acute children and adolescents, among others. In training, every year, activities directed to professionals, through the Health Knowledge Agency, and patients, through the Galega School of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u374	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u375	In research, scientific production increased, highlighting the health research institutes of Vigo and Santiago, with numerous projects in this field.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u376	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u377	If we have assistance, training and researchers, but at the same time, we are also planning the future of mental health with the new plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u378	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Miranda Pena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u379	Now, Your Grace, you come to spread that role of technocrat that brings to all the full, read data and more, but you're talking to a health worker; I come from a consultation, you can't fool me with that data that involves you in cellophane paper. I know what people suffer and I'm also aware of professional impotence. We're not gonna buy him that smoke that he's trying to sell us. The plan promised in March 2017 is not coming; the 2020 strategy looks like a science fiction plan; they build paper plans and try to give them appearances of professional collaboration; they use private consulting -- but, let's look at the suicide prevention plan -- they use professionals as a parapet of their own irresponsibility, and they do institutional propaganda. The most vulnerable people have been displaced: women, children, elders and people with serious mental disorders. They don't listen to sick people — not enough — and not their families: families ask for more social intervention, not what you just described now; public intervention. They require day-to-day hospitals, home care, breathing and psychosocial rehabilitation programs; it's a right for patients with severe mental disorder. We want him to contain in the first person with people affected by a mental disorder; we want them to do more prevention. Is this the society you want? Who doesn't care for the most vulnerable and who promotes exclusion? Look, Mr. Almuña, in 1997 they did a study that estimated that the needs of health professionals in Galicia were one thousand and ninety-fifty people. At this point, they're working ninety-fifty, just half. And you know why? Because you cut off your skills in professionals, and so you have to work in a poor way. They should reinforce primary and they should also reinforce clinical psychology, because they have high resolution capacity. What did they plan to do, in particular?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u380	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u381	Because he didn't speak at all of any mental health care plans for the people of Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u382	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miranda. For the Government's replica round has the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u383	The truth is, listening to you, it's clear that the left is sensitive and the right is not. If you tell me you're listening to suffering, it doesn't seem right-wing politicians. And attendance's been leaving her for a long time, because it's been political for a long time. [[Applause]] Look, we've been working on the mental health plan for over a year now, and we've been putting into practice the measures you're going to take. Speaking is simple, but working together or making teams is more complicated. In this process we have all the agents involved and prioritize the needs of people affected by mental problems and their families, professionals, professional associations and other public administrations involved, in order to achieve synergies that allow them to prevent their appearance, improve health care and reduce the impact that the suffering of a mental disorder represents. We conducted a survey addressed to health professionals and associations of people affected by mental disorders in order to identify the most relevant aspects. The need to improve primary care, to develop resources for child-child care and to enhance research in this field was clear. We launched a process of consultation with groups of experts, in which the scientific societies of the autonomic and state field participated, the Galaga Mental Health Association, the Galician Psychiatry Association, the Spanish Mental Health Nursing Association, the Galaga Association of Pediatrics in Primary Care, the Spanish Society of Psychoxeria, representatives of third sector entities, the Federation of Family and Persons Associations with Mental Disease —Feafes —, the Red Cross, the Association of Children's Parents with Psychosocial Problems — Aspaneps —, Fademga-Full Inclusion, professional schools such as the Official College of Psychology of Galicia and the Official College of Social Work and the professional of different areas of mental health care, involving counselling with competences in the education and provision of social services to minors and persons in dependency. We're all needed. We further note that the measures of the plan will focus on interventions consistent with the promotion of the autonomy of people with mental disorders, in line with the draft of the national strategy — as I say, draft, because it has not been adopted —; the strengthening of the Community approach as an aid model; the coordination of primary care and the intensification of health care provided especially to the most vulnerable groups — minors, persons at psychosocial risk and women — and to the most serious and prevalent pathologies. We will build on measures to ensure patients and their family environment and care for the right care in time and form and their return to the community, which we have been working on in these years, increasing the resources of community support and developing new models of community care. If we have assistance, preventive, formative actions and researchers in this area, but at the same time, we are planning the future of mental health in Galicia for the coming years. Within the 2020 Strategy, for us, mental illness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u384	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u385	...and mental health planning is fundamental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u386	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the reasons for the traps that Sergas is setting up for construction as before the Moaña health center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u387	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u388	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Moaña Town Hall Health Bureau and their mayor, who accompany us from the rostrum. Counsellor, Junta is in debt to the neighbors and neighbors of Moaña, a town council of around 20,000 inhabitants that does not have a Sergas health center. Health care receives it at the Social Centre of the Sea, which has been adapted to allow health care, and that is why they have been demanding for years to build a health care centre. In 2011, with a Government of the People's Party in the Town Hall, they made a partial modification of the PXOM where a plot of 2,066 square meters was established in the area of Sixalde to cover what was needed for health care. Already in this mandate, the Council, in 2017, brought to the attention of the councillor who would make this plot available for the construction of a health centre; a plot of 2,066 square meters fully edificable, with urban certification that allows a real, unbroken building of 7,750 square meters. The Town Hall is working on urban processes to urbanize the area and allow the plot to be made available to the board as soon as possible. So an agreement with the people who own Sixalde, where there is this reserved ground, and reserves in the budget a match of 300 thousand euros to proceed to the construction of the street to give access to the plot. And from that point on, they're starting to come up with problems on the part of the Health Council, in these life-threatening cases. The Council tells the Town Hall that the plot is not enough. On March 27, Sergas sends a letter to the Town Hall stating that the plot proposed by the Town Hall to build the health centre is not considered appropriate. They claim 3,100 square meters under the justification that the size of the health centre is key not to mortgage the future of the health centre and that the tendency now is to try to carry out the health centers, ideally, on the least possible plants or entirely on the ground floor. Call your attention, Counselor, this change of approach, because Sergas informed you in August 2018 that the forecast was to build a 1,500 square meters building per plant, and the plot allows 7,750 square meters. That's why I'm asking you today, in the name of the neighbors and neighbors of Moaña and the Town Hall of Moaña, why this change of criteria? Is it because the City Council of Moaña is doing its best to get that health center done as soon as possible and you, the Councillory and Sergas are without an excuse not to do so? Counsellor: What's the reason that, now that the Council has taken the steps decided so that it can be a reality the construction of the health centre, you, from the Council, are putting all sorts of pitfalls so that this health centre can't be a reality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u389	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u390	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, we finally agreed on something. First, to welcome the mayor — the representatives of the People's Group — and the members of the platform, with whom we have already been on numerous occasions, because we all have a common interest. And, as I said, Mrs Prado, we also agree that we need a new health centre in Moaña. We now have a breakdown of activity, and therefore the highest interests — logically, from the neighboring Moaña — are also members of the Health Council. But precisely because of the importance of the Morrazo district and because we want to improve these facilities, a functional space plan study has been hired to see the best conditions this region could have in both functions and, of course, in spaces. So it came to the conclusion — that the study was presented, by the way, on June 26, 2018; there was not a lot of influx, as we wanted, of representation of the municipalities involved at that time — that, for what Moaña needs, we need a plot of 3,350 meters with an investment of 4,350,000 euros; a great investment that is necessary and that we want, of course, to deal with. In a population — as we say, Cangas and Moaña — of forty-five thousand inhabitants, we're going to invest in a total of 11.2 million. So we agree that it is necessary. So, since February 2nd, we asked the Town Hall to place a parcel at our disposal. That study marked that it was 3,350 meters. Why? Because what we want is to make a building with the lowest possible heights and space to be able to park professionals and also citizens who need it; those are the conditions we ask for. Just like we asked the Cangas Town Hall exactly 7,000 square meters, or, for example, the Lalín Town Hall — which tomorrow is going to give in and the Galician Union, at the board of the Union, will accept — a plot of 15,000 meters to make an integral health center in the municipality of Lalín. So we want to do it and there is no trap on the part of the Council; as I say, we would be delighted to be able to move on. From February 2 to March 25 – there are a few days ago – in a year and two months we have sent six letters to the Moaña Council to try to sign the agreement we signed with all the municipalities where we make a health infrastructure and to let us start the plot; today, no agreement, no plot. So, of course, we encourage the Council to continue working and, as soon as possible, to be able to count on that plot which, as I say, will greatly improve the conditions of care, not only for greater health functions, but also for the integration of these functions, now displayed in several buildings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u391	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u392	As I say, of course, the will is entirely by the Council, and we hope that we will soon have that plot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u393	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u394	We think the ideal is 3,350, but of course, today we don't have that or any smaller one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u395	Thank you very much. For the replica round, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u396	The first question I'd have to ask you is, why does that ideal have to meet the Moaña Council? I hope you, on the screen, can see these images that I'm going to show you. Marin Health Center: everyone can see that it has basement, bottom and three floors; a plot of 2,600 square meters, and built, 4,052. You can all see this, which is the Tui Health Center, where it's also a plot of 2,049 square meters and the constructed surface, 3500 square meters. [[Mr Prado Colors shows images to members of the House.]] All recently built. The one from Gondomar, which is being built, two plants; the one from Oia, which was inaugurated in 2016, also from two plants; the one from the Road, which is being built — Mr. Counsellor, if you could see it, you see yourself here very well portrayed in front of this Road Health Center, also of three plants. [[Mr Prado Colors shows images to members of the House.]] How curious! It turns out that a council that is not governed by the People's Party is what has to do with the ideals of construction. The ideals of construction are for those maneuvers of delay and pole in the wheels that the People's Party makes in those municipalities where it doesn't govern. [[Applause]] Sergas and you, Counselor, have absolutely no reason not to build the health centre on the plot which is practically in a position to make the Town Hall of Moaña available and to be able to sign that agreement. [[Balbordo.]] If they don't, it's pure sectarianism, a political maneuver against a council by not being ruled by the People's Party, unique and exclusively. [[One honourable Member: That's right!]] [[Murmurs.]] Today, from here on, what I ask you to correct, stop putting obstacles and problems on the buildings... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u397	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u398	...that he should work to equip the Moaña with the health centre he needs and to sign the agreement, and grant the meeting to the mayor and the Health Bureau that he was asked for and that you didn't have the right to grant it yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u399	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u400	That's what you have to do; to be less sympathetic and to work so that the neighbor and neighbor of Moaña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u401	Thank you very much. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u402	...have the health center they need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u403	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Health Counsellor has the floor. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u404	I thank Mrs. Prado for her publicity of the constructions of the Health Council. But it would be sad if those who defend Moaña's neighbors were just the Health Council. [[Applause]] We want to make a building more accessible, better. In Caldas de Reis we rejected a plot that had the Town Hall because it was in a flood zone; so we looked for the best plot possible to make the best health services. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, this is the publication presented in June 2018, where the meters are clearly indicated that they were needed. [[The Counsellor will show you a document to the members of the House.]] Today we don't have this plot, but we don't have the plot that says the Town Hall has for the health center; it's not presented, it's not available to do the work project and then the work itself. We will continue to work, because — as I say — Moaña needs a new health centre, it is important. We're going to defend Moaña's neighbours so they can have the best possible service. They're going to have an area of care with fourteen medical and nursing appointments, six multi-purpose rooms, a technical room, a telemedicine room, an ultrasound room, a sample room, two pediatric consultations, two pediatric nursing consultations, two multi-purpose rooms and a nursing room; an area of physiotherapy with a consultation and six treatment cabins; an area of matrona with a consultation and a prepared area, and an office for the social worker. And, of course, it will also host an important concept that is in Morrazo district and that we defend, because it is a very important region of Galicia, a region that grows and a region that has a very young population, too, and therefore we need to give that concept of integral health care, with an integral health center in Cangas and a magnificent new health center in Moaña. As I say, we're gonna keep trying, and we're gonna keep working so that this is possible. It's going to host, in addition, an integral area of home hospitalization for both municipalities; it's going to be in this health center. And, as I said before, tomorrow, at the board of seats, we're going to approve the assignment of the 15,000-square-metre plot of the Lalín Town Hall. By the way, there was a meeting of the mayor of Lalín and the mayor of Cangas saying that the Health Council didn't want to do the health centers; tomorrow Lalín, after four years, put a plot of 15,000 square meters at the disposal. We asked Cangas about 7,000 and Moaña about 3,350. To do the wrong thing I don't think we're in politics; we must do the best we can. Of course, Moaña's neighbours deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u405	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the execution of the departure or budget headings for the years 2017 and 2018 to the plan for setting up rural population prepared by the Council of the Rural Environment and co-financed with European funds
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u406	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u407	Good afternoon, Counselor. Counselor, you know Galicia is fading. Today, deforestation is one of the most worrying problems in our country. The ten-year-old uninterrupted government balance of President Feijóo and his policies leaves us a country with less than 90,5,000 people, a country that lost 200,000 people under the age of 40 and a country in which the largest population of sixty-five years is twenty-five percent, while the under twenty-five don't reach sixteen percent. The data published today at the INE say that 93.5 percent of the Greek women under the age of 30 have no children, the worst data in all autonomous communities. And the papers tell us, "Temporary work and eventuality, a brake on maternity in Galicia." "The population indentation is getting worse: 60,000 young Galicians don't want to be mothers." Of the remaining ones, Counsellor, the distribution is also unequal: most of the population focuses on the AP-9 layout. We have 3,000 parishes like small areas in 300 municipalities, eight out of ten Greek municipalities have lost population in the last decade, and in ten years we have twenty more municipalities with less than 2,000 inhabitants. On March 23, 2017, when the People's Party had been ruling continuously eight years, with demographic data year after year demolition, they announced a plan to set rural population with 200 million euros. A plan that, in fact, is the collection of a series of budget games that already existed, some even cut them off; plasmanas together in a little paper, and so they call it plan. A plan which, in addition to fulfilling the usual policy of transparency of the Galician Union, is virtually impossible to follow up on budget. The president of Galicia, in his investment speech, announced that this was going to be the rural legislation, but the truth is that in this rural legislation, when the German GDP growth has been around three percent, we are less, we have an older Galicia, most of the jobs created are still precarious, the welfare society has not recovered, there is a lack of support for the productive sectors to maintain and improve their productivity and we are gradually losing services in rural areas: precarious public transport service, lack of betting on ICT communication in rural areas, lack of replacement for family doctors, lack of pediatric care in health centres, lack of childcare schools or childcare points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u408	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u409	...inadequacy of squares in residential and day centres and reduction of aid for rural impulses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u410	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u411	...from GDR and municipal roads, among others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u412	Thank you very much. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u413	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, it's so bad that I only had three minutes to count all that flap. President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the rural population fixation plan is a fundamental pillar in the work and strategy of the Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With this plan we seek territorial cohesion and the maintenance of the population, supporting the socio-economic activities of rural people, the creation and conservation of jobs and the development of new business models, as well as the balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities. This plan is articulated in six major areas: territorial cohesion, innovation and training, sustainable agriculture, improved competitiveness, generational renewal and cooperation, which, in turn, are divided into twenty-three measures, among which I would like to highlight the partial restructuring, the increase in the territorial base of farms, the Leader programme, the promotion of pilot projects in rural areas, the maintenance of agricultural activities in areas with natural limitations, investments in forest technologies, the installation of young people in agricultural activity or the promotion of the use of machinery in association, among other measures. In total, the allocation of this plan was more than EUR 200 million in four years, up to 2020. I am going to quote, as the question was, the most important games, with the current execution: for investments in agricultural holdings, EUR 40 million, and at the moment we have sixty-two percent executed; for processing and marketing of agricultural products, EUR thirty-one million, and at the moment we have 100% executed; for partial restructuring, EUR twenty-seven million, with the eighty-nine percent executed; for Leader programmes, EUR twenty-one million, with the one hundred twenty-six percent executed; for maintaining agricultural activities in areas with natural limitations, EUR seventeen million, with EUR 200 and one percent executed. Well, I can say that the plan is working in its configuration, and we say so because today -- it's like, two hundred thirty million for the 2017-2020 period -- we've been running two hundred forty-five million euros, that is, a total execution of one hundred six percent. And if you want data for them: in territorial matters, we're eighty-seven percent; in innovation and training, in forty-four percent; in sustainable agriculture, in two hundred four percent; in improved competitiveness, in one hundred thirteen percent; in generational renewal, in seventy-four percent; and in cooperation, in 143.5 percent. In total — I repeat — a execution, at this moment, two years after the plan is finished, one hundred and six percent. And to finish my answer, I want to highlight the importance of this great plan for the future of Galicia, a future that passes through rural areas, because, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is rural. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u414	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u415	Mr Counsellor, we Socialists fully agree with the objective of this plan: to achieve a balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities and the creation and conservation of employment. But, look, Counselor, I'm going to give you data too — as always — data that refutes Mr. Núñez's statements when he announces rural legislation, data that refutes the idea of President Feijóo's good manager, and data that rejects the policies of advertising and propaganda of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the data on agriculture — EPA data — tell us that ten years of the People's Party leave 19 000 six hundred less busy in agriculture, and since the plan has been implemented, there are 3 000 fewer. And I'm going to give you executional data from your advisor's office. Implementation of the Galician Rural Development Agency, programme 712A - Population fixing in rural areas: in rural legislation 2016-2018, of the initial credits, left behind twenty-nine million euros. Execution of the Rural Councillory... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr President, please, either shut up or leave. Well, it's just the top. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u416	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u417	I know they don't like the data. Implementation of the Rural Environment Council in actions and appreciation of the rural environment and economic dynamisation of the rural environment: year 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u418	Quiet. All of them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u419	...they don't run sixty-seven million euros; exercise 2017, they don't run seventy-four million euros; exercise 2018, more than one hundred thirty-five million euros not run. In total, Mr Counsellor, in rural legislation, the Galician Union does not run EUR 300 million in programmes directly related to rural development and population settlement in rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u420	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u421	One thing is what they say and another very different thing is what they do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u422	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the word for the Government's reply to the Middle Rural Counsellor, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u423	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I understand you have to use the questions to machacar and to give data; give data, give data, give data... I just tell you... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u424	Quiet, everyone. Silence! Quiet. [[Balbordo.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u425	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is: What was the budgetary execution of the game or departures destined for this plan in the years of vigency? The answer is: one hundred six percent; two hundred thirty million euros budgeted, two hundred forty-five executed. I can't give you any more data for sure. [[Applause]] Look, the future of Galicia goes through a strong, attractive and new rural — I understand that this can say that it's a speech of you, but it's our speech too — a rural that is dynamic and that enables us to fight against the three great challenges we have and that are intrinsically linked to each other: First of all, the fight against depopulation, which causes rural Galicia to have greater economic fragility and which poses a danger to the environment, because this results, among other things, from erosion of the ground or an increase in spontaneous vegetation, which, of course, increases the risk of fires. That's why he bets this plan for funding, with EUR 40 million in the programmes to improve competitiveness or with EUR thirty-five million for sustainable agriculture; it's money that we put for these objectives. Secondly, this plan has to play an important role in the generational renewal of the Galician agriturismo. With population ageing, there is a considerable increase in the risk of abandonment of agricultural activity and there is a lower capacity in rural areas for adaptation to change and innovation as well. For all this, this rural population fixation plan refers to sixty-five million to this second axis, of which twenty million are for the fixing of young people in agricultural activity. I ask: is it wrong that we have incorporated 1,466 young people in the last three years into agricultural activity with this money? Is that wrong? Is this generational rebound bad because PP makes it? What's the problem with us doing the things we're committed to doing? [[Murmurs.]] Thirdly, the plan also acts against dispersal, which causes the cost of providing services to increase, as well as rising costs for the provision of infrastructure in our rural areas. That's why this plan takes seventy-two million euros devoted to territorial cohesion, with great weight in the planning of municipal roads, to partial restructuring or to Leader programmes. Territorial cohesion passes, ladies and gentlemen, by the maintenance of the population. And it's also fundamental to bet on supporting those business models consistent with the exploitation of endogenous resources and that we can assimilate with more traditional businesses, as well as bet on new business models. Ladies and gentlemen, rural has to be the engine of Galicia for the future, and this is a challenge that poses the greatest challenge for that Galicia we all want. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u426	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece on the European Commission's response to a question by a European Parliamentary Member of Greece regarding the possible increase in the forested area with eucalyptus in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u427	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u428	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That member of the European Parliament is called Ana Miranda, who is worth ten. He asked about the increase of pyrophytic invasive species and, in particular, of eucalyptus in our country, and was answered in this way: the rural development program of the region excludes the increase of the forest surface of this species. [[Applause]] This fights frontally with the review of the Forest Plan, which foresees an increase in eight percent eucalyptus in pure masses and twenty six percent in mixed masses, but what total forested surface with eucalyptus do we talk about? Is there reliable data? Because in the last ten years, from the 1998 Forest Report to the 2009 Forest Report, nearly doubled the hectares, and since 2009 we have nothing. But in the last ten years, as a data update, what happened? For an increase of such magnitude that up to the same Council recognized in a writing in 2017 that in the last ten years the surface of eucalyptus nites has been increasing at a rate of twelve thousand hectares a year. What data do you transfer from your Council, Counsellor, to the European Commission? Ten-year-olds? Those of the new forest plan, which only contemplates those? Do you know from that commission that the reality of our country is monospecific masses or bispecific pyrophytes of hundreds and hundreds of hectares without discontinuity? Do you know from this European Rural Development Programme that we are walking here about a vast dust, a land without management and forestry, the fruit of the forestry policies of a powerful and cacquil pastry known as Ence? Do you know that the hundred and twenty million euros for the prevention of fires and the twelve for the restoration of the burning that sends Europe go into the smoke of fires? Do you know that in Galicia we're going around with a review of the Forest Plan that gives validity to the systematic overrun of the forecasts of it, that is to say, that establishes as a starting point the violation of the previous one? In four decades the surface occupied by the eucalyptus has been decoupled, from 27,639 hectares to 288,000, only in pure masses. The result is a country, ours, with a dirty green olive colour, where the fires are at the order of the day and the useful agrarian surface is around 21%. I will repeat to you the answer of Mr. Secretary of the Commission's head of office: the Regional Rural Development Programme excludes the increase in the forest area of this species; "excludes". What view does the German Government deserve from the tacit prohibition of the increase of forested area with eucalyptus to which the Commissioner refers in the above-mentioned reply?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u429	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u430	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin with my answer to your question, I want to begin with a question to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. It is: how do you feel about inventing data with a single ideological battle partisan motive, totally false data, which only damage the image of Galicia, taking into account, curiously — of you — what do you want most to defend? How do you feel? Look, the German Government seems perfect to the Commissioner's opinion, which is true, in addition. There is not a single penny of euro for the eucalyptus in the rural development plan. But the German Government doesn't do it is to invent figures, Mr. Rivas, it doesn't invent data. You two almost a month ago went out in the press, accusing me of the fact that in Galicia there were, according to official data, four hundred eighty-five thousand hectares of eucalyptus; they added that some experts -- they will tell me where those experts are -- raised the figure to six hundred thousand. But I'm the one who asks you the question: what official data is this? Yes, yes, because I ask you, you told me. [[Laughter]] What official data is this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u431	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u432	What experts are the six hundred thousand acres? How can they lie to the Greek people with so much contempt? I come here today to disassemble with official data what the Block says about the eucalyptus. Look, three weeks ago in the palace of Quian, in Sergude -- by the way, the King of Spain was there; you were invited; just like, as they are not monarchies, they didn't happen to them -- the inventory of productive species or rapid growth of the northwest peninsula; official data of the Government of Spain, which not of the Union, data three weeks ago, ladies; remember: experts, six hundred thousand. [[Murmurs.]] What do they say? The Eucalyptus surface in Galicia is three hundred thousand hectares, 300,507 to be exact. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know how much it's 3,000 acres? Practically the same as Forest Inventory 4, with data from 2010. That is, from 2010 to 2018, which is when data from the Inventory of fast-growing species are taken, increased the surface of eucalyptus by twelve thousand hectares, by 4.3%. Do you know how many 3,000 acres are? Half of what you announced, half. I hope to see the data from those experts one day. Do you know how many 3,200 acres of eucalyptus? An example of coexistence in Galicia of different species, with cuts of wood that allow many Greek families, many, to receive money. It's an example of the need for industries that promote sustainability and also promote the cutting of these species, such as one that with the measures they're taking will stop giving work to 5,000 people in Galicia. Look, the eucalyptus are a species that contributes, along with other productive species, to increasing the income of about eighty thousand Greeks and Greeks, to whom we all deserve a respect. The forest districts in which there are most eucalyptus plantations are the least burning in Galicia. And the eucalyptus are a species that has to live with other productivity and with the leafy deciduous deciduouss to, among all, make a multifunctional mount, a living, dynamic and sustainable mountain, economic and social.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u433	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u434	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u435	Thank you very much. You have the floor, to reply, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u436	Counsellor, the first thing you have to explain to these Members, especially those who are not rural, is whether they are 300 thousand hectares of pure or mixed. That's the first. Because the mixes end up turning after a fire into pure. You know it very well, especially when the level of forestry your Counsellor's promoting is zero, zero. And I'm going to say more:...Thank you, thank you, there, man, there! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of 1,162 hectares burned the other day at Rianxo-Dodro, nine hundred were of continuous mass, and were of eucalyptus and some pine, were continuous. You tell me that Fire Extinguishment Service, with a sharp wind 40 kilometers/hour from the Northeast and 70 kilometers/hour cracks, is able to stop that fire. We're on a little dust and you know why? Because your Counsellor's not able, you don't have enough noses to do a land order, which is something this country has pending since the BNG left the Rural Middle Councillory, the only lesson you've received in rural areas throughout your history of government, which is almost all life. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Please don't alter me, don't alter me. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u437	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u438	You need to review your forest policy, you know why? Because the fires are repeated in the same places. And you know why? Because after a fire like the one in 2006 in Dodro-Rianxo it was repeated because if you again committed the same barbarity of letting it rest in any way and not making forestry. And we have areas in the country where the fires repeat over decades, which is the cycle. [[Murmurs.]] Tell them, please, Mr. President, if most of us don't know what we're talking about. Please do it! Of course, for Christ's sake, of course! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u439	Silence! Peace, silence. We know the difference. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u440	You see, the Fire Prevention and Extinction Service deserves a group of experts and the management of this country's mountain not, Counsellor. That's the pending subject that you have and that we have all of us here represent the German country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u441	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor for the Government's replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u442	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, as Mr Rivas has moved, not everyone knows what the mixed masses are and what the pure masses are. Mixed masses are that there may be species in the middle, which may be eucalyptus, may be pine, may be other species. But let's look at what Mr. Rivas said in an appearance to the media. Mr Rivas said: "The 1992 Forest Plan, which will end in 2032, provides that this year the maximum area of eucalyptus in Galicia would be two hundred and forty thousand hectares". Mr. Mini, you know, Mr. Rivas, you know this is pure mass. And then he says, "However, already in 2017 there are two: four hundred and eighty-five thousand." This officially. Officially seeing where he is. In pure time. "But the data of experts reach six hundred thousand." I say — and I repeat — that in pure mass the data of the Forest Inventory of Rapid Growth Species of the Northwest Peninsular of the Government of Spain says 300,507, which, if the calculations fail me, is half what the supposed experts say. Therefore, fake news, Mr. Rivas, please. And, if you like, false news, in Greek. [[Applause]] Look, you just told me a great truth, too, two. The first is that there is no service that in complicated and windy climatic conditions from the north can stop — but the species alike — all of this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you're contradicting a speech you've had throughout the commission and you're contradicting the speech that says there has to be twice as many people working in the Service. So I remind you that, in fact, that way we can go on the right line. We have an exceptional service and we have to tackle other basic problems which are in the opinion of the Committee on the Study of Forest Reform, which you voted against. Look, out of the hundred and twenty-three recommendations, there are almost twenty recommendations that talk about land management. Do you know where they will be implemented, Mr. Rivas? In the Law of Recovery and Value of Galician Agrarian Land, which will combat this fundamental problem we have. So don't talk to me about rural planning, which we're doing. If we do, because we do; and if we do, because it is already time for it to be done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, what do you want me to tell you? Look, and in particular in the answer clearly, I will make use of this document, which I will ask the President to deliver to the parliamentary groups, which is a report, which, by the way, is being done, among other things, because of what we have also been collecting of structural change in the Council, in which the Directorate-General for Planning and Forestry Planning, which is focused on this, collects the forecast for farmers from plants that have to be provided for forest repopulations financed from public funds, which is what the Commissioner said. [[The Rural Medium Counsellor displays a document.]] Of course, we can't use public funds more than this. And here, Mr. Rivas, all the plants that farmers have to prepare are collected, and I can assure you that there is no eucalyptus plant. There are — man!, these official data — Pinus pinester and there are leafy of all kinds, brown and of course also oak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With which I want to move him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u443	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u444	...—and it's over—is that here are the official data of what we do with Europe's money, and I ask for responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u445	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u446	...to all politicians on this subject, and a lot of responsibility for the statements we make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u447	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the consequences of the wave of fires registered in Galicia in the first quarter of 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u448	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u449	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. I would not like to begin this question without highlighting and praising, on behalf of the Socialist Group, all the workers who make up the fire fighting device and who have given the best of themselves in the work of extinguishing the fires and thus protecting the neighbours and the neighbors and the territory of Greece. Go to them our recognition. [[Applause]] It is also our thanks to the State Government for the help it has provided in this task. And it goes, above all, our recognition and gratitude to the neighborhood affected by multiple fires, which, armed with boilers and hoses, set up a human tide that proved decisive to quench the fires. It seems paradoxical, Mr. Counselor, that today, after ten days of low temperatures, with generous rains and snow, we are talking about fires. But this favorable climate situation should not push us to forget another nearby and worrying reality. Thus, in the first three months of 2019 — January, February and March — Galicia was the scene of intense incendiary activity spread along and wide its territory. This wave of fires in Galicia sparked a manifest social alarm in the form of fear, panic and horrible nights. And covered, covered, the whole territory, from north to south and from east to west: The Bridges, the Mosque, Walls, The Barco, Carballo, Boiro, Baldos de Randín, Girl, Paderanda, Viana, Zas, Chandrexa de Queixa, Fisterra, Oímbra, Palas de Rey, Lousame, Vilarino de Conso etc., etc., etc. Dodro-Rianxo, more than a thousand hectares burned. The fires were highlighted by their virulence and intensity, impropriety this time of year, providing a burnt surface that has already surpassed throughout 2018. Experts are coming to warn that these types of fires, aggressive and unseasonated, are already in Galicia to stay. Let us remember as near examples in the autumn of 2017 and in this winter of 2019. Fires don't understand seasons anymore, they're unpredictable. But there have been times when there are warnings about this new situation. In 2050 in the province of Ourense it will rain half that currently and Ourense walks towards a future with two single seasons: winter and summer. For all this, it is essential that the evaluation of fire policy should begin by analyzing the degree of implementation and effectiveness of the planned measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u450	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u451	...before they start looking for incendiaries. And so, in the face of this wave of fires, we ask you the following question: What are the consequences for the Greek Government of the first quarter of 2019's fire strike?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u452	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u453	Mr President, I would also like to express — as I have done before — but I will continue to do so — my sincere thanks to all the professionals who in this first quarter, in the most extreme conditions, worked to ensure the safety of all the Greeks and our territory. Look, as you all know, the wave of fire is one of the greatest evils that suffers from our land. The fight against this evil, of course, is something that we all need. Since the first quarter of the year, we have shown our concern for the fires that have taken place in the first quarter of the year, and, as you yourself point out in your question, they have been — it is true — fires which are impropriety of the time of the year in which we find ourselves, above all by their number, to a large extent by atmospheric conditions, very favourable to the spread of the fires. The high temperatures, the drought on earth due to the lack of rain and the northerly wind make an unbeatable cocktail for the spread of fire, as was the case in the Dodro-Rianxo fire. From the Conseilerie do Medio Rural we insist that the fundamental weapon to fight forest fires is to have an orderly mountain and sustainable forest management. That's why we made the General Directorate of Forest Planning and Management, which is already beginning to bear fruit. An orderly mountain helps prevent fires. The main challenge we have to face is also to raise awareness of the entire population that the defence of the mountain is an obligation of everyone. Three out of every four fires are intended. In the year Galicia is suffering a high incendiary activity, clearly provoked. When Mr En Marea told me earlier that we didn't give the data, I have here the information progress with all the data from the first quarter of this year, that I will either incorporate or give in to the President of the House, so that it will be known by all parliamentary groups. [[The Rural Medium Counsellor displays a document.]] But I'm forwarding their data. Look, in three months, 585 fires, more than three thousand six hundred hectares affected. And besides, 78% of these fires were provoked, with data from the Service, either because they started at 7:00 p.m. or because they had three or four fires at the same time. What is the effectiveness of our device? I spoke before the period that was March 23-31, which was when all the fires were joined, 21 minutes of reaction. And besides, about 67%, ladies and gentlemen, almost seven out of ten fires are left in cones less than 1 acres. Almost 4% are over 25 hectares. I mean, we have a very effective service. But there is this great intention, and I repeat again that 78% of the fires since January have been provoked. Paragmatic examples of simultaneous outbreaks, as I said earlier: in Laza, in the fire, ten fires; in Gudina, two fires of three fires; in Vilarino de Conso, multiple outbreaks over a mile. At night, more than 45% of the fires were between 19 and 9 hours, when it was known they couldn't operate the air media. So, I understand — and with this ending already — that the main challenge we have among all is to raise awareness of the population that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u454	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u455	...the defense of the mountain is an obligation, without any doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u456	Thank you very much, Counselor. To reply, Mr. Fernández Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u457	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, we are concerned about the lack of self-criticism of the People's Government in the matter of fires and we are concerned about the tics of the People's Group focusing more on finding culprits than finding solutions. Thus, during successive mandates of popular governments, they justified the fires and their effects on the existence of incendiary plots until the prosecution denied the existence of such plots, as also denied them by the Commission set up in this Parliament to make recommendations to the fire prevention and extinction system and forest policy. [[Applause]] Counsellor, permanent demonstrations, after every fire is started, of willfulness — by the way, free of charge, not on the basis of most cases — do not solve this problem. I'm not saying that there are no incendiaries, of course there are!, but constantly focusing on this subject we think it's a mistake. In the fire of Dodro and Rianxo it happened again. A first demonstration — in this case of the President — of intent, to correct it later once there were other indications of the causes of the fire, such as an electric post. This wave of fires has caused panic, fear, eviction of schools, roads and highways cut off from traffic, helplessness of the neighbors. Using the intended method is not enough. Only the rigorous analysis of errors and correctness of each fire makes it effective in the fight against fires. Unfortunately, this rigorous analysis is not being done. Counselor, the new fires, more vigorous, more destructive, disseasonated, are already with us, as many experts have warned. It is a physical risk that we must recognize, and act accordingly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u458	End, please:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u459	...and the Socialist Group is also concerned that Mr. Feijóo's government assumes and settles itself in Mr. Rajoy's cousin's thesis denying climate change and its consequences. On this issue, we expect clarity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u460	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor for the Government's replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, I have to make it clear that those who intentionally set fire to harm people or property are criminals, and we all have to go after them. And I'm surprised, Mr. Fernández, that we can talk about not focusing on incendiaries when 78% of the fires are intended. It's just that we have a problem that we have to solve. Of course there are a lot more of those we are working on, but I have to remind you that you, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, voted in favour of recommendations that are set out in the Committee of Study, which is what we are implementing, and that we all knew perfectly that they would operate not only in the short term, will operate in the medium and long term, which also in the short term, because of the issues we are doing. [[Murmurs.]] So I beg you and I transmit to you that you have the sensitivity to understand that all that is being implemented has to produce your results. Look, by giving some data, of course, the first thing we said was that we understood that the best natural firewall against fires was a clean, controlled, ordered biomass, and so we had to have a leadership unit -- and this is taken up by the recommendations that you've approved too -- that you've worked on that forest planning and management, and what we've done was a General Directorate for Forest Planning and Management -- it's been working for four months now. But, for example, this report that referred to before plant needs for farmers has already been able to do this General Directorate for Forest Planning and Management. Another of the issues we said in the study committee is that progress was needed in prevention. So within the Mountain Defence Directorate, we created a specific sub-direction of prevention, and we're talking to the Service, transmitting that it has to be a public service, unique and versatile. And why versatile? Because you don't just have to work in extinction, you have to work in prevention, too. And I, referring to the Dodro-Rianxo fire, have already come forward to try and put in place what we intend to be the prevention formula when fires of this kind pass, so that they do not repeat themselves, indeed, because it has repeated and entered the same place as in 2006. So there we have to be able to enable new prevention measures, and for that we have the structure, to be working in this area. So what I want to transfer to you clearly is that we have this awareness, we have the support of that commission of study in which we are implementing the recommendations, but there is no doubt — and I repeat again — that we also have a very high problem of intentionality, and while we are not fully aware of the entire Greek citizenship that we all have to end the incendiary wounds, we have a problem that is going to be very difficult to solve. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u462	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr José Manuel Rey Varela and nine other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the existence of some contact with other administrations with the Sea Council for the signing of an agreement or collaboration for the implementation of productive improvements in the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u463	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, good afternoon. Ferrol's creek is a unique natural, tourist and sports resource for the city of Ferrol and for the municipalities that bath their creeks. Approximately 500 families work in the marine sector, promoting an environmentally sustainable economy and working day by day to improve the quality of our stream. For years now, the Government of Galicia has been working to improve the productivity of the marine banks, promoting conservation and regeneration measures of the marine areas, and also collaborating — which is very important — with the confrereries in the execution of joint projects. There are finally facts and not words. The Pías bank, as you well know, as zone C since 1998, has finally moved to zone B classification in 2017, almost two years ago. With this and other measures, for the first time they increased operating permits by 20%, i.e. people who may have their livelihood in the stream, also recovering the positive trend in annual average billing. Recently the Ferrol and Barallobre confrries proposed the need to make different managements towards the viability of the opening of funds in the river and planting of seed. Sanitation must continue to be a priority, a priority to achieve better productivity from banks, further promoting conservation and regeneration measures. We want to ensure the conservation and exploitation of marine resources by promoting the improvement of the quality of the sector and its development towards the future. Because of this problem, motions have been presented, almost unanimously approved, in addition to the councils of Ferrol, Narón and Mugardos. The Council also announced — we do not know whether, in order for the Galician Union to express a certain commitment — it would equal the contribution of the autonomous administration to this important purpose, and the Government of the State began, in theory, a study on the funds of the Ferrol River in collaboration with Cedex. Because of the importance of the environment and the employment of this sector, I wanted to ask you whether there was any contact with the Deputy of the Crown or the Government of the State with the Sea Council for the signing of a convention or collaboration for the implementation of productive improvements in the Ferrol River.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u465	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u466	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. King Varela, as you well say, Ferrol's laugh is extremely important for everything that has to do with the primary sector of the Galician sea, and therefore we thank all possible contributions from all the administrations who want to help the Galician Union revitalize that stream. Before the question you ask me, I can only tell you that since September, and through the media, we knew that there was a certain interest in conducting a series of studies on Ferrol's creek. The next answer we had was in October, where we were called to a technical meeting, and of which I can inform you that at that meeting what we were confirmed was the interest of the Ministry of Development in doing the previous study. Also, as you mentioned, there are two initiatives, the Ferrol and Fene Council, as well as an institutional statement by the Narón Council, adopted unanimously. With all these issues, as it cannot be otherwise, the Council of Galicia fully agrees. So much so that since 2013 we've been working on a series of technical and scientific studies to assess the state of the Ferrol River, and in February we've been ahead of you at a meeting that we held the Director of Fisheries Development and I was at all the Ferrol River Symposiums that were already being carried out on a work plan, which we would start between 2019 and 2020. In early March, the Director General for Fisheries Development rejoined a meeting with conferre technicians and with all the major bosses of all the ferrol river confrries, where they were already finally informed of the plan that has already begun. This plan, in general lines, consists of the setting up of a control and surveillance point that will be put in an area of the Planets. It is an area in which, apart from taking control of all the production that is extracted from that area, scientific and oceanographic data will also be taken, and besides, a removal of the substrate of 85,000 cubic metres, and also an addition of 40,000 square metres of arids will be made in the eastern part of the bank, at the request of the Ferrol and Barallobre confreries. For all this project we have already placed the management order of 752,000 euros. I hope that all those reports and those commitments that have been adopted both by the Ministry of Development, through the Government Sub-Delegation, and by the Deputy of the Crown, for they help that more can be done by that line of Ferrol, that so many jobs can continue to generate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u467	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u468	Thank you very much, Counsellor, for this explicit commitment and real commitment, EUR 750,000 investment for the production sectors of the Ferrol River. I know that commitment from you to the sector and Ferrol's laugh, in particular. Commitment, joint work and sensitivity, which is also very important when we're talking about a sector that has gone wrong. As you well know, it's been a sector we've been confident that it's in economic upheaval and social upheaval for a long time. Well, it's true that, months after that advertising meeting that you're talking about, we miss that others who are so committed can equal this economic percentage. Of course they had 70,000 Euros from Galicia, not 750,000. And, therefore, today, the Deputy does not respond to the demands of its own confrereries. Let us hope, however, that soon the Crown Deputy will join the Galician Union, together, in the improvement of the productivity of the Ferrol River and in the defense of the confrereries and the sector. The same thing we have to say about the state, right, because a meeting is gone. What I can tell you is that, of course, we're going to work also because the new government of the state, the government who governs, defends the Ferrol laugh and defends a new project of regeneration of the Ferrol River. After preaching, we want wheat. The state should have the study by now. It must be borne in mind that you have a magnificent center, the University of Santiago, of marine control in Ferrol's own creek. And the Town Hall, surrounded by fights around sanitation, unfortunately, took two years to license the Board for an investment in sanitation of EUR 5.4 million. We hope, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u469	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u470	...that the work of the Union can be adhered to by the Town Councils and the Council of the Crown itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u471	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. For the Government's replica shift, you have the word of the Sea Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. King Varela, I thank you for your words. And the truth is, you, who knows us, knows that we've been working with the sea sector for a long time. The sea sector also knows that our commitments to them are always commitments that we have been able to carry forward, they are made. In such a way that this commitment we have now made of EUR 752,000 is not an announcement, or much less, because the seafarers themselves have already seen that the plan has already started on April 1, as we have committed ourselves. But it's just that this comes from too far behind, our commitments are maintained in time. When we arrived at the Galician Union in 2009, we acquired a commitment to clean up that Ferrol River, which, as you recall, has been classified as zone C since 1998, and we managed to reverse that situation in 2017, and practically today the whole Ferrol River is already classified as zone B in a stable way. That meant a very strong investment since Galician Union in times of economic difficulty. But still, we're the ones who like to fulfill our commitments. I sincerely hope that Parliament and the Ministry of Development will also help — as I said in my first part — to revitalize Ferrol's laugh. We need everyone's engagement. If they don't have the gallarity to put what they demand from us, what they can, but something that helps the sea sector not only with words. I just want to remember that up to 2009, from 2007 to 2009, they invested 38 million euros there, which in theory was to improve productivity and the classification of production areas in the Ferrol River. When we arrived in 2009 they had not improved productivity or improved the classification of the areas. And both shellfishers and ordinary people are able to see that one thing is commitment and another is reality. I sincerely hope that the Coruña and the Ministry of Development will respond to what they have now offered to all sectors of the sea in the Ferrol River. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-10-DSPG110.u473	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished all the agenda items, we finished the session. Thank you very much. [[Ends the session at 7:30 p.m.]] Bug fixes in DSPG number 109, corresponding to the plenary meeting on April 9, 2019. If you notice a material error in the DSPG background, referred to the date of your session, you will be corrected as follows: On the first page, where he says, "Full Session April 4, 2019," he should say, "Full Session April 9, 2019." In the header of all pages, where he says, "X legislation. Full series. Number 109. April 4, 2019," he should say, "X legislation. Full series. Number 109. April 9, 2019."
