ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u1	Good morning, we continue the meeting with questions for the President's oral answer. And before I begin, I communicate the justification for the inattentiveness of this plenary session, by Ms. Luca Chao and Mrs. Paula Vázquez Verao. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia to end the eventuality of workers of the fundamental public services of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u2	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, a question that has a great deal to do with today's question is who commands the People's Party, whether it sends the extreme right or sends the extreme precariousness of the Feijóo Nuñez. In the People's Party until a few months ago it was clear that they were in charge of the corrupt and those of the cuts, and they were shifted to opposition by the Gürtell ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u4	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u5	Then, with his explicit support, he entered into the inner power the extreme right hand of Pablo Casado, but the theme was his hand. So much so that, after the demonstration of Columbus Square, you had to switch from centralist to autonomist coming here to claim more competences for Galicia. And then he turned into a centralist in less than fifteen days, saying that he no longer wanted any competition for our country, an obvious consequence of that ideological shift, these bandages, but above all that imposition of the new leadership of the People's Party for a few months ago. On Monday, it seems that after a meeting they had in Madrid in the national executive, you, and you in particular, squeezed your secretary general. But his secretary-general went out to the press to say that there was no turning in the center, that he had not moved anything, and that the PP was at the end he wanted to be, that it was the end of the right. We want to know which is the People's Party in charge. Tell us that really because it matters to us. We want to know if it sends the PP of the extreme precariousness that you've applied to the policies of the Galician Union, in the public service, or the one of the far right, that apart from all this is the sum of the cuts, the sum of corruption and the sum of the extreme right-wing male and reactionary Vox. Look, I wanted to bring you here a story, which is a real story that last week came to bring in many nurses who are eventually working in Sergas, and that's why they're on their feet. Adriana is a nurse who finished her career 11 years ago. And, after eleven years, he has concatenated 810 contracts; 810 contracts after approving two oppositions, eleven years living in absolute precariousness. Last week we were told that Adriana had an appointment and had a dilemma. I had a dentist appointment to pick up some points. And if he went to the dentist and didn't pick up the phone, he would penalize her without working for several months. If I asked permission to go to that appointment, I would be late for more than fifteen days. And he needs to work because he has a daughter to keep. And for that reason simply -- and like her, many -- what she does is leave the phone to someone else, who takes it, and then, with the recently pulled points, she's going to work. This is the legal situation in which thousands of possible nurses are found in Sergas. Sergas invented the task accumulation contract, which could well be called the accumulation of indecency, because if he signed month by month, he does not generate right to days of free will, nor to vacations enjoyed in kind. Many times they concatenate a few days after others and there is no possibility of rest in a whole year. They can call one up to three hours in advance — and in less than three hours if they qualify as urgent — in such a way that there are no breaths, no vacations, no work rights. In primary care they deal from Monday to Friday and bid off at the weekend to be able to hire later on Monday again, really fraudulent contracts like those made in some private companies, unique and exclusively for the Union to save the weekend's contribution and pay on the weekend. We want to ask you directly to remove an extraordinary OPE, and that extraordinary OPE ends with the eventuality of Sergas. I know you're going to tell me that's not possible. And it's not possible by a law, a law passed by the People's Party in Mariano Rajoy's time. Well, I make a proposal: let us come to an agreement to request from the Galician Parliament the derogation from the law which limits the rate of rest and, in this way, that we may end the precariousness that exists in Sergas at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u6	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, if you had looked back, not back from what happened in the last elections but back from what you have in your seats at this moment, and had checked that no one comes to listen to your questions, you should think about it. You're here to talk about health and at the same time about centralism, about the money order that I don't know who commands who doesn't. Really, can you teach us who's in your parliamentary group, who's in your party mix? Who's in charge, Your Honor, of the Tide Parliamentary Group? Is there a Parliamentary Tide Group? Will there continue to be Parliamentary Tide Group? Are you still a spokesman? Why does it not respect a little, firstly, this Parliament; secondly, the facts; and thirdly, something important to me and that it is much more important that those who command the Tides and whether the Tides will follow or will not follow or simply dissolve, which is public health? Mr. Villares, public health, to me, it's not just a political commitment. It's a personal commitment. And that's why public health, while we're in government, is going to remain a permanent commitment from the budgetary point of view and from the priorities point of view. We signed with the unions the Plan of Stability in the Employment of the Galician Health Service until 2018, with an explicit commitment: 5% of interinity; that is, 95% of stability. This, in addition, we did it and we exhausted 100 percent of the replenishment rate, 100 percent. And we have public job offers, agreed with the unions, of 5,000 people. At the 2019 call, more than 1,300 squares. Since we've been in Galicia, we've approved or executed anything but 8,850 squares. We are one of the health services with less percentage of eventuality in Spain. And you come here to bring me a series of considerations. Look, not only do we maintain stability, and it's our commitment, but, for example, that the ratio of nurses in Galicia is higher than that of the National Health System, superior. We have 10,500 nursing professionals, and 88% of those 10,500 nursing professionals have a definitive appointment. You know perfectly well that we use all existing legal mechanisms to give greater stability to the staff of the Galician Health Service. Moreover, the Education Council and the rest of the boards have facilitated their percentage of increase in public employment supply, of 108% — two communities in Spain have this possibility of fulfilling all commitments of debt, of expenditure and of deficit — and we have made it available to public health. That's why I'm surprised not only at their lack of competence in health matters, but at their frivolity with which they are treated and how they use health to try to come here talking about politics. You, speaking of politics, of party, of coherence, of rotation... but, Mr. Villares, I've once told you that the problem was not with the president of the board, nor with this parliamentary group, the problem is at home. And as you have it at home, you'll know how they're treating you at home and how you'll end up at home. But don't mix the internal problems of the tides with the public health of my country. Don't mix it, Your Honor, because if Galician public health were like the Tides, this would be to get out of Galicia. No, Your Honor, Galician public health is one of Spain's best health services. And you, as a German, should take advantage of it and be proud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u9	Don't come here to teach lessons from anything, Mr. Villares, because only since incompetence can you talk about public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u10	Thank you. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u11	Who are you calling incompetent? 8,000 people who manifested themselves the other day in defense of public health because they are possible and want to stop being potential because they are doing a job that is not possible but structural for Sergas? Are you talking about all those people complaining about vice? Are you saying that? They're not doing any work, they're doing structural work. But they're living with absolute precaution because you're not putting the means you could put in to change your situation. You could change your precarious situation. You've just given up on the nail: they've exhausted the spare rate. That rule, which sets that limitation, which is the replacement rate, could be changed. That's why I offer you an agreement in this House so you can lift that limitation, and take it to Madrid and change that rule. That's to get on the side of public health and get on the side of those people who are taking care of public health, who are the nurses and the rest of the health personnel who, in very precarious conditions, are supporting the health system; which is good because they and they sacrifice themselves, not because of the health abuse that the president of the Galician Union and the whole of the Government of Greece dispenses to them. So if you want to talk about politics, politics is really changing things. And changing things means changing unfair laws. And it's an unfair law that is currently preventing 8,000 people from stabilisation at work, in the nursing staff, who are currently in a precarious situation — and the rest of the Sergas health staff who work in a condition that is regrettable and in which you and no one would want to live. That's what's happening, and that's what we have to decide here. And I come to ask you questions so that you give answers not to me but to all the people out there claiming quality health. For one thing, taking care of all those people who take care of us. And you don't take care of precarious contracts that last five days from Monday to Friday, that send them to the street to save at the end of the week and then they hire them again on Monday. It's not like that. In eleven years 811 contracts is not to treat people who are taking care of us in the health system, it is not! So, if you want to talk about politics, come here and commit yourself to a legislative reform promoted by this House that ends with the eventuality not only of the nursing staff but of the Sergas health staff as a whole. You and the majority group can do it, they can promote it, they can give a political debate at the Greek level and at the state level to extend labour rights. But no, you're more busy strengthening precariousness as a structural form of government and as a structural form of exploitation of good people who want to live from their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u12	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u13	Mr. Villares, I was commenting on incompetence and you've just given a lesson in this incompetence again. He doesn't even know the Galician Health Service or his staff. Mr. Villares, how can you say twice that there are 8,000 precarious nurses in the Galician Health Service if the total number of nurses working in the Galician Health Service is 10,800 and, from 10,800, 88% have indefinite, statuarial contracts? How can you say that barbarity and stay so belligerent? Don't you understand, Mr. Villares, that if you had better prepared your appearances, you'd probably have a bit more flattering future? Don't you realize that you can't come here, as a group number two of the House, after the People's Party, to say a barbarity of this kind and stay so belligerent? It says 8,000 nurses in precarious conditions and it turns out that, in the Galician Health Service, they work 10,800; of which, 88% have a fixed status appointment. And you stay so loud! And you continue with the question and also give us lessons on how to manage: State Budget Law, limits on public job offers... Why do you not accept that Galicia was one of the few autonomous communities that has always used the legally qualified public job offer in Spain and that has used it as much as possible, as possible! Why do you not accept, Your Honor, that we have made public offers of employment, approved or executed, in more than 8,500 places? [[Applause]] You speak of the need to amend this law in the Congress of Deputies. But, Mr. Villares, if you will enter the Government from July...! You will enter the Government of Spain as of July and say that a law has to be repealed, when you become a part of the Government. I look at the Socialist Party's benches and it seems that's not clear at all, but I look at their benches and it's still less clear. But what I see, Your Honor, is that you're taking our hair from us all. They are ruling in Madrid together, or they want to rule in Madrid together, and here comes a proposal to amend a law that only you can change. But, Mr. Villares, why don't you talk a little more seriously about matters in your time? Look, they just came out with data from the Ministry of Territorial Policy that measures the staff that works in the autonomous communities. Well, look, in the Galego Health Service, since 2008 -- where we took possession -- about the year 2009, do you know how much has increased? Sorry, in the last year, in the last year, between 2018 and 2019. 592 troops, 592 troops, data from the Ministry of Territorial Policy in Spain. Does it seem to you that this is unreasonable? We now have 1,600 more people working in the Galego Health Service than we had when we arrived at the Government. And now it turns out that you come to propose... what is your health policy? The Mareas health policy is, first, to be against the preventive screening of xinecologic cancers — yes, Your Honor — to question the vaccines and to carry out their electoral campaign against the EUR 350 million grant to the National Health Service for technological equipment. That's your proposal: not vaccines, not screenings of xinecologic cancer, not high technology? Mr. Villares, you will understand that, between a policy of real public health and a policy of destructive public health, I have no doubt about the policy of the Government of Galicia. Mr. Villares, I'm sorry you don't even know the number of nurses working in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u14	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, about the action being carried out by the Government of Greece to guarantee the right of citizenship to a decent housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u15	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u16	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. It's been applying cuts in health care, education and dependence for ten years, but also in another fundamental right, as is the right to a decent housing. And I'm going to give you some data on the defeat of your government in this area. First he drastically cut public investment. Today, 75% less is devoted to housing policies in our ten-year-old country. It stopped the construction of public promotion housing. When he arrived at Junta in 2009, 1,778 homes were surrendered; and in 2017, which is the last data we have, 12. I don't know if this seems to you like a presentable or entrepreneurial figure. I'm telling you, it seems to us, because I don't know if you know how many people are asking for a public housing in this country -- I know you don't care, just their papers. Well, look, there are 14,000 people waiting — 4,000 of them, boys and girls who see it's a mission that can't be able to access a decent housing in this country. Since 2014 he hasn't made a single public housing rental. And all of this is shameful in a country where in the last half of 2018 we had 5 daily evictions precisely because of rental defaults. And this is not a statistic, these are people who stay in the street. And as you go olympically through housing policies, the price of rent does not stop growing, especially in those places where there's more demand, as it is in cities. You don't have a public housing policy and you're leaving a lot of people out in this country. There are many measures that could push, but, of course, to promote policies of government one must have a head in Galicia and not have a head in how to fix the electoral breakdown of the People's Party. And we see that, in addition, they don't pay much attention to him in the People's Party in Madrid — they are the consequences of ten years of absolute submission, which leave him to you in the situation where they leave him. In any case, I understand that you are concerned, because obviously in 2020, within a year, you will have to report to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And it's very difficult for them to help you after ten years in which you've been undoing the public housing policy of this country. In any case, it's time to rectify. You can claim the transfer of all of Sareb's housing to provide them with social policy. You can increase the resources for rehabilitation and public housing by facilitating access to housing to those people who have the most need. You can create a social fund for collectives who have the greatest problems in accessing the housing, or you could have more public housing resources if you were willing to record those voyeur funds or the large banks that are speculating with the public housing. Keep it, Mr. Feijóo, a year to correct. If he doesn't, he'll correct the Germans and the Greeks in the polls his bad health policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u18	Don't worry, Mrs. Pontón, I understand it perfectly. You don't want to talk about health, I understand; you want to talk about housing and it feels good to me. You're talking about clippings. Does it mean to pay the 2,000 million euros you left without paying in Galicia? Are you referring to this snippet? Do you mean the cut that we had to put into the budget of the Board to pay about 400 million euros every year of the 2,000 that they left without paying? That must be it, Mrs. Pontón. Look, in health we are at EUR 4 billion in budget. Never has a government in Galicia had EUR 4 billion in budget. Not only did we cut but we increased. The same way we increased in well-being. When you ruled, there were 14,000 people who took the monthly allowance. Today there are 61,000. We have increased all the percentages and all the well-being squares — nationalist politics at that time. In daytime centers, 242% —2,400 more squares—; in Alzheimer's, 111%; in higher residences, 2,400 more squares, 42%; in disability care, more than 1,100 more squares, 25% more. Your Honor, are you referring to the cuts of the Bipartite? Because this is more, more. On housing, 3,500 housing rentals — this is the Galician Junta Park — plus 243 that we are building; twelve measures on eviction during the economic recession that you left us when you left the Government; we have lowered taxes so that people can acquire housing — especially in rural areas — we are the autonomous community of reference in Spain in terms of rehabilitation, with 55,000 families supported to improve their housing in the field of rehabilitation; we have approved a law of rehabilitation, probably the most pioneering law in all Spain; and we have 5,200 shelters protected, the highest offer of residential soil to build these homes. And you talk to me about housing policy? Look, the most important housing policy is to create jobs. And with regard to job creation, we're less unemployed than you were when you were ruling. Yes, Your Honor, no one can buy a house without a job. That's the problem you, as always, don't want to see. But let's stop talking about these issues -- look, 12 measures on defiance. Do you know how many families we avoided their street launch, well because they couldn't afford the mortgage, well because they couldn't afford the rent? 2,470 these years. Some BNG council did something about the defiance? Some council of the BNG, which has jurisdiction over soil, gave in to the Unity of Galicia alone to make housing? But when you ruled, the effort a young German had to make to buy a housing because there was nothing but 73% of his salary. Now it's at 31%. The biggest speculation in housing was at times when you were ruling in Galicia, and a young man had to spend 70% of his salary paying housing and now 31%. Do you think there's little politics on housing? So, Your Honor, today in Galicia it's easier to acquire a housing than when you were ruling, and today in Galicia we show what a social policy is. Social policy is to invest more in health care, more in education, more in social services, and that no one is left on the street as a result of a self-defense of mortgage, or rent-free. And that's why these 2,700 families know very well that the housing policy of the Galician People's Party was the most social policy these years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u19	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u20	Well, Mr. Feijóo, it seems to bother you that we talk about housing, then you want to divert your attention. Of course I couldn't miss the Bipartite, because that's the only argument you have. As you have no arguments, you have to resort to this issue machaconically. But you've been ruling for ten years. And, look, I don't know how you can tell me that they did it very well in rejection policies when, in the last semester, every day five people in this country stayed on the street and lived a self-defense. I don't know if that's a success for you. Of course, for us it is a failure, Mr. Feijóo and housing policies are the competence of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] Look, tell us about employment, that the best social policy is employment policy. I don't know what you can tell the 200,000 boys and girls who had to leave this country because there were no opportunities. And really, take a walk through Vigo, take a walk through the Coruña, take a walk through Santiago, and tell the young people and girls in this country today that they have better chances of accessing a residence than ten years ago, when what we see is like they're greatly increasing the prices of renters. And do you know what your contribution was? Paralyze public housing construction policy in rental, Mr. Feijóo. Don't take our hair off, because we're talking about a very important issue, such as the right to housing. The data is absolutely clarifying about the outcome you have made. See, in 2009 1,146 housing units were promoted. And the latest data published in the 2017 IGE, is that you promoted 5. While in the state the housing of public promotion represents almost 10% of what is sold, in Galicia it is 3.4%; that is, one third. And that's the best portrait of the paralysis you've ever done in this field. He criticizes the Bipartite but, of course, in three years you haven't made a single housing of public promotion for rent; and the Bipartite, in three years, more than a thousand. That's the difference between wanting to make social housing policy or simply wanting to defend speculators, which seems to be what the People's Party wants to do. [[Applause]] But, look, don't worry. You can continue to be installed in self-comprehensive, in selling us that country of the thousand wonders, but by 2020 the Welsh and Welsh will tell you in the polls what they think about the outcome you've made in the social housing policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u22	Your Honor, I am trying to answer your proposals. You talked about health, you talked about cuts. That's the permanent mantra, that's the mantra. And it always bothers you to talk about BNG, but BNG rules in some places — in a few, but governs — and governs housing policies in Galicia as well. And when BNG ruled, 70% of a young man's salary was to be devoted to housing, and now it's 30%. That's a big difference between your housing policies and our own. You're talking about defiance. Can you tell me exactly if there's a community that has put more measures against the defeats than Galicia? Doce: donation in payment of protected housing, reallocation of affected by mortgage executions, judicial clearance of evictions, Reconduce Program, Rehabita Program, Sareb housing for social services, agreement with the People's Valedor to care for housing problems; banks committed to join in agreements to make housing available, if applicable; social rental bonus; empty housing census; free legal advice and empty housing program for social rent. Summary: 2,470 families that we have avoided their mortgage or rental defeat. And you come here saying that nothing has been done. But what do you mean? Any defect that exists in Galicia can be notified to the Galician Union, anyone! All those people you know why aren't they notified? All that's happening, why don't nobody notify you? So, Mrs Pontón, what are you talking about when it turns out that the proposals of the Galician Union are clear — good for rent, social bonus and we continue to work? I repeat again the subject of effort, and I know you don't care. But you come here talking about housing when a young man from Greece had to devote 73% of his salary to buying a housing when you were ruling and now it's 31%. It's a sufficiently clear indicator. Look, let's keep working. Fifty-five thousand families have benefited from the rehabilitation aid of the Galician Union, 55,000 homes! You're obsessed with building houses. We're obsessed with rehabilitation. They're different policies. We want to rehabilitate Galician heritage, you want to continue building homes — and I don't know where — without rehabilitating the country's heritage. That's a big difference between those we love Galicia and those who simply use Galicia for politics. [[Applause]] But, look, Your Honor, we have a new order for the purchase of homes in historic centres for young people: between 12,000 euros and 10,000 euros per boy to acquire a housing in a historic center. We've just finished a new call for people who want to buy rural housing. You'd be surprised, we've run out of 100 percent of the call: 5,000 people are going to be benefited by help to acquire a rural housing. Don't you realize that it's not about making more housing? There are thousands and thousands of empty floors, thousands! We're not going to keep building houses, Your Honor, but we're going to help people acquire a housing, which is quite a different thing. [[Murmurs.]] In building houses, Mrs. Pontón, you should talk a little less. Look, Your Honor, I don't know exactly what you said. Honestly, I don't know if you assume that the People's Party has won the election again with 21 points of difference over the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u24	...or I don't know if you assume that they weren't able to pick up the tides and that the BNG came down again in these municipal elections. Do you really believe this? [[Murmurs.]] Are they going to teach us what to do now in 2020? Leave the Greeks alone! The Greeks spoke this Sunday and the Greeks are going to speak in 2020. Be careful, Mrs. Pontón, because after 2015 I heard everything, and then it came in 2016. And that's why after 2019 it's coming in 2020. But, look, come down half a point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u25	Quiet, please! Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u26	Yeah, yeah, don't worry. The nationalist calendar is the same as the global calendar, first in 2019 and then in 2020. [[Murmurs.]] You don't have any drawbacks, that's the way it is. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] But, look, you're very happy to be down in the municipal elections. We are absolutely committed to continuing to rise in the autonomous elections. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u27	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the implementation of an effective collaboration with local institutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u28	Question by Mr. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u29	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, having finished this long electoral cycle, I think it's time to take off the party shirt and put down the government T-shirt, the ruler. You — I know — did not present yourself to the general elections, to the municipalities or to the Europeans. But we all know that the results of all of them have a diaphragm message, and you know it too. The People's Party lost 200,000 votes in Galicia and political hegemony in general elections. He lost only in the cities, in the seven cities, 73,000 votes in those beginnings. He lost the European elections very clearly and left on the way to municipal power, concellers and mayors. You criticize the Galician Nationalist Block for the municipal results, but you have come down a lot more in those concerts, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] The message in Galicia is different. I repeat, the message in Galicia is a change. And you know why? [[Applause]] You were talking about basic services. For citizenship seems to be dissatisfied with its policy in relation to basic services, and yes, also in health care, especially in primary care, with the missing pediatricians, with the professionals who are not replaced in vacations, with the health centres that lack investments, who lack adequate staff; with school facilities with severe shortages, day care centres or promised residences that are not or are not opened, infrastructures that year after year are preserved. And they complain also because there is unequal treatment in the territory depending on the political color of some mayors and others. When you walk — you too — an empty Galicia — as it is said now — you perceive those efforts of so many people to build a minimum social fabric that allows you to keep life in deserting regions — there are some with less than 10 inhabitants per square kilometer, and the people you're talking to say that the Galician Union does not do enough. You must not limit yourself, this year and a little while left to finish the legislation, to manage with the highest electoral performance a favorable sociology in a Galicia that rubs out. That's not enough. He pushed his dynamism even though it didn't go well with him electorally, with dialogue, banishing clientelism, planning and vision of long lights. And in urban Galicia I think there's been a resounding rejection of your policies. He sent five former councillors to the local area and I have the impression that none of them will end up ruling those councils despite their involvement in the campaign, Mr. Feijóo. Do you recognize that failure as yours or will you point it to someone else's account? I think you should recapitulate, correct the policies and surely then you can succeed. The confrontation with the legitimate local representatives of these years has not given him any results. Raise vetoes and barriers, help to build and not block it, without sectarianism and taking into account social and political reality. I'm sure it'll work better this way, now that there's a new stage of government. He's got a little more than a year of legislation left. Take advantage of projects — the intermodal of the Coruña, the metropolitan areas, the neighbourhood of Residence in Lugo, at last, the 2021 Jacob of Compostela, the EDAR of Compostela or the health centre in Vilagarcia — or to encourage the MP to really put in place the residency policy that he wanted to promote in these years — to put some examples of changes in his relationship with local urban entities that will favour citizenship. It is in his hand to give that change, which is absolutely necessary. Take out the campaign shirt, be the ruler's shirt. Change and he'll hit. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u30	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. You give a press round of Mr. Leicega's interpretation of election results. Well, I think it's okay. We had several press rounds after the election night and now it has to have its own. It looks good to me. I — as I have had a press round and I have explained it the election night — want to congratulate all the candidates who won the election, whether they are from the party. I think that's what's in democracy. Allow me, as we are in Parliament, and there have been candidates who have come to the elections, because to congratulate those who have won. I have to congratulate Mrs. Beatriz Mato for winning in the Town Hall of Coruña, I have to congratulate José Manuel Rey for winning in the Town Hall of Ferrol, and I have to congratulate César Fernández for winning in the Town Hall of Ribadavia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That's, Your Honor, democracy as we understand it. [[Applause]] It's democracy as we understand it! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I understand, Your Honor, that being of the People's Party and winning is not worth it, and being of the Socialist Party and losing is worth it. [[Murmurs.]] That's the big difference between a party, the People's Party, and the Socialist Party. [[Laughter]] And that's why I join the People's Party and I regret that the Socialist Party thus interprets the election results. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But, finally, Mr. Leicega, today we saw some journalistic intervention by the Socialist Party mayors who lost the election and said, "We were reaffirmed in the polls." And it turns out that reaffirming in the polls, for the Socialist Party, is losing; and that winning in the polls, for the People's Party, is losing. [[Laughter]] So, Your Honor, as you will understand, I believe in democracy and believe in the intelligence of my country, which has made us continue to govern. Look, Mr Leicega — with all due respect and without underestimating the triumph that you have had in the European elections — in the municipal elections, despite all this that we have to do with acts of contrition, etc., I remember that you have lost the municipal elections. Yes, sir, they won practically all over Spain and lost in Galicia. They won in all autonomous communities and lost in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Either here we're better or you're worse, I don't know exactly which of the two proposals looks good to you. [[Laughter]] Now, if you think that we are in line with the election results, then, of course, not; for this reason, Mr Leicega, humility—believes me—always results. [[Murmurs.]] When we won the 2015 municipal elections, but we didn't get the results we wanted, we got to work. And it didn't turn out bad in 2016. That's why we're going to continue working with the municipalities, no doubt. So much so that, with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, for these four years, we have reached more covenants than ever. For example, in the health centres, in maintenance, in the Bipartite zero health centres paid the Galician board — title of the municipalities. We are already paying 111; for example, by financing the peace courts; for example by financing 50% of the fire stations with the local administration; or, for example, by creating an extraordinary fund for mergers; or, for example, by putting an environmental fund of EUR 90 million for all municipalities with wind farms; or, for example, in spite of the crisis and economic recession, by maintaining the local cooperation fund. Mr. Leicega, look, to collaborate, two need to cooperate. That's why I'm surprised you're talking to me here about nothing but the neighborhood of the residence in Lugo. But don't you know we've been without a license for ten months to build in Lugo and we're waiting for that? They say we were granted the license on the last election day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u33	I hope so. But, Mr. Leicega, it seems to me very well to read the Socialist Party in the municipal elections. But I would like to remind you — a little bit about the House — that there are three Members here who have presented themselves to the elections, who have clearly won the elections and who deserve the respect of the House. I can't talk like that about any member of the Socialist Party and BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u34	Thank you. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u35	Yes, I'm surprised you didn't congratulate your honourable Member on the Vigo lists, and your advisor on the same lists. But I don't mean anything. [[Applause]] And, in any case, seeing the faces of the Members who congratulated me, it seems to me that they have a very deep joy. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Feijóo, I like you to continue to maintain that defense of the most voted list, as your correspondent Ayuso does, in Madrid, or Almeida. It is an example of coherence for the People's Party on these issues. [[Laughter]] No, I know you have a difference with the party's leadership in Madrid, surely very obvious. [[Murmurs.]] He didn't want to be a franchise player of the PP, he passed the coach, and he wants the one who's committed to playing in the extreme right-hand middle-center game, but, finally, he doesn't have the skills for that, what are we going to do with him? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] The movement shows itself moving, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. History cannot replace management. Look, you're assuming that they have a great commitment to strengthening public health, but in the previous plenary they voted against our proposal to increase health resources by 60 million, which was perfectly possible. And in this full vote against leading to the rule of law that would put into practice those that you are promising but that do not give concrete. That's why things need not only to be proposed, but rather to be put into practice with resources and regulations. With regard to non-urban Galicia, I believe you have the opportunity to modify the rules of subsidies to eliminate those express subsidies that privilege those who have better information than others and arrive before the summons. They can make a strategic planning that should bring to this House to ensure that there are services in the whole territory that are close to the population centres that exist in rural areas. That would be good news, change your policies. And in urban Galicia, indeed, I call for humility and dialogue; rather than trust, which goes in favour of the municipalities, starting by giving a letter to that Commission of the Marines that was attacking the autonomy of another institution and which, of course, you have stopped for no time. [[Applause]] They must give you an opportunity to collaborate with urban democratic institutions, unlocking metropolitan areas, setting up metropolitan transport consortia, with the necessary protagonistism of local authorities, and aligning with the solutions that mayors are giving in many places instead of blocking those solutions by partisan interest. Eliminate some barriers, promote institutional collaboration and rectify your policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u37	I don't know if the vice president, who is next to you, who has been in charge of fighting from the power of the Union the legitimate local powers in Pontevedra province, is the most appropriate for that task. The results must have been rectified as well. Don't waste your time, correct it and it'll work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u38	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u39	Mr. Leicega, you will understand that we have a different vision. That's why you are currently in the Socialist Party. That's why I engage in a party that believes deeply in democracy. Wait a minute! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want to let me talk, it would be good. The Socialist Party, of course, also believes in democracy. That's where we could be! What happens is, when you say that the candidates of the People's Party who won the elections must not be happy, it's a nuance we don't share. Because you're going to have mayors with lower percentages of votes, for example, to which the People's Party candidate in Ferrol won. And I think that should produce some respect for such an old party as the Socialist Party. And that you don't respect that candidates who win deserve recognition from the House are, at least, an antidemocratic tic, inappropriate of you. Yes, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] Whether you mock a candidate who gets the absolute majority less a seat, or another candidate who wins in the city of Coruña, or another candidate who wins clearly in Ribadavia, who were the ones who showed up, Your Honor, because it's an inappropriate tic. Look, let me quote, "He made it a journey without return"; "In Galicia a change of political cycle is opened"; "These elections leave us the Chair of the Board." Mr. Leicega, this is not what you said last night in 2019. No, no, this is literal, that's what you said after the 2015 municipal elections. You were a candidate in 2016. [[Murmurs.]] You know what happened. Don't underestimate the Greeks, they know perfectly well how they vote, who they vote and what it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why, Mr. Leicega, you don't underestimate the intelligence of the Greeks and let the Greeks elect the President of the Union next year in 2020. I'm telling you, ma'am, that what's happening in the year 2020 we haven't met yet, you're about to see. But if you were a little more humble you would have more possibilities. The Greeks like humility more than pride. And that's why we're humble even when we win, Mr. Leicega. I insist, with all the disaster that says we are, you've lost the election, and the People's Party in Galicia was the party that came down from the whole People's Party in Spain, at all! And the People's Party of Galicia in the general elections was what got better results from the entire People's Party in Spain. That's why they should be respectful of the Greeks who voted, who are not mistaken. Look, it must be acknowledged that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia has a better mark in European elections than the Galician Socialist Party in municipal elections. That's obvious. That you in Galicia have achieved better results in the general and European elections, we can't deny it; now that you have lost the municipal elections, please, don't deny it. They do not deny it because, if not, they are simply denying that we are in the Galician Parliament and that you laugh at the candidates of the People's Party who won in the municipal elections. And you mustn't, Your Honor, you mustn't. [[Applause]] Look, since we got to the board this year, what we transferred to the municipalities, between the Local Cooperation Fund, the Environmental Compensation Fund, etc., is more than 450 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] That is, what we transferred to the councils in 2018 is more than the full budget of three councils, the Environmental and Living Council, the Council of Culture and Tourism and the Council of the Sea. To say that we do not cooperate with the municipalities of Galicia, when it turns out that the transfers we make to the municipalities are more than three departments of the Autonomous Community, it is simply to ignore the assumptions or come here to make a press conference on the municipal results.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u41	It was EUR 1,100 million in supply and sanitation without competence; we have just put 28 million for the first time for cleaning in rural areas, exclusive competence of the municipalities according to the law of fires approved by the Bipartite. Mr. Leicega, we will continue to work for Galicia, you have no doubt. Of course, we will continue to work for Galicia that we respect the election results. And, I tell you, Mr. Leicega, to win in three provinces of four, to win in three four or draw with the Socialist Party in number of cities as a most voted list, you interpret it as a great victory of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. All right, we interpret the results of the municipalities as a great message to continue working towards the autonomous elections of the year 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u43	And then, Mr. Leicega, we will value those results. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u44	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, in this case point 4, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the development of a shabaril management plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u45	No amendments were tabled. Go ahead, Mr. Rivas, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, firstly, to thank an illustrious speaker in this House for the concern and help given to this humble Member, who was not on the right track. You know that I intended to be mayor and that — no disregard for myself — I intended to live from my pension, as I had done two months and two days in 2015. That illustrious speaker described the past 23 in Boimorto my position and that of the BNG in the face of the serious problem of the brave pig — with forgiveness from their faces — so that they wouldn't vote for me. He lied, yes, but it was piously, to do me the favor and so be able to continue as a member of parliament paying this salary that will surely make me rich in the year and peak that I have left. Because you will know that the demeanored position, with an oratory art never heard in Boimorto, was expressed in such a way that we, the BNG, were against the barbarian beatings and that I also loved this species so deeply that it even enjoyed it until it got to the ecstasy when from the car it saw them dig and destroy crops or meadows, or twisting on the shores of the roads. Having achieved such a noble purpose of helping to confuse and get away from the wrong path, I'll try to put things in their place. Because the story is serious, any of us in this House who walk home for the countryside of this country, realize that the first concern people have is not unemployment, no, it's not even social assistance. It's the brave pig, because it's destroying the illusions of the people who plant, the people who lay potatoes, the people who throw forage corn, the people who have a professional garden. I can tell you about business groups that have losses of 34,000 euros up to now on 9 acres planted in meadows, planted in raspberries, planted on... and raised 4 acres of 9 acres. It is serious, ladies and gentlemen. Batidas? Beats. But it's just that you reduce the solution to the problem to the beats and it's not there. Because you know what's going on? Look, to hit the brave pig, you need at least eight hunters, and Thursdays don't get together. To hit the brave pig, you need to have the spirit of killing that bug and ending that bug that is currently a bug that's destroying us from within. You see, Thursdays don't celebrate most of the beatings, lost due to lack — 90%, according to statistics made — of environmental agents. They do things like waiting with archers to kill only the males. You tell them how at night an archer distinguishes a male from a female. Of course these hunting moratoriums are established for those females who have a baby. We're talking about a plague, a plague right now, and you don't recognize it. Gaiolas? You talk about cages, that most of them have to install those affected and have to pay for their use. But paying for your use means you have to pay for capture management as well. And capture management is not turkey moco. Capture management includes euthanizing captures with veterinary personnel. Damage. Waiters... do we know what I am, Miguel? Waiters in the meadows that raise up land and cause the silos not to be destroyed; that the bags of the silos carry land and therefore be not edible. We're talking about people who are using drones for their crops, both in plow crops and in vegetable crops, drones to be able to fertilize the potatoes, drones to be able to fertilize the garlic. They're using advanced technologies and they're about to quit. We're talking about self-consumption agriculture, which is being blown up. I repeat, did you guys go home and look at those well-prepared gardens, fixed on those tracks so well-conditioned by the wisdom of our people and noticed that they're desperate? Or didn't they talk about it and talk about other things? The Council tells us about self-defense, and therefore he's the same farmer, the same farmer, who has to defend himself from this plague. The help came in 2016, and they're back in 2019. Why? Because it was election year. But the help, the help orders, I'm a joke, a real ridicule to the people. Look, look at the CAP — those who grow a professional garden do not have a CAP — and at the Reaga — those who grow a professional garden are not registered. The rental contracts must be fixed — there are no rental contracts in the professional garden in many cases. What do we ask? We asked for a management plan. And a management plan means taking the bull by the horns and doing a programmed and studied action, millimetres, with population studies, with cages, with scientific actions done Finally, the barbarian — and this wishes to deny what has been said about our position — is experiencing a demographic explosion in recent decades, for a process that seems to be common in much of the European territory. The species, by its biology, if it stands out for something, is by its great capacity for adaptation, being benefited by the strong transformation of the mountain uses and its abandonment. When the pier finds favourable conditions, it can successfully create, including females who are less than one year old, when they already exceed 30 kilograms of weight, being so prolific that by labor they take out an average of four cubs, even though these rates increase as much food as they have. This surprising birth strategy can be benefited by an intensification of hunting in a phenomenon of ecological birth compensation; the highest mortality increases its reproduction. Experts point out that this may be happening with the boar, since the intensification of cinematics facilitates access to reproduction of a larger number of younger females. This high reproductive capacity, along with the phenomenon of the compensation of ecological birth, favored by the favourable conditions that now emerge from our mountains, helps to recover in very short periods of time populations that were thought to be almost nullified or very reduced by the action of the hunt, and this generates an endless surrounding situation, with which one would be explaining that the number of Jabaris does not go down in spite of such a hunt. According to experts, beatings alone do not reduce the problem, pointing out that what is being done is a real nonsense and detonating other serious environmental problems about the fauna of the territory. Over the next several years, they have increased the number of beats and more and more prolonged periods to perform them. So between the years 2011 and 2015, he was hunting an average of nearly fifteen thousand boar a year, a number that tripled the situation a decade ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is necessary to take the shabaril seriously. We believe that it is necessary to take the boar seriously because it is destroying the little that is left of agriculture and, above all, it is — it is the greatest disaster — inviting people not to grow, it is inviting the herdsmen to throw forage corn only on certain plots and it is inviting them to give up, and we don't need it. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the order of prevention aid has been criticised here and in the Commission 7th hard by the opposition and the questions we raised have not been answered in time or in form. You think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no cultivation of beauties in Galicia, there is no cultivation of beauties, and the aid order envisages that cultivation as likely to be prevented in its damage. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a problem of a country, serious, enormously serious, of our field, of our battered field, which can go to abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen, I think so. We need to go back to the craftsmanship, which is going back to the prevention order, and we need to take the help tips seriously and we need to take seriously a shabaril management plan, seriously, and really means scientifically designed, consulted everyone who can think about this problem and seriously for a country who wants to be serious and who wants to have a serious future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Now we're going to greet the students from Felipe de Castro, from Noia -- they're students and 6th graders -- and their teachers, who are with us today. Welcome to Parliament. And now you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Ms. Patricia Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u48	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the students at Girl's School. Welcome to the house of the people of Galicia, which is the Parliament of Galicia. I hope that you will have a good image of this Parliament; I am sure that Hyxin will take it outside and thanks to Hyxinio; I hope that they will also take it from the Members and from the Members to whom we are to take this initiative. Because we are few, very few, very few, and the boar is not something that we have to worry about, especially in that rural area that seems to have been the voter of the People's Party and that President Feijóo just said that it was exactly where they won the municipal elections. Well they don't care too much, because this was the legislation of the countryside, and because we're going to rehabilitate I don't know how many homes in the countryside, because it's for the boars to live in, because there aren't too many people who live right now in the countryside. We are going to support this non-law proposal from the BNG Group — as it is not! — because it has two points that we believe are essential. The first: it is essential to remove that December order last year, which we believe to be a partial solution, is a patch, for something that — it just needs to see the results — does not work. There's still a barbarians, every day the population is growing, and that means that this order for the prevention of damage to wild fauna is not practically for nothing, especially because, besides, you don't negotiate, you don't talk, you don't dialogue before with any sector that's working on the country's foot every day, also to prevent the boar from continuing to reproduce. And then they take orders like those engineers who make roads from their office, without going down into the territory, and there are bridges where they don't have to appear or straight-line roads in Galicia, when we're more of curves here. Well, exactly the same. You should talk more to sectoral and professional agricultural organizations to explain to them what's really going on in the territory. And there's also a need for a shabaril management plan, because the control model doesn't work. If it worked, I wouldn't be here the spokesman of the BNG Group asking for this non-law proposal. And you just have to get out on one of the Galician roads with a car so you can cross us a boar. Not only do we have a problem in the field, we have a huge, very worrying road safety problem. In fact, there is assurance in Galicia that they are superior precisely because we have a problem with the boar and there are many traffic accidents. There's more insecurity than anywhere else, there's even more people's uncontrollable, more damage and important economic losses. That means that the plan is indispensable and that this order last year has not been used for anything. We believe that now is the time for the Rural Council to call on a working table to find solutions, but really solutions. We also lack the wolf management plan, we don't have it either, we've asked for it since 2011 and here we are, we're still the same. And I'm going to give you an example. For the wolf in Asturias they have a special plan, also for the bear. We don't have it either, we asked for it. Because Spain has the largest population of wolves from all over Western Europe. They are mostly in Asturias, Galicia and Cantabria. In Asturias, they radiograph examples, because sometimes, when there are wolf attacks, you have to know where they are and, when there are wolf attacks, you have to know also whether they are the same attacks on the same wolves, if they are the same individuals. They do DNA tests every time there's an attack. They do technical analysis on whether or not population control is proceeding. The control of the boar and the wolf through the hunt is not worth it, because, if it were worth it, there would be no more population of the boar, as it is being done. That means you can't use hunting, as you can't use hunting to control foxes, as you're doing. No scientific studies, we need scientific studies. And, in fact, in Asturias, the control of the wolf is done by the infantry of the Principality, not through the hunt. It would be good to copy others who do it better than we do and maybe here today we wouldn't be debating this non-law proposition. The BNG Group has our absolute support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u50	Good morning to all of you. A week ago I won at the Cannes festival in France, the award of Oliver Laxe's "What Burns" jury, which I was doing -- yet I haven't seen the film, which is also made in German -- a print of what rural solitude is, the abandonment of rural life. He, Oliver Laxe, in an interview, said rural people live a holocaust. You can't do any worse and you can't have any less vision. But you know, culture people are usually dangerous reds, catastrophics and little lovers of free market culture. Well, that's what he said, as John Berger had already said before, and as the data from this country say. I mean, it's one more, one more symptom, of the policies of extermination of a culture, of extermination of rural. It is a further example of the abandonment, of the desloyal, of the incompetence of the People's Party for decades of non-policies of the Conseilaria do Medio Rural, which can be seen in the damage to the wild fauna and its lack of control; in the fires, where we spend one out of three euros of the budget of the Conseilaria do Rurale to try to extinguish fires; in the demographic, devastating data, in this country, of the abandonment of population nuclei; in which more schools, more services are needed, because there is no longer any population to use them; in the dramatic loss of useful agricultural land, where Galicia already has about 20%; in a country that has a negative food balance of about one billion euros a year, that is to say, we have to buy out nearly one billion euros of food that we are not able to produce in a country where land is abandoned. It's the model implemented by a People's Party that governed most of the years of this democracy in Galicia what you see, and you can see it too. Is there a problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with the damage of the boar? Yes or no? There's a problem. Tell us: Is there a problem? Yes or no? But there's a problem that we don't even know about real and effective information, we don't know certain data from the boar population. That's to start with. And then we have no answers. We don't even know a strategy to fight this problem, we don't know any strategy. As the previous spokespersons have told me here, there are farms that are suffering damage that endanger their future viability, there are farms that have decided not to plant corn in a country where they are told that more food and less import is needed and instead stop planting corn at this time, where less depends on the import of thought, because they are destroyed by all the boar. And there are farms that can't even opt for the help offered by the Galician Union. There is a lack of dialogue and sensitivity to the huge agricultural and livestock sector, in this case too. The proposals for improvement of the aid orders that the affected people said were not listened to. I don't know if they think that the livestock and farmers come to make demands and claims or demonstrations for sport. I think not, I think they're the ones who best know the problem, and at least you have to listen to them and you have to make an order of help that counts with your opinion, which you haven't done. Or if they get more money and if they choose to really compensate for all the damage caused by the boar, which would multiply the budget for aid, because not even those they receive are compensated for the damage they do, or if they go to a policy of rebalancing and control of the population. And if you go to this, which is the most reasonable, control of the population, we want to know what is the strategy the Greek Government has to do with it. I don't know her, I don't know her, and if that's what you're implementing, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, it's the strategy of failure, the strategy of not doing anything, the strategy of incompetence and total insensitivity. It's exactly the disarrangement of a Middle Rural Council, which is increasingly useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u51	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Prado Patiño. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Mr. Prado Patiño. Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And good morning at the school of Noia, welcome to the Galician Parliament. This GNP that we are dealing with here today, at the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, in the explanatory statement, what we are asking is that this order be withdrawn and another one be published, right? I think, Mr. Rivas, with all the affection I have for you, that this is a little dizzy. We've been in this order for almost six months now, the order meets all the requirements, the order meets all the ends and the order, man!, you can always get better, of course you can get better. Right now, we're going to think that in the middle of the party changing order, when we've got a thousand five hundred applications made, five hundred collected, because it wouldn't make sense. From the People's Party, we are aware of all the damage caused by the boar. Home!, I see that Mrs. Vilan, with all due respect, says that in Asturias they can hunt down the wolf officials; here you cannot hunt the wolf. I mean, we respect a little too what are the hunting oaks of every county and all of Galicia, you know? I'm going to make a mention of the values paid to farmers and those affected. I think it's the prices on the market. If you have an injured animal, euthanasia is 75 euros; a pig for example twelve months, 380 euros; a twelve-month calf, if it is native-born, 870 euros and, if it is a pint, 579; a two-year-old, Welsh blonde, 1,200 euros; and a milk frison, 1,600 euros. In the damage to the boar, corn for grade is paid 0.16 euros/ square metre, 0.14 euros/ square metre if it is forage for silo; potato, 0.44 euros/square metre; and cute, Mr Rivas, to which you mention, as well as potato. The command includes all the lines of help that you've been claiming in this explanatory statement, which are as follows. The compensation for barbaric damage, with EUR 811,000, increased by 35% compared to the previous year. The damage caused by the wolf is EUR 350,000, which is 25% more than in the previous year. And prevention has 300,000 euros. Since the German Government we are convinced that prevention is fundamental and we believe that the best defense against attacks is to provide preventive measures that help us avoid them, and that is why this order has been published. As for the characteristics of the fences, the bases and aids are based on technical documents commissioned by the council, included in a specific study that we have done to assess the effectiveness of the different methods of prevention. As far as the CAP documentation is concerned, we are informed that they have nothing to submit, as long as they allow their consultation by the Board. It's data that works in the administration's power. And finally, in the justification for self-consumption farms, given that they are not registered in the Reaga, it is essential that the beneficiary accept the measurement of the land. I think it's all very clear, because the bases include requirements marked by law, which are essential in any call, and are consensual in the sector. Let's talk about wolf management. The wolf, by Royal Decree 297/2008, we know that it is a prominent part of Galician natural and cultural heritage. He is the king of the mountain; that is, he has no natural enemies. Here in Galicia is part of 30% of the country's territory, and there are about eighty-five orders, and the habitat has changed, it's got less mountain, well, it's got more mountain — sorry — since it was the evil of the mad cows. With reference to the management of the use of the boar species, Union has taken steps to improve tether management, improve management of free hunting areas and improve species management within certain natural spaces. As you know, the natural enemy of the boar is the wolf. Well, the boar eats at all, breeds, reproduces very quickly, has six to ten cubs, and in Galicia there are about a hundred and sixty thousand boar. I want to make a punctualization to this whole House -- and maybe there wakes up a little with the spokesman of En Marea -- of that abandoned mountain, no; profitable mountain, yes; profitable Welsh rural, yes. If we have less abandoned mountain, for surely we have less wild fauna and less forest fires. We know that the German mountain is private. Out of every four inhabitants in Galicia one is owner, either in title or in municipality. But the mountain needs to be taken care of and the hill costs money. The impotent one is to stop the abandonment, to make rural Galician more sustainable. Yesterday, the Middle Rural Councilman was here and gave a talk about what the Galician Forest Plan will be... — sorry for the expression — — — that's right. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I think the future of Galicia, rural, is that the profitable mountain, for less wildlife. Now we see the Jabaris; one day we see him in Sada, another day we see him in Bergondo, another day we see him in Lugo, another day we see him in Coruña. Well, what about the boar? There are protected areas. That's why it's contemplated in the tecores now, by the Hunting Law, even making beatings in those areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u54	With this, for the sake of Galicia, for the sake of the Greek countryside, we will make a great deal of agreement that will be this Galician forest plan, and I think that, if we succeed, it will be beneficial to all the Greeks and to the Greek rural environment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u55	Thank you, Mr. Prado Patiño. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. We asked you to withdraw or make a bug correction, but this is announced in January already, that is, before the problem gets fat, because now the problem is fat. We didn't dwindle the partridge. We are simply seeing a truly brutal evolution of the problem; that is, we are finding that there are people — you know, sir — who are thinking about resigning. There's a business group that's thinking about resigning. Look, a nine-hectare business group, with plasticized rhombus mesh and poles in diameter of forty-five, all two meters high, with perimeter closure with three threads of electric shepherd and two dogs, dedicated to the cultivation of kiwi, plows and raspberries, broke everything, entered and entered daily, and carried them four hectares, four acres of nine. Damage and loss are enormous. Because, besides, these people, the harvest, as you know, speaks to it and has penalties if certain distribution chains don't come out. It's just that the problem is very serious. I'm no longer talking to you about the gloves you and I know you're making corn; those are already cut off, because you're taking them away. I'm not talking to him about the potato strips or the country's corn mills anymore. Besides, the pig knows where he's going very well: he goes to the country's corn first, which is not stupid. Of course, it's true, because, in addition, the ability that the pig has to bravely adapt and overcome the traps that are set upon it is tremendous, and that must be considered. How? You have to consider it in a management plan. And the management plan has to be done scientifically, they can't be measured at random, now beaten, now I don't know that, now... they're erratic measures. Because, really, I have nothing against the angry pig — on the contrary, it is a precious bug, when you cross it and it doesn't give you in the car, of course; when you cross it and you see it there on the side of the road crib, on the edge of the night or already being very night—I have nothing against it, but at this moment it's a plague. I don't have anything against flies or mosquitoes, but when they leave you thirsty, you start thinking about it. But what is in danger is the future of this country's agriculture. And stop rhetoric. I mean, it starts like this. We're not going to wait for the country to be fully developed, etc., but it's now when we have to stop it from developing. That's the problem. Look, actually, 012 right now doesn't pass the environmental agents to half the parts, it doesn't go half the parts. Take note and let the counsellor know. It doesn't happen, especially those that are private, primary and private with little surface, or companies that are the first time. They don't even call the municipalities themselves. Please! I mean, the problem is serious, very serious, tremendously serious. And we only ask for common sense, which is what we always ask of them. Target resources to address a serious plan. They announced one in 2014, announced another in 2016. They had up to allocation; I don't remember if it was 1.7 million, 2.7 million, I don't remember -- a figure of those big -- and they didn't do anything. You don't know about the University of Vigo. You don't know anything. You take care of everything, because they don't know what to do. Then do it. There are people in the country willing to advise them, there are people in the country, sit with her, people affected, people who understand, experts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u58	They sit down with them and make something serious, they don't wear shorts and grab other places, which you notice when the pretty ones appear in Galicia. Really, it's like crying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u59	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the demands of the Platform for Families with Functional Diversity of Santiago de Compostela concerning the need to increase the number of residential squares of direct care for people with functional diversity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u60	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u61	To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative really belongs to my colleague, Mrs Verao, and, because she could not attend today, because I have the honour to present this initiative, since it is a matter such as the needs of direct care squares for people with functional diversity, whether in the Compostela district or elsewhere, because it is a priority for me, as a Member, as a person and for any of our parliamentary group. In fact, a full claim of families with people with functional diversity of Santiago has been raised, and that is precisely why, because it is a priority, even though this theme, this issue, has already been dealt with in Commission 5a, in the relevant committee, with the objective that this issue should be given the priority that must be given to it and that urgent need for people who are far less disadvantaged than the common people who have problems in our country. That's why the need for more residential squares for people with functional diversity, with specific needs, around Santiago de Compostela. This, in fact, is not our demand, but a demand from the ANPA of the EEC Barcia and other social entities of the Town Hall of Compostela, who come to the attention of people with functional diversity beyond the age of 21, when the period of schooling ends. The Association of Mothers and Parents of the Barcia Special Education Centre, together with the families of people with autistic spectrum disorders and students of the Special Education Centre López Navalón, Pedroso, now grouped into a platform, have been claiming for years — not days, years — public squares of integral residential care for people with functional diversity in the district of Santiago, because the lack of these is dramatic, not only in this region, all over the country. But, as we have to go, today we want to treat this region in a unique way. We have the examples, in fact, of more situations like these all over the country, such as that of the CAPD of Ourense, with the commitment of 2016 and still of May 28, waiting for the bidding of the promised work for this month; or the promised center of continuity for the student of Infanta Elena, in Monforte. The lack of accurate attention to the needs of young people and girls with functional diversity in Galicia has been disenchanted in the case of the EEC Mary Marine, whose staff has been demanding more human resources, better facilities and a proper diet adapted to the needs of these people for years or years. These luxurys are asked for as an adaptation that is tailored to the needs of these people. In fact, he had to get out of this scandal on TVG and on television -- well, on TVG he didn't, of course, go out on the TVG, this doesn't come out -- national so that Mr. Feijóo would dedicate a few words to them. We shall see what is left of the request of the report which the President of the Union has allegedly made to resolve this problem — which has been so shameful and scandalized the whole state, not only the Greeks and the Greeks — and what measures will be implemented in view of what Mr Chicote has denounced. We do not have Parliament, we have now not only in this case, but in other dining rooms — that is why I quote Mr Chicote. And now it's reported, not only here, because here we are numbed, now in national channels the neglect of the Government of Beijóo. The point is that the Union does not meet the full needs of this vulnerable population and the proposals and demands of the Family Platform with Functional Diversity of Santiago de Compostela and its surroundings arrived this same week by letter to all groups — which you will know because you have arrived at them. Among other matters, something as simple as a meeting and which promotes debate in this body, in this Parliament. The minimum sensitivity demands that all groups — including the People's Party — assume this reality and give a boost to the agreements we have reached, because we have already reached agreements that are not being complied with. Because unfortunately, the needs of people with functional diversity are not in the agendas as urgent. You say yes, but at the time of truth, the Executive doesn't put them in the emergency schedule. The demand of the ANPA of the EEC Barcia is to address the situation of children once they have spent 21 years in the Compostela region, and so they have since 2017 with concentrations in front of San Caetano, in front of the Unity of Galicia. Families suffer a double burden: to care for people with functional diversity and to provide them with the resources they need and, in time, the effort to fight for the rights that should already correspond to them. They can't be here today, but they're waiting for this debate and they're paying attention to this debate and calling for a political agreement to give impetus to the needs of their children and their children and those who are in this situation with functional diversity. The failure to have a specific centre of attention to functional diversity in the Compostela district causes situations of either lack of attention to people with functional diversity or the lack of reconciliation possibilities in their families. So, even when they can find a square in a center, the change of environment is difficult for people with intellectual disabilities, and, on the other hand, there are many families who have to request a square with a minimum advance of three or four years — which I don't know if this seems very normal to you — because of their shortage. And everything is obstacles, at any rate, when maximum facilities should be given to such situations. The student of the Special Education Center Barcia, Santiago de Compostela, when he does not have a center of continuity, immediately after the educational stage, being 21-year-old boys and girls, lose their socialization — which is dramatic for them — they lose their social environment of friends and companions and suffer a halt in their educational evolution, which is all contrary to the integration and equality of these kinds of people. Having stable and proximity resources is essential to maintain the educational evolution of these people. That's why one of the specific proposals is that in Cegadi residential uses are launched in a stable way also for people with intellectual disabilities, as well as the day-to-day downtown squares. Cegadi's opening promises — which we have already dealt with in various committees — to use direct care with people of functional diversity because they have been delayed with several excuses: the Union claims that the delay in opening the direct attention centre is due to the delay in a transfer of EUR 55,000 pending from the Imserso and the necessary put into operation of the two bodies that depend on the State, by virtue of a convention signed between the Union and the State. Even so, Junta promises again that in 2019 she will start to bid the material for this center's start-up and promise that where it depends on the board will be in operation before the end of 2019, obviously she had already promised it herself and opened the Cegadi, first, in the first half of 2017, then, at the end of 2017, and we're still exactly the same. In fact, the Comprehensive Action Plan for People with Disabilities from 2010 to 2013 of Junta foresees the opening of Cegadi in 2013, we are in 2019. However, this complex is not even mentioned in the Galician Strategy on Disability 2015-2020. Cegadi, a center theoretically designed to be an integral center of attention to people with functional diversity since December 2017, is open to certain uses, hosting teams of the Social Policy Council, EVO and Funga, a situation that they use to justify that the centre is already open. But their main uses are the truth, they're not running, they're open without their main uses in operation. The start of the project is in 2007 and the total cost of its construction exceeds 13 million euros. Twelve years later, the main necessity, which is the specific residential care squares for people with functional diversity, is still not covered — and we've already spoken in committee, it's not just something we're saying now. The forecast of direct care squares is 162:60 for functional, emotional, psychosocial; 70 for training; and 32 for residence, very necessary for the defendant's deficit in the district of Santiago, but insufficient for the residential squares. In addition, families were informed that these squares would be temporary, with which they would not bring the stability necessary to maintain this inclusive educational process that these people need. That's what's essential. The model of care for people with functional diversity and great need for support cannot be sent to many kilometres of their families, to hour travel by families and by people with delicate health conditions: recurrent epileptic crises, luxurious chairs, pain in mobilization by previous surgeries, pronounced scoliosis, frequent hospitalizations..., a series of issues that are fundamental to living and that I do not receive to try to justify that they are not cared for. They buy proximity resources if it is necessary and desired a direct focus in the centre. This importance of proximity to the resource is also recognized by the law — as the Platform points out in its letter — under Royal Decree 1/2013 of 29 November, so the recast text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Social Inclusion — Article 13 — is approved, which states, "Public administrations will ensure the maintenance of appropriate care services through the coordination of resources and rehabilitation and rehabilitation services in the areas of health, employment, education and social services, in order to ensure the provision of services and programmes close to the environment where their life is developing." These people were educated in Santiago's special education schools, because their exceptional needs could not be met within the framework of measures to care for the diversity of ordinary centres in their areas of origin. And at 21 years of age, with mental age between 6 and 7 years of age, overcomes separate ones from the only contour that has so far identified them: their school. There are a number of questions that I have left in the innkeeper and I'll quote again in the replica. But we hope from our group and from this honourable Member that political agreement will be reached in this House on this issue. It's a fundamental question not only that you vote here, but that then you really get the goal in the emergency schedule of your government management, and not as you always do, that you vote and stay there on lost papers from the San Caetano building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u64	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The truth is that the public resources for people with functional diversity, specifically for those over 21 years of age, are in our autonomous community, and we have been branded the Government of Mr Feijóo. In this particular case, we speak of Cegadi, a pioneering vanguard center, over 8,000 square meters, with housing for people with disabilities, with classes for research as well. [[Applause]] Called in 2007, conceived by three public administrations governed by the Socialist Party, the Government of Mr. Touriño, who planned it and budgeted it through a collaboration agreement with the Government of Spain of Mr. Zapatero, and with the collaboration of the Town Hall of Santiago, with that mayor, Mr. Bugallo, to whom, today, also on behalf of the Socialist Group, I want to take the opportunity to congratulate on the results achieved this Sunday. [[Applause]] The Galician Disability Strategy itself from 2010 to 2013 envisaged that this centre should be completed in 2013. The case is that it didn't open in that year because of the low amount, the low budget allocation that served the Galician Union, and also the economic problems of the concessionaire himself in charge of building this center. In the Galician Strategy for Disability from 2015 to 2020, Cegadi did not appear, this centre disappeared. And, of course, they must have thought that, since it doesn't appear on the paper, we'd forget it. The case is that neither the PSdeg nor the families have forgotten a center that, as has already been said here, is priority and necessary for Compostela's comarca. We asked about this issue in October 2017 and in November 2018 at Commission 5a. Nor did the families forget — I said — because if they continue to manifest themselves, as has already been said here, so that this centre will start and not continue, as it has so far, simply devoted to social services offices to avoid paying rent costs. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of 2017 we were asking the Director General of Majors and Disability — then the Director General, today, Counsellor of Social Policy — when this centre was to be set up. I bring here today some of the phrases of your answer: "it's about to open" — we speak of the end of 2017; unless this honourable Member has a problem of space-temporal location, we're ending May 2019; "the put in operation has an immediate character, in the coming months all and we'll all be able to check how Cegadi opens its doors"; "Mr., don't laugh, the Cegadi will open before the end of 2017." These were the words of the then general director, now counsellor of Social Policy. The case is it didn't open. We ask again in 2018. But there the argumentary changed; of course, there was a new change; there was one who blamed Mr. Pedro Sánchez' Government. The reality is that the People's Party, the Government of Mr Feijóo, lied to these families. He lied to them the same way he does, and he's been doing it for years with Ourense families, the only province that doesn't have a focus on people with functional diversity for over 21 years. [[Applause]] In the case of Ourense we brought four times the PSdeG this theme, the opening of a center that is also a priority. There was a commitment — and I want to remember this picture — from all the political parties that we presented to the autonomous elections, that we signed the list heads, where we pledged that this center was 100% finished in 2018. [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows a photograph.]] Well, we're in 2019, there's not a single stone, the budget that's meant for this year is 600,000 euros, because you've rejected the PSdEG amendments, an budget that's equivalent to what's only used for cleaning in the City of Culture. That's what you care about these families, families that are going on -- and it's already said here -- real family dramas, with parents and mothers who have to travel hundreds of miles on weekends to be able to see their children and daughters, children who end up in acute hospitals because they have nowhere to go and they don't care about these families, detained in their homes without doing any kind of activity. These are the consequences of your policies, of Mr Feijóo's government policies. In this case we make an amendment, because, yes, we consider that all entities must be urgently received and, of course, also the Town Hall of Santiago, the new Government of Santiago, who will have to be present at that table to assess the needs of this region and also to put and start taking action. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, lying has a very high cost in politics, you don't believe them anymore. Good evidence is that the PSdeG was the most voted force in three municipalities where there was precisely one, there are these evidences of attention to people with functional diversity: the councils of Ourense, Santiago and Monforte, where the PSdeG, as I told them, was the most voted force. Also this Sunday were the municipal social policies of the People's Party's governments as well as those of the Galician Union. So stop messing around. As the People's Party Member will come here now, I am sure to blame the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who has been ruling twelve months, not twelve years, for the clarification.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u66	Stop throwing balloons out and get to work once and for all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to contextualize this debate. The Galician Union and the Imserso signed on 16 April 2007, a collaboration agreement for the construction in Santiago de Compostela of an equipment, the so-called Cegadi, for the care of people with physical disabilities, providing it with, indeed, contribution solutions to the development of new services, such as rehabilitation and physical and social maintenance programmes, housing programmes, social and labour integration programmes, community resources and training programmes. So we are, ladies and gentlemen, in front of a double-managed public centre: autonomous and state, you feel sorry for those who care. And anyone who wants to say that it is only autonomous mind, sovereign mind, and lying hardly comes to a serious and rigorous debate. [[Applause]] I am glad that the Socialist Party is now interested in this center, because when I was ruling in Santiago with that lord, Mr. Bugallo, it was not able to give him an urban solution and it was the Government of the People's Party, Mrs. Blanco, which in the Town Hall of Santiago gave the urban solution to the Cegadi. I am glad that you now in your amendment incorporate the Town Hall of Santiago. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You will be welcome to have Mr Bugallo worry about something he didn't care about until the People's Party's Government entered the Town Hall of Santiago. Yes, Mrs. Blanco, that's a reality. So I regret that it is only interesting that the Government of Santiago is what gets into the debate and I regret, Mrs. Blanco, that you do not introduce, as if we introduced us, the Government of Spain, which is what has to give the budget allocation so that these residential squares are a reality. Don't lie to families and don't tell them it's not the responsibility of Mr. Sánchez's socialist government that these quintuple thousand euros that are budgeted in the budget that he did, by the way, the Government of Mariano Rajoy for 2018, and that's still on, because it's extended to 2019. It's good that Mr. Sánchez and the Socialist Government come with aggravation to Galicia. Social policy has been put in a drawer more than clumsy, totally delineated, Mrs. Blanco. [[Murmurs.]] On April 18, 2018, Mariano Rajoy Brey's People's Party government signed a general protocol of action to promote and promote proposals for the development of the set of innovative and good practice programmes in Cegadi. That protocol, which signed the Imserso, in its fourth clause — Mrs. Blanco, I recommend that you read it, because it seems to me that you have not read it, or, if you have read it, you came here to lie, Mrs. Blanco — incorporates a commitment from the central government... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if anyone wants to say good-bye to this House talking because they leave him a shift to talk, but don't interrupt, please don't interrupt. The antidemocratic tics we've already met, but here it's like this, they first talk to each other and then they talk to each other, and you have to respect when someone speaks to them, even if they don't like what they say. [[Applause]] By the way, that is the commitment of the Imserso, five thousand euros, which has to put the Government of Spain to open these residential squares. Stop lying to families. And in the Government of Spain you rule. And, Mrs. Santos, you too, have approved Mr. Sanchez's investment in that motion of censure. Why do you come here to say that Galician Union? Why don't you go to Madrid asking for those five hundred thousand euros for these residential squares, which we really miss so much in the district of Santiago? Why do you guys come here to blame the whole Council of Galicia? Why do they come to lie and say that in 2017 the center wasn't open? Mrs. Blanco, the center opened in December 2017, you lied once again in this gallery. Since December 2017, which is open to Cegadi — he is there to check — many activities are being carried out. They're saying no. So look: attention to dependent people, legal protection, heritage and social protection, and now a development of an innovative project with Cogami, ladies and gentlemen. And they say in 2019 it won't open. So look, just on May 16, the selection process was opened to be part of this innovative project and during the first days of June, these services will begin to be received to their first users, who will be attended by a staff of eighteen people with a socio-health profile: physiotherapist, occupational therapist, social worker, neuropsychologist, speech therapist. And everything with whom? To Galician Union, which is the one that pays it, and the Government of the State, that so socialist, socialist, progressive, of Mr Sánchez, zero euros, Mrs Blanco, zero euros, Mrs Santos. You are ruling in Madrid and don't ask Mr. Sánchez to bring what he has to put into this center, to these residential squares that so badly miss us and that we absolutely agree that it has to be so. You said to meet with the Family Platform. In fact, the Council met. More importantly, you know that the director general is also part of these families, you know perfectly well; he has a special sensitivity with that center, ladies and gentlemen. So they don't say that the Galician Union neither contributes nor works nor has any sensitivity to the subject; it has a lot, not only politics, but, as I've just told them, even on a personal level. They say the platform letter had to read it. I read very carefully, I also spoke to them on the phone. I couldn't get them because they didn't fit their schedules, because even after the elections they couldn't fit their schedules. It's okay, we'll get it, but the Galician board has already received it, has already spoken to them and is already in touch with that platform. Di: promote the immediate put into operation of the residential centre project initiated by Aspanaes. Aspanaes has not started a residential centre project, it is an occupational center. And, on the other hand, to promote the immediate put into operation of the residential centre project initiated by Aspas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many squares you have Aspas? Well, look, it has 35 squares of residential center, 35 of which are arranged; it pays for Galician Junta. Day center, personalized care unit, has 30 squares, 30 concerteds; pays the Galician Junta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u72	Occupational Center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u73	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u74	Yes. All the squares, ladies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u75	Thanks, time's up. Thank you. The matter is clear. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] The theme is already clarified. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u76	Good morning. I'm actually going to start making a petition too, because they've ruled one another, they've ruled another, they've been, they've got responsibilities, they've got responsibilities, they've got other responsibilities, and in the middle of families with a problem that no one's solving for them. [[Applause]] It's really worrying that a known situation, a moved situation -- because we all meet families, who have the problem not now, but for a long time now -- is used in this way to not end up giving them a solution. I also recognize that I watch a little scandalized when it comes to squares and says it pays the board. Of course, it's a joint competition to attend to these people. And of course, if you come here like it's a merit to do what you have to do, you really put your hair a little bit high. I say so, quite clearly. And the truth is that the Family Platform with Functional Diversity in the Compostela area has been mobilized for years and months, the last months as a platform, before as ANPA and separately, concentrating, demanding, attempting to visualize the problem. What they ask for is dignity for the collective and residential squares. They ask that squares be increased in centers that can increase these squares, to give an answer. They demand that, in fact, after 21 years, there be compulsory schooling, from there they remain on the ground of no one. And what happens when certain groups are left on nobody's land? Let the families, if they can, throw it in the back. That's the solution they're giving them right now, that families, if they can, put the problem behind them. What are our families moving us? That with months in advance, before those 21 years go by, they have to ask for a place. What's going on? That, since there are almost no squares in Galicia, they can give it to you, in some cases, where? In totally distant places. What does that mean? Desarraigo. We're talking about people who are 21 years old physically, chronologically, but not mentally. So, that they have a socialization in a concrete environment, with companions and specific companions, who know their caregivers and caregivers, who have some physics that they are taking care of and that the solution they give them is either that they stay at home with their relatives, who in a very important part can't take them to residences for the cost they have — 200, 2,000 euros and so on — or give them places in totally remote areas. Problem of uprooting for the people affected and problem for the families: moving — if they have to — economic costs, people who have — as it has been said — a large level of hospital income, difficulties moving... in view of this, years demanding. Because today we are talking about the area of Santiago, but we could talk about many other areas; indeed, about Ourense, we could talk about Salnes, we could talk about many areas where this problem is shocking. What is the distress of families? What, when they don't have direct relatives, what's going to happen to these people? If there's no residential squares, that is, if they're not given an immediate solution and if they're not given a solution for the future. And what they're asking is what the law contemplates, and that they moved us in writing, in case we hadn't made it clear. What does the law say? That people with disabilities will be guaranteed an offer of services and programs close to the environment in which their lives are developed. Is it being fulfilled? No, no, no, no. What does the law say? That, even so, they must meet the basic needs of those persons with disabilities who find themselves both in a situation of special vulnerability — which is most of the cases — as in cases where they do not have a home or a family or when there are serious problems in order to ensure adequate family living. Is it being fulfilled? No, no, no, no. That's what this is about, that's what we should be dealing with, how not to delay this question. And I'm not going to get into the Cegadi theme anymore, because they're giving a date of whether in 2017, if in 2018, if in 2019... I'm saying it's fine to go and say it's said that it's going to open... No, it's finished since 2009. That is, ten years finished a center, some pressing needs and it turns out that you pay, I pay, you fix it, I solve it, I solve it, and I don't give you a reply — accusating, imperious, dramatic — to the families who have this situation, which we only address here above, because if we went to the bottom of what happens every day, we should certainly put our hair at the top. I will support the initiative and I hope, apart from supporting it, that something be done at once, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, thank the groups that support the initiative or offer a transaction or amendment to respect because of this initiative and the situation of these families. I'm quite shocked by the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party, although it's not an unpredictable thing to do either, because we've already spoken in Commission 1st too; so we knew a little where he was going to go. And, of course, to discharge the responsibility of lack of squares residences in the Compostela district in the Ministry, apart from being a lie, it's an undoubted. The competence of attention to people with functional diversity, yes, it's from Joining, it's from Joining. The responsibility of the system's shortcomings lies with the board. Because it's not this particular case, it's a structural problem, of all the public services in the Union, not just in this case. And of course, the State has a share of responsibility, especially with regard to funding. We have more examples, such as the Dependency Act. We, of course, have been negotiating with the Government of the State from our confederal group precisely to increase the budgetary shares in this issue; that is, we suspect not to ask for money for these issues are not, and it comes out in all the press headlines, so we, in that, our responsibility fulfills it. We have to try to pressure the Government to do what it has to do in relation to social services, minimum inter-professional wages, pensions, etc.; quite the contrary as Mr. Rajoy, as far as they're angry. Of course, what can't be said is lies: in fact, Cegadi has been finished since 2009 and has been open doing some minimal and administrative tasks since 2017, but it has no residential assistance; it's a lie that lends itself, it's a lie. That is why one of the measures to be studied is the possibility — as the platform requests, nor even our group asks — that part of the residential squares that need to be enabled at the educational centres themselves, and allow the continuation of residence at the EEC boarding facilities Barcia and the EEC López Navalón by the student so far. Sign the platform, which currently says Barcia has nothing but seven residents. On the other hand, it is also necessary to enable the road transport of people with functional diversity who will reside in the possible places enabled in these day care centers in the area, such as those in Cegadi, to avoid the distance between companions and companions. Of course, we will continue to ask the Government of the State for budget, as we have come to do. Laws such as those of Mr. Montoro, which drown the Town Councils, are also whose they are; they are not precisely the responsibility of our group. In this problem — as the platform points out — of persons forced to stay in their homes due to unstable family situations is often the separation of parents, predominance of single-parent families, parents or tutors who age and cannot attend them as needed by daily work obligations and a long-term issue. I want to finish by asking you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u79	Finish, please. And position yourself on the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u80	In the amendments, there is a transaction amendment that I will move to both groups. But I want to finish -- and I ask the president to give me thirty seconds --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u81	Less, hurry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u82	...signing what the platform says in the letter sent to the groups, which is very concrete and which, if the problem was right, would not refer it to the groups: "We are aware that the social problem in general is enormous and complex and that it affects a large number of people, families and collectives, as well as public resources, which are limited.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u84	However, we believe that what makes a society able to refer to itself as such, among others, is its ability to properly and properly address those people who, for one reason or another, need their help to live a dignified and proper life in which they can fully develop their abilities."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u86	We approve here and do it in the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u87	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the impact it would have on the competitiveness of the Welsh fishing sector and the port of Vigo the application of the Instruction of the General External Health Sub-Direction for the import of frozen or processed fishing IM/1/2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u88	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u89	You have the floor to make the proposal not by law to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u90	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Well, today we're going to talk about a problem in the port of Vigo that affects its competitiveness, the competitiveness of the city of Vigo and the competitiveness of Galicia. But it is a problem of the Border Inspection Post, in which the Harbour Authority has no authority, and that happens in everyone — I believe — the ports of Spanish territory. We speak of the Post of Border Inspection of the port of Vigo — more known as PIF — which is subject to instructions and decisions of the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Health, which has in town the users of the port and which causes the diversion of goods to the port of Leixões. Here I'm going to make a point, because in Legions it really depends on the management of the port; i.e. the PIF itself depends on the management that this administration has, the difference from what happens in Vigo. What was the reason for registering this LNP in April? Well, at that time we knew how to manage a new instruction for frozen or processed fishing import, the IM/1/2019, from the General External Health Sub-Direction, a measure that caused container paralysis and its diversion to Portugal, reactivating the escape of goods from the port of Vigo. And I say reactivating because we've already come to another problem before — because the PIF has historically had many problems — not far from time, which has slowed the movements and caused that diversion also to the port of Legions and the port. Then, the Health Minister, who was Dolors Montserrat, signed a protocol with the Port of Vigo that demanded, moreover, the users, that she demanded the throne herself and that she demanded the whole city of Vigo; therefore, that protocol of action again instituted the agility. Well, everything was relatively good until, in that month of April, that instruction order I quoted earlier, which was IM/1/2019, called for administrative obstacles to imports of products from third countries, in particular from China, because it collected that 100 per cent of its consignments had to undergo a verification process requiring operators to provide copies of catch certificates to assess that the fish was frozen, processed or transported on board vessels authorised by the European Union. In other words, it was supposed here that the controls of other countries were not valid, but in Vigo there had to be that control from the beginning and the beginning, that what he did was to complicate the bureaucratic procedures and therefore divert traffic to Portugal, to very few kilometers and where these bureaucratic procedures were not challenged. In the face of this situation, the inspectors of the Border Inspection Post — PIF itself — and the officials of the Ministry of Health also quoted with a broad representation of the sector to clarify doubts about education. At that meeting, they discovered some doubts and shortcomings and some technical limitations in issuing themselves — the officials themselves — health certificates from third countries, motivation that led the Sub-Direction to cancel that IM/1/2019 and replace it with IM/2/2019 within a short period of time and without informing the sector after that meeting. This caused another aggravating and brought new complications to the PIF. What is the point of discussing this LNP in the plenary? Because that IM/2 still has an IM/3 behind it; that is, they are reactions and there is an absolute legal insecurity for port users, a legal insecurity that makes it sometimes difficult to retain traffic and retain users in the port of Vigo, having the port of Legions so close. What is the reason for the debate, therefore, in the plenary session of this GNP? They know that, with this amendment, ships, processing plants and refrigeration stores working with imported products should be included in the list of establishments authorised to export their products to the European Union and that, if only the authorization of the plant or the issuance of Traces — which is Trade Control and Expert System — should be included in the list of establishments authorised to export their products to the European Union, inspectors should request a copy of the catch certificates. It's just complicated to explain. So it's more bureaucracy, more legal insecurity and, therefore, more complications. From this parliamentary group we understand, at the time when this instruction was ordered, that the application was a barbarity, that created, as I said, a huge legal insecurity and that in Spain it introduced a rigour without the guarantee, in addition, that in other member countries, such as Portugal or the Netherlands, they did not have to do or apply it in the same way in their inspection posts. It was therefore a very strict compliment that Spain did and, as I say, remained competitive in the port of Vigo and remained competitive — I insist — throughout Galicia. As always, we get the feeling — and it's not the first time, I've already said it in this gallery several times — that the Government of Pedro Sanchez does not know the reality of our fishing sector, that it governs by giving his back or, at least, it doesn't interest him, because it's some action -- some lady or spokesman of the Socialist Party says it's been a long time, but it's given him time to deploy some -- that they're doing a lot of damage to the fishing sector. So we believe that these instructions are the result of an ignorance of the prejudices that the application brings to Galicia, brings the users of the port and therefore brings to the entire sector and to the competitiveness of the port of Vigo. I say the port of Vigo because the users themselves — I'm not talking about politics anymore, I'm not talking about mayors, opposition groups or political parties — the port and the officials themselves wanted to resign at some point. Why is it important, moreover, that we all defend him in this parliament? For it is important because we have attended the withdrawal of this instruction because of the demands I am talking about, because of the demands of resignations I am talking about, the legitimate demands of the Port of Vigo and the legitimate claims of the Board of Galicia, the president of the port and the city as a whole — we will now see the hemerotheca. So we think that withdrawal was May 23, fast, because we had an electoral period. You speak of the fact that the electoral period and dates are important or not important: we believe that there were elections in which, in addition, a candidate in Vigo had all the meat in the roaster — very well — and, of course, a call to the Ministry what he does is withdrawing that instruction. But we're afraid that, at best, when everything happens, I'll order an instruction like this again. We believe that from this parliament we have to approve this LNP so that the users of the port and so that the port of Vigo have legal security on the subject of the PIF, in the customs of the PIF, and that we are not constantly thinking whether the charges and the downloads can be done or not regardless of the instructions that are ordered from External Health. Of course, this parliamentary group, like the sector itself, did not understand the application of that instruction, which would remain competitive with other Member States. I believe that you, Members of Galicia, will not understand that instruction either, and that is why we are in addition to what the Galician Union has stated: the need to guarantee the highest principle of legal security — in this case it is very important — so that the sector does not remain open to random changes in clear and precise scenarios in what it is doing, in line with the rest of the countries or Member States of the European Union. We don't know what will happen to the Socialist Party with Holland, because, curiously, the beneficiaries when Vigo's PIF has complications are Porto and Rotterdam. Now with the tax read we've seen that the Netherlands was also benefited to the detriment of Galicia, so we've already begun to think that something has to be. This, as I have said, comes from a long time, because the PIF has always been a very complicated administrative process, also due to the volume and many times, in addition, because they are important health issues for the fish consumer. So it's nothing new, but we want to guarantee legal security, I insist. Beyond the PIF, I want to talk, in addition, about that when the problems arose, the port of Vigo was closing with figures that had been the best for ten years. The port of Vigo had in April or at the end of 2018 an increase of fourteen percent of frozen fishing discharges and over 40,000 tons, the best figure since 2008. Therefore, we saw that already in July 2018 Health refused fishing discharge in Bouzas due to lack of PIF and Porto asked for equality with Barcelona. In other words, in Barcelona you could download what could not be done in Vigo; another aggravation between ports, as we also had with the forgiveness of the debt with Valencia. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows you a document to the members of the House.]] We want clear and concise attention and legal security from the Government of Spain with the ports of Galicia and, more specifically, with the port of Vigo. Besides, I want to do it too, because I know that in the amendments you are asking for and taking advantage of requests to the management of the port of Vigo, but the president of the port of Vigo has always been defending the interests of the users, who was in the Government of Spain, because he did it when he was the People's Party. I insist that before all these instructions were put in place — I have here the hemerotheque since July 2018 with everything that has happened — we closed the year with the best figures, and already in April, again: "Madrid demands the origin of all the fish that comes from China and reactivates the leaks to Legions." [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And from there on, again the alarms and again lack of competitiveness. We believe that the increase in bureaucracy and those instructions make no sense when we are subject to European standards and when we know that there are health guarantees for consumers; so I think that is to increase bureaucracy without any sense. Furthermore, there was another obstacle with the last instruction, the IM/3/2019, which prevented fish meal from being stored in Vigo, also diverting — with loyal competence — to the Sea and even to the Legions. Here we think there's something behind the insistence to put obstacles to the port of Vigo; so we want everyone to be able to make a deal from here today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u92	...or reach an agreement so that the Vigo PIF will work in peace and with legal guarantees and that competitiveness can increase so that traffic doesn't all flow to Porto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u94	Thank you, President. Well, the spokeswoman of the People's Party already recognized here that the issue was in the process of solving, because if the instruction had been withdrawn and there were negotiations... well, it attributed it to the electoral environment. Anyway, we feel very timely about the debate on this issue, because there are more problems than the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mrs. Egerique, and because there are more problems in the port of Vigo. She came to recognize that one of the solutions was precisely to assume the competences, because she said that we had no competence to solve these kinds of problems that in Barcelona or in Legions they could deal with because they had more decision-making capacity. So I suppose it will support our proposal, by way of amendment, that Galicia assumes the powers and transfers in ports of general State interest. Of course they are ports of general interest to the state, because it receives a lot of income from the state of these births; in the case of Vigo, about thirty million years of tax collection, for example, that they go to other places. That's why it's so important that we manage those infrastructures. Then, of course, you mentioned the subject of the PIF, but there are more problems in the port of Vigo. There are serious problems in the port of Vigo that have to do not only with the diversion of fresh fish or frozen fish, where we are leaders, but also with the containers that are drifting away or also with the traffic of cruises, where we are touching the bottom and yet the forecasts are worse than the future. Vigo is no longer competitive compared, for example, to Legions or Coruña: it's around half the traffics that have these other ports. With regard to PIF, you know perfectly well that it is a cyclical and chronic problem that has been repeated over time and that we have suffered in 2016 and 2017, with serious consequences. As it is clear that it was then, the BNG at that time denounced the situation; the People's Party, as it ruled in the state, was silent, then supported the initiatives, but did not raise the flag and war axe as it is doing now. The reality is that goods are being diverted to Legions because, in addition, Portugal is having a strategic bet by the port of Legions. In addition to having a much clearer regulation and more legal security, it is also betting on the complementary infrastructures of the port, which is not doing the port of Vigo, for example — there we have PLISAN. That is one of the great problems the port of Vigo has, precisely: the need for spaces and good communications, for example, by rail, which the People's Party did not solve when it was in government. No, he didn't solve it, and that's supposed to cost upswing, for example, because they have to go goods to port and then transport them by road to Vigo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Vigo's port has a lot of problems, but you know what's the main thing? The main problem of the port of Vigo is called Henrique López Veiga, the president of the Harbour Authority; he is the chief responsible. [[Applause]] What are they waiting for to take him out? This is one thing to two, to see if they agree, because it would be a good decision for the port of Vigo. [[Mr. Bará Torres makes a gesture reference to the People's Party bench and the Socialist Party bench.]] Yes, I propose to the Galician Union, but who's named the Central Administration. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They should have refused it, at least, shouldn't they? With the outcome you're doing there... The port of Vigo needs to increase traffic: fishing traffic, container traffic and cruise traffic; it needs to solve these infrastructure problems, and it also needs to recover all lost personnel based on retirements, biases and other causes that have drastically reduced the template. It needs, as we have proposed on many occasions, to create a table for the port of Vigo where all the administrations are on the same side; not to fight, but to work on the same side: the Vigo Township, the Harbour Authority, the Galician Union, the Government of the State, trade union organizations and business organizations, to enhance the commercial and fishing activity and also the activity of the transatlantic dock so that the port of Vigo fulfils the role it has to perform, which is to be a great economic engine and generation of employment for Vigo and its area, and not for it to be losing force, that it is losing competitiveness and that it is losing capacity, as it is going on in recent years. But that — I have told you — has a great responsibility, a chief manager, who is the president of the Harbour Authority of Vigo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of the port of Vigo, on Friday, May 24, this year, in an installation called "Tinglado do port", the People's Party made a political act in its electoral campaign and, in that act, the president of the Union, in an environment — with the permission of Blanco Amor— typical of A Esmorga, said textually: "I live in no one's property. It's not a gentleman's cork, it's not a bunch of journalists serving a gentleman." I want to tell Mr. Feijóo and the People's Party that it is much better to be part of a team that reaches sixty-eight percent of voters' support than to be a traveling companion of a drug dealer. I've said it a lot and I want to repeat it, because, beyond the political issue, it shows the journalists and the gentleman an absolutely despicable elitist vision. [[Applause]] Mrs. Egerique, look: speaking of the port, it's very good that today, for example, I put a visual on the press, and you can put it... I understand you didn't get elected and maybe you're upset, but let me talk? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u97	Mr. Losada, after the morning you've been there, I think it's convenient for you to continue, because there was no interruption. They're talking, but a word doesn't stop him. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u98	What do I wear tomorrow?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u99	Speaking all the time. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u100	It would be very nice if they would take a look at the detention in Palma de Mallorca of the CEO of Pemex, who was the one who made constant press rounds with Mr. Feijóo, for alleged corruption — even today — in the Odebrecht case, which is always illustrative of the environment or scope in which Mr. Feijóo and parts of his government move. Mrs. Egerique, look: the biggest problem in the port of Vigo is that the People's Party uses it as an aristocracy against the Vigo Town Hall and appoints absolute incompetent or political commissioners: Mr. López-Chaves and Mr. López Peña. That's the problem of the port of Vigo, not the Government of Spain. [[Applause]] But look: it is not the Government of Spain now nor was it the Government of Spain before; it was no Government of Spain; it is the Union of Galicia putting there — I insist — political commissioners who, instead of managing the port of Vigo, try to do politics against the Council of Vigo and the mayor of Vigo. But so it goes, indeed: they have four concellers; I'm glad, because the next one, as they follow in this line -- and on this line means The Marshal, it means the metropolitan area, it means...; finally, that I'm going to tell you, which is Vigo and knows well -- it's going to be two. Next time, as you say, it'll be two. Yes, there were four! [[Applause]] Look, do you know what's going on? [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] That the numbers are there. We told them they were going bad. Isn't there a hurry? [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera: There's no rush.]] Well, the Buddhist approach of the People's Party certainly fascinates me. [[Laughter]] So, on his own initiative, he talks several times about legal insecurity; that's what I understand. I'm so sorry they didn't think about legal insecurity when they dropped the government wind plan Emilio Pérez Touriño. Yes, of course! [[Applause]] Of course it has to do with it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's where legal insecurity doesn't seem to affect that much. Look: it is an opportunistic initiative because, indeed, in IM/1 instruction there were problems which were solved in IM/2 and which were resolved in IM/3, and indeed the sector itself — you speak a lot about the sector I suppose you are aware of — recognizes the progress that has been made on this issue. But I also want to say that food security is a central element, and the Government of Spain, to rule the Socialist Party, to rule the People's Party or to govern who governs, should be concerned about guaranteeing it. So it's good that you take this to make political unrest, but I repeat again: the economic agents of the port of Vigo have to have all the support of the political agents, but food security is a central element. With regard to the amendments, indeed, we tabled an amendment in which we included all that, unfortunately, the Port of Vigo, so busy in opposing the mayor of Vigo, did not, as the subject of PLSAN — Mr Bará already spoke. I want to read a headline: "The Board starts on Monday the work of the new debugger." But we weren't in that everything was built. I don't know how long and practically the companies were about to settle there? In other words, what this humble deputy said was true: there was no debugger, no underground or on the surface. And by the way, it was the Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil, now that it rules the Socialist Party, who gave it permission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u102	not the Hydrographic Confederation when it ruled its party. So, see if they tell us... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u104	Hey, it's been three seconds. I've seen people here, including Mrs. Egerique, who spoke a little bit more. I know you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u105	Look: Your time is up; your timer is there, just like everyone else. I in the second zero always say they end, and you have a few seconds to finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u106	Well, nothing. Thank you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u107	If we were to focus on the matter, I'd give him time to talk about everything. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u108	Thank you, President. Good morning. The first thing we have to say is that we regret that the concern they show and, above all, the urgency they present to bring initiatives to this parliament on the demands of large businesses and on the demands of industrial fisheries are neither similar nor close to half when we talk about traditional fishing, when we talk about sustainable aquaculture or when we talk about seafood. When we talk about all of this, you never have the concern and urgency compared to when we talk about the great industrial fishing. They only defend one part, they only defend — as I say — industrial fisheries, and they see many of the decisions and many of the initiatives brought to this Parliament. There are different models of understanding our sector and, of course, we disagree with you in practically nothing. We only agree on this initiative in a matter, which is the importance and impact that will be on us of any rule that will modify or that is related to the control of imports of products from China, because it is the largest exporter of processed or frozen fish in the world. But the rest of the story is that we have to tell them that we can't agree to anything. We are talking about an important issue such as food security, food safety and health, and we believe that at least we should apply the principle of caution when we talk about this issue, especially when we are talking about products from China, given the history of non-compliances that — as you know — exist. We believe that we are facing a debate of silence; it is not a debate that can be resolved with simple questions and, at least, we would ask for caution and answer. Because it is clear that one of the fundamental problems is that homogeneity is not being guaranteed in all ports of the European Union, and we agree with it, and of course we have to work to make it this way; but that is not the fundamental problem. We believe that two different debates are being held, that in this initiative two debates are being mixed and that they are not being resolved in the best way. Let's talk about the need to guarantee homogeneity and think about why the port of Vigo is having problems: perhaps Mr López Veiga's poor management has something to do with which the most problems are being encountered; but that does not have to do with limiting controls when we talk about food security, because it is essential that these controls exist and be rigorous, because we are talking about a very serious issue. Obviously, we do not agree and cannot continue to happen that goods that were to be downloaded in Vigo end up drifting to other ports, as happened to the port of Leixões. But your initiative is not going to solve that; your initiative is going to eliminate, a priori, health security controls. We think it's two debates that are mixed up, but they're not the same. We also want to insist on a question: if you are really concerned about the situation of the port of Vigo, take the measures that must be taken. The first — and it has already been said — is to remove López Veiga, because we have spent many years of privatization policies in the port of Vigo and for a long time without making any political action in such basic matters, for example, as the rail connection of commodities. What did you do to solve this issue? Because if they are really concerned about the competitiveness of the port of Vigo, they will have to take steps to make this change, and with this all we see is absolute disintegration. What have they also done to avoid the spills in the Vigo River? What did they do? Absolutely nothing. These are the fundamental themes for the port of Vigo to be equal to other ports when we talk about competitiveness and for really the industrial fabric of the city doesn't have the problems it's having right now. We're going to find out when we're talking about defending responsible fishing, sustainable and socially fair fishing, but we don't think that initiative is going in this direction, and that's why we're going to abstain today. It has already been said: the main thing is that they take on skills. And you have to remove this gentleman, who has been realizing for many years that he does absolutely nothing good for the port of Vigo but defends a privatization model that is ending with the port of Vigo. We must remove it; the complaints of the workers of the port against López Veiga happen and have been happening for a long time. If they really want to take action that goes to the root of the problem, they start by dismissing this man, who, as I say, is the big problem of the port of Vigo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor of Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u110	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I mean that food security is and has been guaranteed, because the PIF didn't start working yesterday. What we're trying to do here is ensure legal certainty and eliminate bureaucracy, because what these instructions do is impose bureaucracy, not remove guarantees that what gets into the PIF is better or worse. In fact, when there are alarming problems that can be health-care for consumers, it acts, and we've done some commission in this case. Well, the data from the port of Vigo are very positive, I said it in my first exhibition. Mr Bará, you're in charge of saying no, but traffic is increasing. Look, I'm going to say easier what I explained, because you here twisted what I said: I said that Vigo Port has no competence at the PIF, it's external health. I said the Government of Sánchez prioritizes the ports of the Mediterranean to the detriment of the Greeks; I repeat it, and I hope not to repeat it again, because it is no longer just because of this subject of the PIF, it is because of many other things. The Government of the People's Party acted: when I was Minister Dolors Montserrat, a protocol was signed to eliminate bureaucracy. We are always doing — I believe — in almost all the electoral programs of all parties the elimination of bureaucracy and the most agile administration; that is what we are all looking at, looking a little forward. Well, that's what we want. Mr. Losada, who would say you won the election! You came out here a little angry too -- I don't know why -- it seems, perhaps, that the concierge jacket is a little tight; I don't know why you had to get so angry at the exposure of your motives. Look: I think it's because who used the port as an absolute platform to get to the Town Hall was Mr. Abel Knight. It's been a long time and maybe a lot of people here don't remember it, but a platform with a nobility in the middle of the river, a platform with the city... well, what's going on! I'm entirely congratulating you and assuming the election results, but my thought about Abel Knight hasn't changed. I mean, who doesn't think like he's doomed, condemned to what? Let him explain! Let him explain it, because he was the one who said it. So, I mean that very well, that commends the election results, but we're talking about Vigo's Border Inspection Post. You're talking more about the management of the port of Vigo. Vigo port management may have many obstacles, but it is clear that users are the ones who always impose their criteria, which is depoliticized in this case and which are the ones who are working. You come here to talk about whether you've done an act or not have done an act. Look, you know what I'm telling you? That the person who used the port of Vigo and the money of all the vigues across the port of Vigo to launch his campaign -- I feel like telling you -- was Abel Caballero. It was many years ago, but it was necessary to review those photographs of that wonderful Vigo that looked like Montecarlo. Well, that's true. Hey, and it worked! I'm not taking credit from him: it worked.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u111	Please position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u112	I'm done, president. The fact that In Marea doesn't agree with us is normal, it seems normal; the truth is, we're far away. But — I say — this is to eliminate democratic obstacles, it is not to fail to guarantee health security. We think it's important to take a positive step...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u113	The amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u114	...and it is important to strengthen and guarantee the competitiveness of the port. As I said, when they speak in the Ministry of Health of the Socialist Party, in Portugal they rub their hands. So we support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u115	The amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u116	The amendments will not accept them, because, as I said before, they go beyond the PIF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u117	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the requirements required for the maintenance in Galicia of the large family status of a special type, as well as the recommendation made by the Central Government on the subject
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u118	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u119	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. In Galicia there are about twenty-five thousand large families, of which more than two thousand and two hundred and fifty are of a special category. Many families are a fundamental collective for the economic and social development of a country, especially in a context such as the current demographic crisis. So today we want to highlight the work not only of numerous families, but also of Agafan, the Galaga Association of Many Families, an entity that daily serves multitudes of families with children, providing information and guidance on their rights. [[Applause]] I would like to greet your President, Luis Sánchez, and your Vice-President, José Manuel Trigo, who accompany us today in this debate with other members of the association. Thank you for the work you do every day with large families in our community. [[Applause]] In 2003, the Government passed the Protection Act to numerous families to update and improve current legislation. This law established a new classification of numerous families in Spain into two categories: the special category, which are those families with five or more children, the families with four children, but when at least three of them come from birth, adoption or multiple reception, or the families of four children when the income of the family unit does not exceed seventy-five percent of the IPREM; and, on the other hand, the general category, the rest of the families with three or more children. Well, in that law, Article 3 states that, in order to recognize and maintain the numerous family status, children must meet the following conditions: to be greater than twenty-one years or twenty-six years in case they are studying higher education, to have some kind of disability or to be unable to work, whatever their age. Article 6 of the law states that the title must be renewed when not only the number of members of the family unit varies, but also the conditions which have given them the right to the title, causing a change in category or even the loss of a large family status. In 2015 the Government carried out a reform of this law with a clear objective, which was to keep the family title large until the last of the children reached the age set by the law. This reform prevented the younger brothers who had generated the right to numerous family titles from enjoying their benefits because older brothers reached their maximum age and no longer counted as part of the family unit. By setting an example, there was some older brother who benefited from the 100 percent reduction in the university enrolment rate when younger brothers had to pay the 50th or all of the university enrolment, because his older brothers had already reached the maximum age established in the previous law. However, the amendment introduced in this law has caused many doubts and discrepancies in interpretation. Why? Because it did not include an explicit reference to the maintenance or loss of the category. It is therefore worth asking whether reform involves only maintenance of a large family status or maintenance of a special category. And you might also ask yourself, if the legislator has not limited the right, can the administration do it by interpreting the rule? In view of this situation, the Galician Union does what it does is to ask the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Consumption for clarification on two occasions. On both occasions the pronouncement of the Ministry was clear and inflexible in the interpretation: "It cannot be interpreted. (...) It is not possible to maintain the special category of a large family when the number of children is below the set." Despite the fact that there are different judgments and even a recommendation by the Ombudsman of the people supporting a flexible interpretation, the Ministry demands a strict and literal interpretation of the law. Specifically, the Ombudsman's recommendation of April 2017 sends a recommendation to the Ministry to maintain the status of a large number of special families even though one of its members ceases to meet the requirements. But there is also a ruling by the Supreme Court of April 2019 — very recently — which sets out that numerous families of a special character retain the title and category while at least one of the children fulfils the conditions of age, coexistence and dependency of the parents who demand the law. So, from our point of view, this Supreme Court judgment is a turning point, because it is pronounced contrary to the criterion maintained so far by the Ministry. On 24 April — a few days after this judgment was published — the Central Government sent to all autonomous communities a report from the State Counsel in which it analyses the interpretative discrepancies. The State changes its position following the Supreme Court ruling and gives the criteria of that judgment, but with restrictions, because it limits the cases: only for families where the number of members of the family unit varies, but not in cases where the economic conditions of the family unit or the cases of disability vary. Well, what to do about this new situation? We believe that, first of all, it is necessary to remember the retroactive effects of the Supreme Court judgment, since the State Counsel's report leaves the decision of the autonomous communities whether or not to apply the criterion since the 2015 amendment of the law came into force. And secondly, it is necessary for the Central Government to present a homogeneous interpretation appropriate to what the courts are expressing in their judgements for the benefit of numerous families of a special nature. So today from the People's Parliamentary Group we are presenting this initiative, in which we urge the Council of Galicia, first of all, to maintain in our community the status of a large number of special types of families while one of the children meets the conditions of age, coexistence and dependency of the parents who demand the law, in line with the last judicial judgments and in accordance with the recommendation of the Ombudsman of the People's Republic. And with a second point, he says, "To address the Government of Spain to amend its recommendation on the subject, to recover homogeneity at the national level for the benefit of numerous families of special types and to adapt to what the courts are expressing." Ladies and gentlemen, many families are very important in our community and in the rest of Spain; about twenty-five thousand large families in our community, of which more than two thousand and two hundred and fifty are of a special category. What this initiative is looking for today is to benefit these families and that there is no discrimination between brothers who do receive discounts and bonuses from that number of special-class family titles and younger brothers who, although they have the many family titles, cannot benefit from their advantages. So we want to end this problem today in Galicia and that, of course, it would be not only the title, but the category. We look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups on this issue. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u122	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. I also want to greet, first of all, the members of Agafan who accompany us today and also thank him for his intense work. Anyone who has heard today the voice of the People's Party and who does not know the democratic history of who has been in Moncloa in the various years of this period would think that both the 2003 Family Law and the 2015 reform on the maintenance of that large special family condition, which has generated a genuine flood of criticism, complaints and confusion for all autonomous communities, have made them the governments of the Socialist Party. I would also think that the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez have been ruling for twelve years in Spain, and you might even think — which I think you did not mention directly — that this ruling of the Supreme Court, referred to a complaint that happened at the Andalusian Board, was an exceptional case. What's the reality? The reality is that the 2003 Family Law was approved with the Government of Mr Aznar, that the reform of the year 2015 made it the Government of Mr Rajoy and that the Socialist Party has been ruling in Spain for twelve months — not twelve years. Also, not only were there problems in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, of which much has been spoken over the last few years — I imagine it will be avoided from now on — but we have forgotten to speak of other cases, cases of complaints from families who have lost the status of a large number of special families because councils governed by the People's Party have eliminated this condition. [[Applause]] This is how the judgments of the Madrid High Court of Justice and the Castile-A Mancha High Court of Justice of April 2019 and February 2019 are expressed. I'm saying it's due to put back a schedule: we're in May 2019; that is, it just happened a few months ago. The fact is that there have been negative judgments for autonomous communities in recent years, for complaints from 2017 and 2018, and the reality, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, is that Mr. Rajoy's Government has done absolutely nothing. True, now that there is a ruling by the Supreme Court and that governs the Socialist Party, you said: let's ask what we haven't done, which is what they're doing lately. At this initiative we presented to him an amendment which appeared to be collected in those hundred and ten measures which the Socialist Party presented in its election programme for general elections. We were planning to approve a new family law, but I am also going to make a small parentage, because when talking about family law, the People's Party has a different concept, and I want to explain it: a family law that is not a nativity; that doesn't concern women's rights, as it intends to do, for example, their companion, Mrs Ayuso, speaking of non-born conceptions and such issues; a law that respects the diversity of families in this country, not as Mr. Rouco Varela does, Mrs. Ayus, who goes from Vox's crochet; that doesn't classify families; that she doesn't intend to marginalize and practically lure families that are composed by couples of the same sex; that she doesn't intend, in the end, to follow Mr. Rouco Varela's idea, but rather to respond to the reality — as she said — to the diversity in our country; that she doesn't intend to marginate and virtually bind families, to the progressive couples and to the socialists in particular; that she does not seek the needs of their needs, but that she must, the abundance of their needs, the abundance of their needs, the families, the abundance of their needs. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We commit ourselves, in addition, to making a modification to this large special family, which until now was considered to be for the families of five children, and to reduce it to those of four; in addition, also to collecting that those monomantal families with two sons or daughters have the consideration of a large family, not as it happens now, which is three children; and also, of course, as this law is not being implemented, to solve the eves that are being held, taking into account the judgments of the courts and, of course, also those recommendations of the Ombudsman. Now, we ask the Galician Union to do the same, it will not be that now, as there has been a change of government in Spain, the Government of Feijóo and the People's Party here in Galicia will become — as we are seeing in recent months — in what "councils seeing that I don't have."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u124	By the way, that was once commented here and I want to make a point: today the socialists and this parliamentary group are very proud of the social policy that the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u126	...by the way, with fifty-nine percent more attention to the dependency you voted against. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u127	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u128	Good morning. I, as it could not be otherwise, also greet the representatives of the Association of Large Families and welcome this parliament. I actually want to start by saying that, in fact, the Family Law passed in 2003 and its modification in 2015 resulted in problems and different interpretations that were causing prejudice to families in the sense that it was explained here, that the interpretation that was being done was in the sense that this condition was being lost. I have to say that we are talking about having that condition, it means benefits in very diverse and numerous areas: in the field of access to cultural issues, transport, education, tax advantages, bonuses to hire or buy housing, for vehicle registration, for domestic services and even for job booking. I mean, of course, we're not talking about a minor issue; we're not talking about a matter simply of receiving a direct cash account, but of a broad spectrum, and not of having that serious biased bias. Indeed, when I saw the date of registration of this initiative by the People's Party, I recognize that I did not understand very well why it was registered at that time, on 20 April, when it had just occurred, precisely, the Supreme Court judgment. With which, that judgment quite clarified that legal fundamental battle that families and family associations were having, demanding interpretation that this right should be maintained as long as members were entitled to, either by age or by other conditions. Of course, what is strange to me is that right after that Supreme Court ruling is when the initiative is presented, because the normal thing would be that the Spanish Government, on its own initiative, has already withdrawn that restrictive interpretation. It would be, of course, what we want to think at the head of the BNG is going to happen: that, after several judgments in the lower fields and after the Supreme's judgement, the Government will do so, or that at those interterritorial meetings that government conducts, the issue is now clarified. With this I mean that we are in favour of it being applied in this direction and that you don't have to continue to cherish families in spite of this sentence and say, "Hey, look, there's a right here." Of course, I should sit down and grant you that right, without the prejudice of having to keep prying; we don't want to go on in that direction at all. The People's Party member said that it was also likely to demand retroactive effects, but it is not considered in the initiative; it is not demanded in the initiative or amended in that direction. So, there's a part of the speech that doesn't match what's required on this initiative. I also want to say that I do not agree with a part of the amendment of the Socialist Party — I do not know whether it will be accepted or not — in the sense that we can agree that a new family law is being made and that if we update matters, we have brought here, too, to Parliament, that the Family Law has not been used to regulate the issues of monomantal families and that it is necessary to do so; but, of course, to return the solution to this problem to the development of a family law would be so slow in time that it would not give immediate solution. I don't think it can be exclusive; it should be more and, in any case, not exclusive. With which, I hope that they will be able to agree and that on the part of the Spanish Government — at this moment it is supposed to be in the hands of the Socialist Party — to eliminate this restrictive interpretation, because there is a Supreme ruling, in addition to the recommendation of the People's Valoría at the state level, which says that this interpretation is not correct. Let it be done now, and let it be avoided that the families should be judged and that the recognition of a right given them by law may be delayed in time. And I insist: we also agree that the retroactive effects as well should be recognised, but in any case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u130	I don't know if, taking advantage of an amendment, they can come up with a transaction where it's requested, because in the People's Party initiative it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u131	Thank you very much. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u132	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I also want to greet the representatives of the families who accompany us. Of course, just as we were talking about families with children in a position of functional diversity with specific needs, we now consider that priority should be given to addressing these types of social issues, as is the case with initiative 2 — before this one — and in particular. It is true that at the bottom of the claim that we are being raised in this parliament, I believe that we agree with all the groups: that, in fact, there is a situation of comparative aggravating and regulatory batiburrillo that needs to be arranged and that there are no excuses, just as in other cases there are no excuses. It is true that we are already in a rather complicated situation in terms of birth, survival and care in families, so that they continue to get stuck in a situation that is already, by itself, very precarious even in the care of families and loved ones, and more with the economic problems of the Greek families and of the state as a whole. So we therefore consider that, instead of falling into these issues of not meeting their needs, they must legislate and, for more reason, that we must arrive at sensible agreements and not enter into political confrontation and leave those who have these needs unsolved their questions. That does not take away — and we are called attention — from the fact that the problem of birth is not dealt with by specific measures, although this is one of the structural measures to be carried out, which seems to us a lot of political opportunity what the People's Group is doing. All these issues were as important a few months ago — I don't say years ago; a few months ago — when they brought absolutely nothing of these initiatives or they always had certain obstacles, as happened in the case of Cegadi; however, now that there is another government, they now have an emergency. It seems good to us all the time and when we solve the issues that are necessary for people who are beneficiaries of these measures that must be arranged, but let's not forget who had the government for the absolute majority, who has been ruling afterwards and who has not done what is now requested. In fact, I want to quote a sentence from a large Greek family that has managed to maintain its special category in the wake of a daughter's march. It was a sentence of a Vigo judge who dismissed the Board's appeal in a preliminary ruling in Galicia, since a Vigo judge estimated an appeal brought by a Greek family — which was reported on 26 March of this year — in the face of a resolution by the Social Policy Council denying the status of a large number of specials and in which it was included in the category of a general number. The judge annulled the Board's resolution for finding it inconsistencies with the legal system. According to the judgement, in the summer of 2014 the family unit composed of a marriage and its two daughters, both with disabilities — for the most serious of the matter —, so it was in the category of a number of specials, got this recognition, which was successfully renewed for subsequent years until 2018. We remember that throughout that period Mr. Rajoy ruled; no one else ruled, Mr. Rajoy ruled. The family then submitted the application for the title, but the Board granted it the general category, not special; that — as has already been explained here — is supposed to have lower advantages, and more cases of functional diversity, as this family had. The judgment indicated that when a family unit can reach the special family condition, as this case of this family acquires what we could call "consolidated common legal situation", which will last even though the number of children who meet the conditions that allowed in their day to achieve that quota decreases, and that degree of recognition will remain as long as at least one of them continues to meet the requirements that the law provides for. It was a pioneering decision in Galicia that he had already had previous judgements on it in Valladolid against the Castile and Lion Union, also governed by the People's Party, and also by the High Court of Andalusia against the Government of Mrs. Susana Díaz. Therefore, the Galaga Association of Numerous Families — who accompanies us — has asked that this category be maintained. That's why I'm going to end with what the judge himself said who failed Vigo, who warned that, if he didn't fail in that sense, he would cause an intolerable age discrimination in a rule of law. So we will support that, please, if we reach an agreement between both groups to solve this problem and, above all, to think about people with disabilities and functional diversity, as we said in the previous intervention, which also applies in this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u133	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you're wrong trying to bring this debate to a question of PP, PSOE, Aznar, Rajoy, we haven't been... we're doing is talking about numerous families. Those who are taking the issue to a question that doesn't interest families at all are you. Because look, how can you say in such an important debate that the law of 2003 was a disastrous law and that the reform of 2015 was a sham? Because you see, if you really care about the numerous and so concerned families, this is the first time this plenary initiative has been presented, and we are concerned about this particular issue. If you were so worried about the opposition on this issue, why didn't you ask a question? Why didn't you bring this issue to this Parliament to debate it? No, they criticize her now that the People's Party is bringing her. We believe that the numerous families in Spain, but also in Galicia, are of great importance. And there is a very significant fact that we want to highlight today: that there are more and more families; specifically, the numerous family titles have tripled in just twenty years, from two hundred and seventy thousand in 1996 to six hundred and seventy-five thousand in 2017. We're talking about titles, not numerous families, because the reality is that there are many more families than they have. And in view of this, in view of this very important data and the problem we have at this moment on the table, you get to argue if it was Aznar, if it was Rajoy, if it was PSOE, if it wasn't me, if it was us, of course, we don't think that this debate is serious. Because look, they just said there's a candidate — which, by the way, is neither Galician — who talks about the unborn in their policies. In Galicia there have been years that the unborn child, that the unborn child can enjoy the advantages of the large family, from the moment of the third daughter's pregnancy, the 20% bonus, etc. Look, the law of 2003 was a law that was here to update -- can I speak, Mrs Vilán? -- a law that was 1971. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I come from a large family — seven brothers — and we are registered by a law of 1971, and it was this Law of Protection to the numerous families of the year 2003 that came not only to update the regulations but to improve it, and it was the amendment of the year 2015 that came to maintain the title of a large family until the last child had attained the established age.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u136	I don't know if this is good for you or not for you. Of course, we have two answers to the Galician Council by the State Government, which required a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u138	...explanation strict and literal. Of course, we think this subject is worth it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. The amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u140	...adopt it unanimously. The amendment does not speak of this particular subject. The amendment is to amend a state law. That's a question that has nothing to do with this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u141	I understand it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u142	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u143	Thank you. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the development by the Government of Galicia, in the tenth legislate, of a plan to recover permits of marine exploitation especially oriented to the female sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u144	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u145	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u146	Good morning. Thank you, President. In 2018 there were only 3,792 permits for shellfish. And I'm just saying because in 2009 there were 4,281. And to try to focus the debate on what really matters, which is this reduction and how you can reverse it, I say that these data are extracted from the IGE, and, as we have already clarified here on one occasion, the IGE is not the name of a tavern but it is the Galego Institute of Statistics. So let's try to focus the debate on this point, which is the data, which is the reduction, and they are not or are not the right ones. The question is that this steep fall was fully assumed by the women of Greece, since the marqueo permits of men increased, not so those of women, as I said, that in 2018 we had 3,887 and by the end of 2018 there were only 2,722, 1,165 less permits, which has been one of the three permits of marqueo less suffered by women. We understand that this deserves, at least, an analysis by the German Government and above all it deserves is a specific plan to recover these permits, specifically oriented to the recovery of permits for women by foot. And that's what we're presenting today, this initiative, an initiative to recover marqueo permits for women. What are the reasons for this arsonous fall? Well, it can be multiple. What is clear is that if in a sea councillor's appearance a year ago when we dealt with this topic, his argumentary was based on a 2004 book -- the one on the train, they'll remember -- because we can hardly go. So today we also hope that in this initiative that we bring, in which we are dealing with a fall of one out of three shellfish permits, they at least use up-to-date data. By age it is particularly worrying, since from the age of 50 the reduction is even higher than one in three permits. There is therefore no measure to equal opportunity for women, to combat the precariousness of wages or to break down the barriers that hinder the reconciliation of working, family and personal life. There are not enough measures and therefore that reduction: one in three people less, women less, working in the shellfish. We are faced with a government that budgetes insufficient amounts and those amounts turn out to be too insufficient to execute them, because it leaves six out of every ten euros -- a lot, a lot, because it's much more even than half. The 723A program, in its recovery and improvement of production areas, in 2017 had 2.7 million, in 2018 with 2.1 and in 2019 with 1.9. As you can see, in three years this set of production areas has been reduced by 30%, but the serious thing is that only four out of ten euros are executed. The question — look where you look — is bad for women. Galicia has lost 1,900 women employed since 2009, according to the survey of active population. The women occupied in the last quarter of 2018 were 3,200, in the same period as the year 2009 were 5,100. If we look at affiliations, the same thing happens: out of 6,533 affiliated women we only get 5,100 with that data. So what we're asking them today is to stop arguing about the data, because the data really, whatever they are and pick up the ones they're picking up, they're not good and we're trying to find a solution for this bit of shellfishing permit fall for the women's case. [[Applause]] Here's the graph. I think it's pretty clear, it's perfectly clear that we're currently in 2,722 and we're starting from 3,887. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a document.]] There's one question we're particularly concerned about, too: not only is there less permit for shellfish, is that women are losing visibility, we're also losing jobs in government bodies, in confrereries. And the worrying thing is not only that there are fewer women, but that when the candidates are made, they also present fewer women. We have to regret the attitude of a comfortable government, in its appearance it takes action, in its doing what it does, though we see how this data does not stop falling. Women are less in the confrries, in the organs of government, and, as we said, we're losing visibility. So there is a lack of equal opportunities policies, because if we compare, as we said, that increase in permits for men, the fact is that in the case of women it is totally the other way around. For ages up to 30 years, men's permits increased 81, women increase 7 — the only case up to 30 years of age —. But look, seven permits against 81 that increase women. And to focus on it, I'm talking about seven seafood permits in nine years. From 31 to 40 years old, men's permissions increase by 156, women's seafood permits decrease by 118. Between 41 and 50 years old, men's permissions are increasing by 268, but women's permissions are decreasing by 235. From 51 to 60, men's permissions increase by 159, but women's permissions decrease by 533. And beyond 60, men's permissions increase by 12 but women's permissions decrease by 286. So, once again, it is clear that these policies followed as regards the management of shellfish permits are not productive and the great sufferers, the ones that are having these consequences, are clearly women. Training. Training is the fundamental tool and currently in the Union there is no policy, a training planning. The reality is that training courses and maritime permits come every four years with municipal elections, as an electoral measure, to indicate that they are agreeing on this issue and so on, because some vote is taken as well. It can't be, it can't be an electoralist measure, there has to be planning and training needs to be maintained over all four years of legislation, it can't be that these permits just start to appear in recent months. Training plans for sea workers are a key element in the advancement and improvement of a priority sector in Galicia. Planning, convening of courses, as well as their development, must be carried out clearly, must meet the real needs. We're talking about a key sector for our economy. Within the plans, the courses, as we said, to have those permex, beyond the training plan, contribute to regular and normalizing the profession, to control processes already and environmental and resource developments, to improve the quality of work and also contribute to labour dynamization, based on the sea sector, in particular, on what we bring today, in the seafood sector. So the development of training actions for obtaining permex requires a decision that has a strong interest in the sector. Whatever the number of courses conducted by Junta in recent years, it's clear they're insufficient, but I think it's clearer though they haven't counted the number of women enough, because if we hadn't, we wouldn't be in this dramatic situation as you see, in which one in three jobs was lost in the case of women's shellfishing. Therefore, training is insufficient and especially affecting women very negatively. So that's what we ask them today. In the light are the data, they are clarinets: in recent years it has not improved the situation of marquee permits for women, but quite the opposite: it has suffered a strong regression. And what we are asking them today is that they take concrete measures to recover that number of shellfish permits, but focus on women, which is what we are dealing with today, because, as you see, in the case of men, it has increased; in fact, virtually all the decline has been absorbed by the increase of men. It is an initiative that responds to a real need and I understand that there will be no problem in supporting it. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u148	Thank you, President. I'm sorry, I was naked in a conversation, but I was very attentive to what Mrs. Toja said. Well, we're presenting an amendment to nuance and expand the plan you're presenting. It seems good to us that they ask the board to do this, because it's something you're already doing. I'm going to nuance some of the things you said here, and it's true that we're not going to question the data you present here, but there are different interpretations, as always. We present this amendment because we speak of the participation of the seamstresses themselves in what is this plan that you want to expose here today. We're talking about new lines that need to be taken into account and it's a much more ambitious plan. We're talking about the imminent issue, because in the summer, what was announced three months ago will start. We're talking about funding too, because it's important that this goes hand in hand with money. We're talking about participation, because traditionally the maricadoras collective has always been in touch with the Galician Union, the Councillory of the Sea, to achieve its rights. That is why I say it is sometimes difficult to see the Socialist Party come here to present this plan and talk about shellfishing and being committed, when, I insist, thirty years ago, they didn't want marishers to contribute, they had other different approaches, they opposed themselves on many occasions, and now, recently, we discussed it in Commission 8a, they just approved in the Government of Spain a 25% increase in the receipt of contributions to Social Security. That doesn't help, that doesn't help — Mrs. Toja, allow me to tell you — the seamstresses work. Well, the Galician action plan, within the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, is focused on lines that are oriented towards sustainable management — as I say, something more has to be expanded — the conservation of resources, the protection and recovery of biodiversity and marine ecosystems, the socio-economic development that is also real and employment and the support and marketing of products and co-governance, another issue that we often talk about in Commission 8a. It's anticipated, as I said, that you're ready this summer of 2019, as soon as possible; we're also talking about times and deadlines. But, as I said, it's ambitious because it has to be building and adapting everything I said until 2030. It will therefore affect a group of more than 10,000 people who develop their shellfish activity in our waters, either in walking mode or in boat mode. Then we talked about the data, because, if it's true that it's a traditionally feminine sector and in which only women worked, there are now incorporations of men. So those figures also vary, but it's not that I've reduced women's jobs in this sector. It counts on this plan with EUR 55 million, which is close to several lines: from the European funds, from the FEMP funds, and is also planning to add the closer to the future of the next Fund 2021-2027, where a reinforcement of these lines is estimated at European level, because we have also just had European elections, we will have Greek representatives in Brussels, and I think we must all be in particular in specific sectors of hand by working for our own interests in Galicia. So I say this plan goes a lot further. What we present in the amendment is more ambitious. We, however, have already announced that we are going to support this initiative, because we believe in addition, as I said, that what you are proposing is already taking place in the Council of Galicia, but I insist that these are the nuances that we believe should be taken into account in this case. Since 2016 a stage of stability has already begun in the number of permex, because it is true that there has been some download, that there have been the most complicated statistics you have shown, but 2015 was the first year since the year 2000 when it rose the number of permex from shellfish on foot, with 375 new ones granted, being the highest in the decade and nearly double the average annual since 2005. So we, who have the Bipartite reference, have to say that it has increased considerably with a People's Party government. There was more revenue for the seamstresses, also with oscillations, also with years harder than others, but there was an increase in income. The average income of the seafood on foot grew by 40% from 2009 to 2017 and, in addition, the average income during the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo grew by 13% with reference to what they had in the Bipartite. I insist that this measure, that decree, which may already remain in the forgetfulness, but does not remain in the forgetfulness despite the elections, which imposes a 25% rise on the workers of the sea, has to modify it, and there have also been agreements in the 8th Commission and we have to go ahead with that, I believe that also in the full, so that it does not go ahead, because it does a terrible damage to the workers of the sea. More than 12.5 million square metres of shellfish have been rehabilitated since 2009. The new debuggers have made the waters, moreover, more and more appropriate and appropriate to take account of shellfish. So I used to accuse in another initiative that the People's Party is only interested in high-level fishing, frozen fishing. That's not true. We must respect and work on all roads and all parts of the sector, which is very wide, and it is also important and increasingly crucial in Galicia. We also talk about the reinstallation of batteries and the sorting of what bat polygons are and the reduction to half of areas C, from 16% in 2009 to 8% in 2018. And already to finish, Mr President, about the evolution of the female presence of the marsqueo on foot, I insist that we do not question the data you are raising, but we must take into account that the percentage of women in the marsqueo on foot, including fellows, up to 2009 was always over 92%, and now it is 72%, but it remains a majority — I insist — for the incorporation of men into these fairies. To say that the woman is losing her presence in the shellfish sector, Mrs. Toja, it's not true. Anyway, we're going to continue working on this line and we're going to work and support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u150	It's evidence that the shellfish sector in Galicia, where we had to be a real power by the quality of our product, by the conditions of our laughs to produce a quantity of that product, had to be an activity that had generated a huge economic activity and that had been generating thousands of jobs. Far from being this reality, the reality is that, despite the fact that for the Fisheries Adviser, when he arrived as advisor in 2009, one of his star promises was that he would multiply the permex, instead of the shellfish and directed especially to the women, the reality is that, ten years after that promise of multiplication of the peas and the fish, we found ourselves with the data that was given here, we found ourselves that there are a thousand and five hundred and peak permex less. We are talking about that, in the case of walking seafood, a fundamentally feminine sector, and that could and should be an economic tractor in many of our coastal villages, however, this is not so. It is a sector in which there is no generational relief, because the fundamental question is that it is not attractive for young people, first because of the harsh working conditions — which they have not just changed — by the limited possibilities of training, by the lack of recognition of professional diseases, by the reduction coefficients lower than those recognised for men — which are essentially in the seafood fleet — and by incomes, of course. A sector where the average annual incomes are in the 7 billion gross euros, which — I make a quick account — means that gross per month is around five hundred euros, but we're talking about an average, because there are groups of certain confrereries that don't exceed 200 euros in most months. So, obviously in this context and with these harsh working conditions, in a context where the resources they get are so scarce, it's obvious that there is no generational relief. And of course, the question to ask is why this situation is given. It is true that it is a sector where associationism has been increasing, by the will of women themselves to claim themselves and to try to achieve improvements for their sector, but there is then a very important part, which depends mainly on the administration, where it is not being carried out, as well as the regeneration of areas to increase these production areas and improve the quality of the product; despite this constant daffle of the recovered square meters, it has not been translated into substantial increase of areas for production. There is the theme of theft, where it has not been acted upon, since it has not been removed or minimized. They are the biological and environmental factors of pollution, the lack of stream sanitation, which sometimes leads to a great mortality of molluscs, which persists in time. The situation is that, for example, the shellfish free zones, which are directly dependent on the Administration itself, of the Galician Union itself, which would have to be the one that was occupied and concerned because these areas had an important level of production, are totally abandoned and which, instead of increasing production, declines. He could talk about the data from the free seafood areas of the Arousa River, where they became some areas where thousands of tons of shellfish were extracted to which campaign after the campaign only fades away. What should we add to this? Well, those harsh working conditions that I was saying, the lack of recognition of professional diseases. There wasn't much of a newspaper headline where it was said that many seamstresses have to choose between renewing the permex or being practically in tremendously harsh conditions of disease, doing their job. He was talking about reducing coefficients, and in short, we're talking about a sector that had to be generating quality jobs in our country, and basically quality jobs with decent incomes for women, it's a sector that rubs off and the incomes they're having are really poor -- you have to say so. And of course this is not because of women themselves, but because of the acting of the council, which, on the one hand, tells them that they are fantastic and wonderful but, on the other hand, does not act on those issues that are of their competence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group In Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, even though the voice of the People's Party denies it, it seems clear that, yes, the shellfish in Galicia suffers a reversal that is clearly shown in the statistics. The PSdeG voicer removed an undisputed plot. Since the arrival of Mr. Feijóo, who seems to be doing all right, but not to the Government, we have lost 489 permit to shellfish on foot, we have found ourselves far from the historic 6,500 permits of 2001, we are faced with a genuine conversion of the marine sector, and this drastic decline in licences has its origin in the implementation of requirements for access to the permex, the permits of exploitation. It was intended to reduce the number of people working on the beach, to convert them into seafood professionals, but the professionalism of seafood has affected women above all. Having to take a training course, having to pay for Social Security, having to reconcile, having to declare VAT every three months, having to make a minimum of days a year, accessing a minimum of sales, has led many women to abandon this activity. Professionalization is fine, of course — we share it — but we must do so without excluding women. Many of them did this work in a traditional way and were not yet prepared to face these changes. But this was never a problem that dealt with Mr. Feijóo's Board in a special way. Professionalized without gender focus excluded women, who occupied the periphery of the sector. Almost 20 years later, he didn't even have enough income yet, nor did he end either by theft or exploitation. We were asked what criteria they mastered to regulate shellfish and why new people didn't enter the sector; they had to have won the entry of new women. In the initial regulation, 10 per cent was reserved for new people -- I would appreciate that there was not so much noise at the environment, please -- but there was also a certain experience needed to achieve permex. [[Murmurs.]] So, now we have an absolutely old sector with no generational relief. 60% of the permex are women over 51 years of age. Men don't get this aging. It is clear — and I share with the Socialist spokesman — that these specific actions should be addressed. There is a need for a training plan aimed at improving economic benefits, diversifying activity and, above all, improving working conditions. The average income — mentioned here — does not reach the 1 000 gross euros per month, and hence remains 19.2 % in operating costs and 240 euros in social security contributions. We're talking about 568 euros clean every month, an absolutely unworthy salary for a tremendously worthy profession. In between 40% and 75% of the homes where seafarers live, this is the only source of income. Let's reflect on the social key. What's going on in those homes? There are enormous difficulties in accessing professional sheepmeat. For this reason, the Galician Marshal Association itself brought an appeal before the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Today there are more than one hundred and fifty training actions recognised by the Board that give points to the permex, but it's an absolutely liberal training run by trade union organizations, cooperatives, confrereries, without any kind of leadership on the part of the board. A shellfish model is not propelled to suit the sector. The PSdEG proposal itself lacks clarity. We understand that access to training should be facilitated and we do not share the need to have lists of unemployed flyers to access the first permex. We believe that we need to increase areas of exploitation and we need to recover areas of shellfish so that the coast can accommodate more permex. We must also avoid the reticences of marishers because of the fear that the banks will not reach them all. The Union must run the budgets to improve the productive areas, in 2018 there were €2.540,000 budgeted, of which today only 416,000 were spent, 20% of the budget, as it repeats year after year. Our seafood is an example of social aquaculture, it has socio-economic benefits, so it has to be protected and encouraged. The model is social and democratic, based on the distribution of profits among members of the associations and is absolutely respectful of the environment. But its decline in figures — as mentioned by the BNG spokesman — also has to do with overexploitation, robbery, environmental degradation, pollution, outbreaks of diseases in the bivalves and global sea growth, elements on which the Administration should also act. Finally, more training, yes; professionalization, yes, but well done. Look above all with a gender perspective, look at work and work for the women of this country's seafood. We will support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u154	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the groups. Look, Mrs. Egerique, you said in your speech that the data were subject to interpretation. I think the graph is clear enough. I think he's a descendant to me, but I have to tell him that I asked my partner Mini there to see if he saw her as well as I did, a descendant. [[Mrs. Toja Suárez shows a document.]] At least we all see he's a descendant. [[Applause]] Data is not interpretable. [[Murmurs.]] Permissions, as far as women are concerned, have fallen, and have been reduced to ten years in the time you've been ruling, one in three has been reduced. [[Laughter]] It's the data. Then you also tell us that they're going to set up a plan in summer, but they've been ruling for ten years and they say they're going to set up a plan in summer! Man, I think they had to start looking at this question before. They also say they're going to put money. What we're telling you is that if you're going to put money and put budgets, which have been reducing budgets for the past three years, you're also running them, because you're not running 4 out of every 10 euros in the 723A programme, which is the production area improvement program. So they're gonna put money on? If they put them on, they put them on more, and, above all, they run. And then they also tell us that the measure of socialists — a measure a few months ago — has also harmed us. Home!, they have, I repeat, been ruling for ten years and talking about a measure of the contributions of the socialists who have harmed them. I don't think it's serious, either. In fact, the seamstresses are the most benefited, because in case there are toxin closures they can request the cessation of activity from the next day, which they had to wait until the first day of the next month. Yes, no, no, that's very important, they really benefited from this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you'll understand that we can't accept your amendment. The first one, when I read your amendment and I read a 2030 plan, I thought there was a typographical mistake -- you know -- I thought, I said, well, it would be 2020 and they got confused. But that's 2030! We can't accept an amendment that has a 2030 time horizon, because it doesn't seem serious to us. Above all, what does the sector do in the meantime? We have to ask ourselves: what will the sector do in the meantime? Besides, look, a 2030 time horizon, when I figure that you've got about a year or so left over from government, it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the competition called for the adjudication of the land urgent health transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u156	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u157	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u158	Well, good day again. Land health transport is basic, it is vitally important within the healthcare chain. The speed, the prompt response of an ambulance is a determining factor, of course, combined with the existence of sufficient qualified personnel. And competition after competition there is a permanent deficit in the provision of ambulance services in our country. The Public Emergency Health Foundation of Galicia 061 has just issued the invitation to tender for the adjudication of the urgent health transport service, amounting to EUR 184,801,447, for a period of five years. In the previous competition, which was launched in 2014, the BNG has already warned here in this Parliament that this competition, as it was and as it was going to be assessed, would be a source of problems and would not provide the service in the quality that needs the population. It was a contest at that time held downstairs that in a very obvious and very clear way was directed to offer it to a company with clear convolence with the People's Party. And the People's Party at Galician Union didn't want to listen and the weather unfortunately did nothing but give us reason. In fact, take this invitation before the deadline set in the contract ends. It was a contest that had no more than problems, that was in the trial for how it was helped and that was a source of labour conflict, because that low in the contest what companies wanted soon was to coerce it into the back of the workers and workers and the quality of care they were providing. Many complaints have been made in the field of work and many complaints have been made in the field of the lack of sufficient vehicles in the maintenance of vehicles and the quality of this benefit. Even, given the insufficiency of the vehicles that companies had, they were resorting to third companies to do services to those who did not arrive under conditions, of course, that were not the right ones. Well, this contest has just been taken off, and as soon as we see the conditions that are under consideration, the alarms, the discomfort and the concern will be repeated. Because as health transport is a transport of vital importance we see that the People's Party — it is that it does not learn anything! — and it re-incites by taking a contest where the main element in the barrem, which has much more weight, is the economic issue. It's the economic question again rather than the improvement score in vehicles, materials, people to pay better attention, that is, in a service of this importance that is the fundamental economic element rather than the quality with which the service is to be rendered. Of course, it rains on wet, and we see that the People's Party doesn't learn, and it's a recurrence in persisting in giving a worse quality service. And we see how this contest, as it is presented, sets the alarms on more questions. First, it's not going to solve the problems and demands of the population, which are systematically carrying out the population and the professionals. And the demands are not met because of the provision of medical ambulances in Valdeorras, Bergantinos, Lower Mine or Barbanza and areas that have insisted that it is necessary to provide from the device of medical ambulances. The demand for basic ambulances is not met in very important areas of our country as well. And then we also see with great concern a question that, of course, has no justification from the point of view of care: that in the staffing of the new advanced life support ambulances — which is considered in the competition one for Monforte and another for the district of Salnés — it turns out that they eliminate a technician from what is currently in existence, and, in addition, eliminate a technician from what was already in operation in the region of the Navy. Justification from a healthcare point of view? Absolutely none, because a specialized team of these ambulances must be equipped with technicians, a doctor — that is, an optional staff — and nursing staff. Why is this so? Well, first of all, because this is reflected in the Public Emergency Sanitary Foundation's own page 061, which establishes there the staff that has to carry these kinds of devices. And there it states you have to be a doctor or doctor, a nurse or nurse, a driver or driver and a technician or technical assistant. Well, set it up on your own 061. How do you take out a contest where one of these technicians is eliminated in a part of the advanced life support ambulances? We don't know. And then for another reason, because protocols are defined to have this number of staff. Emergency care protocols are defined to have these four professionals, which are also needed. In the case of an emergency -- we put, for example, a cardiac arrest -- an optional is needed to meet what the airway is, the nurse or nurse for what the venous route is and one of the technicians for a heart massage; and, in addition, they establish the protocols that should be replaced every two minutes, one, so that the technician itself is not exhausted and to ensure the effectiveness of the maneuver that is being performed. How do you plan on doing this with the removal of a technician? Well, we don't have much idea how they're gonna do it. And, another, a question derived also from what is the population dispersal we have in our country, and it's that one of these technicians is also needed to keep telephone communication with the central 061 and even to locate where they have to pay attention, via GPS, see to go talking to the person who made the emergency call. With this decision, what is done is a major deterioration, of course, of the quality that these advanced life-support ambulance devices can provide. And then they eliminate appeals in this contest that have absolutely no justification. For example, in the district of Salnés some years ago, a basic 12-hour ambulance that makes an average of 2,000 services a year. So now it turns out they're suppressing it. Who's supposed to do these services? The medicalized ambulance, that is, a specialized service, were they meant to do basic services? With which it would not increase the service it is providing to the district of Salnes. Or in Sanxenxo Town Hall, they set up a basic support ambulance only two months a year. We can talk about Marin's Town Hall, a demand that we have brought on an active and passive basis to this Parliament, where they demand an ambulance twenty-four hours and which they do not contemplate. Or we can talk about other demands throughout the country that are not contemplated. So what we're looking at is that with this contest they open the door to some theoretical improvements that really get worse with what there was and, on the other hand, they cut. There's a mixed figure between basic and specialized, which is an ambulance with an ambulance with a technician and a nursing staff; i.e. they eliminate a technician and put in a nursing staff, which at last is neither chic nor lemonade. That's right, so in the press headline of this contest by the president of the board they announce how it increases in six advanced life support ambulances, when the reality is that they're two, with one less technician, and there are four others who only have one technician and one nurse. I mean, that distracting maneuver again. Therefore, the BNG, in the face of this competition that does not respond to improving health care or the demands of the population, asks that the valuation criteria be modified, so that they are the best in vehicles, materials and personnel, that is, health care, which has the greatest weight and not the economic issue; that all advanced life support ambulances are complete with two technicians, one of the optional staff and one of the nursing; that none of the existing resources can be removed — one cannot be increased on the one hand and then eliminated what is there, with which the service is not being improved – and that the ambulances that have been demanded, such as the advanced life support of Valdeorras, the Lower Min, Bergantinos, or the basics that are demanded throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u160	Thank you, President. Yesterday we combined a number of different initiatives on primary care and today we do it on health transport, because, in addition to this non-legislative proposal that brings here the debate of the Nationalist Block Galicia, our group is asking a question this afternoon to the advisor to know some of the issues, and we probably agree with the view that we have to why these issues. The truth is that the question referred to in 061, on health transport, is one of those areas where the People's Party never misses the opportunity to cheat. It's a fantastic opportunity to strangle situations and to be able to cause a certain non-organizational chaos, but it's a joint one; to provoke the disordered things, to do them together. By making a small narrative, which is never more recommended to contextualize on the subject, we now work in this debate on a field that has judicialized a process of EUR 121.6 million, which is said to be soon. Why? Because it was a health transport competition in which a company, with obvious links and related to the People's Party, won the contest but that there were obvious evidence, in a judicial complaint, that it had, curiously before the requirement of conditions was published, ambulances already labelled, equipped and measures exactly as they had to be, before — I insist — that the petition had been called. There are police reports on past heavy ambulances, which violate all labour risk regulations, which endanger the professionals who drive them and those who work there, the technicians, and the sick who go to those ambulances on other occasions. It's a process with de facto, consented, consented to by the Galician Council, where there is a disregard for the labour protection of the workers of the service, taking note of the question that it is a work relationship between companies and workers and the Galician Union has nothing to say despite being providing a public service. As if the Galician Union had not used — and the PP mainly — workers in other fields to carry against other parties, other municipal governments, and the truth is that recently in the municipal elections there were bloody cases. But that, yes, in the case of the workers working in a service that is in concession, because it seems that this excuse for it is a labor relationship serves to allow even non-application of agreements and things happening — and I think it is important to mention — as a company, which, I insist, wins competitions for more than a hundred million euros, says that it is in danger of the sustainability of the competition and service for the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage, when there is an obvious conclusion, as if healthcare technicians who go to ambulances do not charge the minimum interprofessional wage, the company does not have a problem of solvency, it has a problem of exploitation, and that is the problem that these kinds of companies have. In fact, at the end of this toy with resources, these fantastic announcements — three days from the election, of course — where medical ambulances are announced for all, looked like a supermarket. One begins to pick up headlines and sees that in those places where there were deficits and permanent claims are announced medical ambulances. After the elections, one begins to crumble and you see that from new ambulances, nothing; ambulances prior to the ones that are equipped with some more equipment but are withdrawn another; ambulances that were of type B become type A practically by divine influence; medium equipment equipping; they are not complete medicalized, but they are called medicalized something smaller. In the end, all the smoke, nothing. But that, yes, three days before the election, medical ambulances were announced to everyone; almost anyone who had called the board had asked for a medical ambulance and had been granted a magic ambulance. Yes, you can recompile the results of the elections where they promised something that was a lie and you can see that citizens, as Mr. President has often said, are not fools. And where they promised things that everyone knew they wouldn't meet, they lost the election too. That's why I remember that sometimes they're not fools either when they have to listen to the People's Party. In this initiative that our group is considering, of course, agreeing with the substance of the matter, we have discussed it on numerous occasions. We have tabled an amendment, yes, which we explained briefly. We are not clear about the real, legal and de facto possibility of crippling the competition. The reality is that we don't like the competition, which we don't like, nor the conditions of the competition, that we don't like, or that we don't share the ideas of the initiative, that we share. It's a question of formality: we don't know if it's possible to paralyze the competition. We plan our clear position: we believe that it is time to analyze seriously and deeply the feasibility of reverting the health transport system to direct public management, which is not now. And we need that study to be done, we believe that it is necessary to study that possibility. That is why we are proposing this amendment, not because we are in no case at all in disagreement with the points raised, which we agree with, and that we could include whether there is a possibility of even negotiating or seeing some solutions to the resolution, and we have only some doubts about paralyzing the competition. In spite of that, if it is about making a political statement of position, we will obviously be in favour, because we share that idea. But only for a matter of form do we present this amendment, which we hope will be taken into account and that if we are capable of, from this and the new realities, making the People's Party understand that it is important not to lie with services such as health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u161	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u162	Thank you, President. Well, what happens to the health transport service in this country is absolutely incredible. It's absolutely incredible because we're going from conflict to conflict and the truth is that no kind of utility is seen for anyone in this conflict. It is absolutely incomprehensible that, after solving a situation of a staff strike, the ultimate strike by health transport professionals, because, in fact, the tenders that were signed did not respect collective agreements — we do not understand why an agreement should be negotiated if they are then transferred responsibility to companies that do not comply with it, because the competition that signed the Union is insufficient — after having solved that situation, when they could move those needs to a role that is the new bidding and there was no further kind of conflict, they republished an invitation to tender that does not comply with the agreement with the professionals. It's absolutely incredible, incredible. And that's probably one of the reasons why, in March, when I asked myself about these conditions, the Health Counsellor refused to answer. I would also like to remind you here that we have been — I don't know, I've already lost count — a year, a year and something, bringing this issue here to the Health Committee, our parliamentary group, interested in that situation, and by the Galician Council denying the existence of ambulances without health personnel, such as support ambulances. We've dealt with this issue. And after the staff has to go to the conflict, they don't want to provide the information either. And I have to remind you here that, as the contests are as they are — a judiciary, a non-compliant, another in which the agreement is not met — we moved to this Parliament and we voted — I also say the content of that amendment that the Socialist Party proposes — that the service be public, that this study should be done. The People's Party voted against, they want a privatized model, but they want a privatized model of continuous conflict, which does not guarantee the minimums. Because it's incomprehensible that, after solving that strike, which after committing to the professionals, they publish a nail that cuts professionals. Or do the people of Foz, Monforte, Salnés have less right to have ambulances equipped with the same number of professionals than the rest of the health areas? It's absolutely incomprehensible. Why in those places are only going to go a technician in advanced life support ambulances? Why not the rest of it? What is the scientific, technical, professional criterion that can cut professionals in some... vehicles and others? [[Murmurs.]] There is no criterion, no explanation. That's why the Health Counsellor refused to answer the questions in March. He said he didn't have to tell us what the nails would be like. Well, how would I tell them, if we've got another protest around us? We've got it on the table. And we ask — and the other groups tell us that too — during all budgetary exercises in the most advanced life-support ambulances, more basic life-support ambulances depending on the minimums that technicians and technicians claimed or told us they were important to comply with isochrons. I'm not going to talk about population dispersion, we all know that element. And we ask for advanced vital support in Monforte, in Carballo, in Verín, in Cee, in Barco, in Salnés. And we find ourselves not only cutting up techniques and techniques, but, as the other voices of the other opposition groups have already expressed here, advanced life support ambulances are also being cut. And now that ambulances don't have the full staff of professionals, that is, they're missing in some medical professionals, because they're engaged to six new ones, but it turns out that only two are going to have medical professionals, they call them optimizing optional resources. It's the last use of an euphemism to justify a cut by the Galician Union. I believe that this situation is absolutely incomprehensible. Because, honestly, after solving the labour conflicts, it makes no sense again to generate a labour conflict. And I don't mean any more -- because I wouldn't give myself time -- to the situation they also have at the call station, which they're on strike. Because Junta is an expert in working conflict and deteriorating health services. They don't want it public, neither do they want it private without conflict. Hey, this can't be. We will support the non-law proposal, regardless of whether or not the amendment is accepted. You know your lords that we transferred the need for this service to be public and voted against, you also know that we ask to paralyze the contest on one occasion and that we will therefore agree on what happens with that amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u164	Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much, President. Go forward that the Government of Greece is always on the side of citizens, of all people, in search of the improvement of services, and much more when we talk about health, to which, as you all know and know, the Council of Galicia refers most of its budget, more than 40%. This is important to note and remember, because sometimes it seems to be forgotten or not to be recognized by some of your lordships. They're alarming again, yes, alarming again. The alarms don't jump through the contest, they jump for you, Mrs. Prado. Alarm and lack the truth, once more. What you're asking for in your LNP, first of all, they're asking to modify the valuation criteria. Well, the adjudication of contracts is carried out using a plurality of criteria based on the best quality/price ratio, which was evaluated in the light of economic and, essentially, qualitative criteria. Mrs Prado, in this competition, the economic offer is 40%, compared to 60% of the improvement in the provision of the service. It is important to note that in the demand for technical prescriptions that are part of the competition it is specified that all — all — advanced life support assistance ambulances and basic life support must be vehicles of new registration, that is, new. They also request the provision of all medical ambulances with professional teams that have so far been holding the one: two technicians, one nursing staff and one optional staff. Look, the new competition will increase the care offer of 061. The incorporation of advanced nursing life-support care ambulances, supported by the results obtained in other autonomous communities, have more decisive capacity than basic life-support care ambulances, as the incorporation of qualified and qualified nursing personnel to, independently in emergencies, emergencies, crises or disasters, carry out immediate measures and actions to preserve life, as called for by initiative 55/2013 of the European Parliament and the Council of 20 November 2013. In addition, new advanced life-support care ambulances will allow the transfer of patients who have experienced long-dependant pathologies, such as acute myocardial infarction, stroke or sepsis, and who can benefit from programs that the Galician Health Service has developed, such as Progaliam, Plan ictus or Code sepse. These resources will have staff specialists in emergency and emergency assistance and transport. Mrs. Solla, there are no snippets, no improvements and no management. The staffing of three professionals, including a nurse, a trained nurse, an emergency and emergency physician, ensures the care and management of any type of clinical pathology, in addition to increasing the survival of patients with acute myocardial infarction, stroke, or even cardiorespiratory arrest. He becomes alarmed and misses the truth again. She also asks, Mrs Prado, not to remove any of the existing resources and expand ambulances. I remind you here that the Public Foundation 061, to dimension the health transport network, undertakes studies on a permanent and continuous basis. And these studies contemplate and value demographic variations, variations in health demands, times of response, distance to health centres and needs and activities in the different regions and municipalities of our autonomous community, with the ultimate aim — as could not be otherwise — to improve urgent health care for the whole of the population of Galicia. I don't think they doubt the staff training of the 061. The current public competition, like all those in the governments of the People's Party of Galicia, is done with discretion and the allocation of resources responds to the results of the studies carried out by Foundation 061 periodically and to scientific recommendations and studies that assess the quality of care in any type of urgent, inter and extra-hospital pathology, carried out with the provision of human resources envisaged. We cannot support his initiative. A new contest that has more and better services and a budget that has increased by more than 50%. Galicia will have sixteen advanced life-support care ambulances, one hundred and seven basic life-support care ambulances and two non-conventional non-assisted ambulances, in addition to six new advanced life-support care ambulances, two of them medicalized and four nursing clinics, and a new basic life-support unit, increasing the operating hours of two non-assistive ambulances, and technological updating of all teams. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u166	First of all, thank you for the favourable support expressed by En Marea. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, we propose a transaction, which is to accept it as an addition, because, in addition to that, it is a matter, of which it is recovered as a public service provided directly by the Council of Galicia, a matter which the BNG has brought here also to this Parliament, so that studies were not done, because it is obviously possible to do so elsewhere, but that all actions have already been put in place to recover. We ask that this contest be stopped because we have already demanded, before it has left, that the changes have been made and that the temptation not to persist in the mistake. And the People's Party, because it's wrong that it's wrong. I am, of course, very grateful for the use of the terminology by the People's Party: I keep calling it advanced life support for an ambulance with a technician and a nurse; that's not advanced life support, it's a mixed thing; it can be an advance with respect to these two technicians, but they're not advanced life support ambulances. Just as they speak of optimization, indeed, when what they mean are cuts, so of course. And I regret — and I insist — that the People's Party persists in their mistakes. When in 2014 we reported that that contest was going to be a problem, it was not going to give the quality of care, it was going to be a work problem, they said exactly the same thing: that we came here alarming and that everything was under control, and time did nothing but give us reason, just as it will give us the reason we're reporting here today. And, of course, the action of the People's Party is not to carry out an analysis of what needs are, that these needs derive from accurate human and technical resources to meet those needs. No, no, no, no. The People's Party does what it does is a weight performance; then, it comes up and says, with this money, what service are you going to give me? That's what he does in this contest. And we know it from good ink. Instead of saying, you need these services, these ambulances and this staff, which says, with these money you give me a service. And that doesn't give an adequate quality of care, so you don't provide an ambulance service, a quality terrestrial health emergency service. No, it's not possible, when things are done by weight. And taking out an ambulance technician is not to improve a service, it's to make it worse, and besides, there's no health or technical justification, none. Justification is economic, shortening benefits and lowering the quality it lends, uniquely and exclusively. Which you persist in the mistake. Instead of offering the Greeks and the Greeks a quality of assistance in terms of the quality of the ground ambulance service, because they persist in a low-quality service. I'm sorry, of course. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. After the debate on the proposals, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of a proposal to implement the funds of the European Integrated Territorial Investment Strategy to help reverse the demographic regression of the Galician regions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u168	We now vote for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. There's a deal with the People's Parliamentary Group. They know her. We vote for that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the regulation of the functions of nursing technicians and the third transitional provision of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 68 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u169	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the development of a shabaril management plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u170	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez. A transaction is pending. Don't read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u171	Yes. There's a transaction between the three groups. And it would be: "The Galician Parliament urges: First of all, it meets immediately with the Platform for Families with Functional Diversity of Santiago, together with the Town Hall of Santiago and other social entities of the region that work in the wake of functional diversity, to know the needs of people with functional diversity of the area. Secondly, increase with the corresponding budget allocation the number of residential direct care squares for people with functional diversity in the Compostela region. Thirdly, urge the Government of Spain to expedite the procedures necessary to ensure the imminent launch of these uses in Cegadi".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u172	Thank you very much. We vote for that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the demands of the Platform for Families with Functional Diversity of Santiago de Compostela concerning the need to increase the number of residential squares of direct care for people with functional diversity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted with 68 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u173	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Teresa Egerique. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the impact it would have on the competitiveness of the Welsh fishing sector and the port of Vigo the application of the Instruction of the General External Health Sub-Direction for the import of frozen or processed fishing IM/1/2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u174	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Marta Rodríguez Arias. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the requirements required for the maintenance in Galicia of the large family status of a special type, as well as the recommendation made by the Central Government on this matter. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted with 68 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u175	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Maria Dolores Toja. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the development by the Government of Galicia, in the tenth legislate, of a plan to recover permits of marine exploitation especially oriented to the female sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore not adopted by 68 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u176	And finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the competition called for the adjudication of the Earth's urgent health transport service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We suspended the session until 4:30, four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u177	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with point 5 of interpellation. Interpellation by Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena, G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the implementation of a new plan for the primary care of the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u178	Mrs Miranda has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u179	Good afternoon. I feel a little fluent, and I also feel the hour. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I was saying my favorite poet, Lois Pereiro, that the worse the times we live, the more false the naivety, the less innocent the indifference and the more complicity not to compromise. You, Mr. Almuña, are badly compromised by the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. He doesn't know how to take care of the primary because he doesn't believe in it. They don't know how to focus on where it's most needed, on people and in their context, and it's much more profitable. Besides, it is known that the postal code is the most important thing. I don't know about her, but in my own, 15707, in the compostal district of the Fountains, there are girls who need the grocery bag to eat decent lunch once a day, and health can't run away from these issues; social determinants call them. So there are those who propose to incorporate a key question into the clinical history of primary care: are you having difficulty reaching the end of the month? or are you going to be able to pay for the treatment I'm giving you? In primary, generalist care is practiced, people-centred. Maybe they don't make cellophane diagnoses, but they follow people -- too much a day, without enough time -- You know if you have trouble paying for treatment, if you have conflicts with sexual orientation, if you have violence in your partner, if you have loneliness; if you follow life and also death. Primary penetrates people's homes, even in their beds; they practice palliatives, they handle chronicity; they apply the common sense in this technologicalized medicine that we so need to look at people. The primary saves one million barriers to accessibility, especially in our population, which is getting farther and older. I hope you remember that it's right in the primary where we have to do health education, because education makes people autonomous, and that fights unnecessary frequency. Do you realize that frequenting is another of the problems to be handled? It's costing a lot of health care. They turned the health system into an absolutely hospital dependent entity. Primary management has been relegated, and this is more expensive and less accessible, brings worse health outcomes and limits well-being. It's more than proven that the most solvent systems have stronger primarys, and you're working on the contrary. Let's talk about Mrs. Angustas: she has heart failure, she has arthrosis in the chairs, she's diabetic and she doesn't see the eyes for retinopathy. She's angry because she's been waiting for a consult, she's a morbid patient. I suppose it doesn't seem like an extraordinary case because it's the one that we see hundreds in our primary care consultations, it's overwhelmingly common. Do you know how many Angustias go through a primary care consultation every day? Professionals, doctors and doctors, all professionals ask for ten minutes of average per patient. It would seem excessive, but I remember that in the colorectal cancer campaign, we were blocked by schedule for fifteen minutes to attend to these patients. Can you or can't you? We don't know what to stay with. Look, Vigo's people are clear: after sitting down and talking to you they felt wrong. They've noticed that you're playing entertainment, demobilizing, and removing the question to see if it fades. Divide and you'll win is one of your peaks in human resources policy. The Galician Association of Family and Community Medicine, rose from a negotiating table in its plan and left. [[GASPS]] Go from here my acknowledgement yes, yes, don't laugh at Dr. Susana Aldecoa, an excellent professional committed. In June 2017, the Galego Medical College Council issued a report alerting about the deterioration of our health. I don't know what they did then. The only engine for change in your council, Mr. Almuña, is professional mobilization. You know that budget of the surplus, the one that sold the candy and dish a month ago as an improvement in public health, was destined for computers. It was planned to spend it in 2017, and then they had no budget for it. The one hundred and a half million surplus budget bring the percentage to 13.5%. You know there's an international consensus in estimating that the primary budget should be 25%, far from 11% Vigo and far from 13.5% on average, already incorporating that surplus. At the management level, you know that primary fragmentation follows the same conditions, even more marked among groups. The same care model, identical barriers to accessibility. You need -- and you know -- a model change, not patches. We're talking about professionals. You know, Mr. Padre, what's ending a day after you attend to 60 people? I do know. Do you know what it's like to live on a phone? I know, too. Do you want to convince me that what you're offering to professionals is worth it? It's not. "We're seeing avalanches of community doctors wanting to come to work here." He sees a single Portuguese doctor! It's embarrassing. Do you want us to make a record of the Greeks and the Greeks who stayed there to save years of precariousness? It's my generation's. I could give you a few names, but they won't come back. Mr. Almuña, they've been managing health for too many years, relying solely on professional engagement. I don't know how they can talk about care if they don't practice it with people in the house. They have a handful of potentials that solve most of their work, condemned to oppose, unable to reconcile, not to be able to choose to have children in condition, to sign hundreds of contracts. I was talking about Mr. Villares of Adriana in the morning, who had signed 800 contracts. You know that professionals are the main value of the public health system, what kind of advisors don't tell you that people are happy working better? Let's talk about the CAP. Are you aware of what you resolve? Are you aware that when there's a collapse in primary school, people go to the CAP? Are you aware that when parents and mothers don't have a pediatrician nearby, they take children and children to the CAP? Look, the people of the CAP are asking you to keep them on schedule and collect their supplements. It's nothing sophisticated, it's simple. Well, nothing, they can't. You left primary school, you didn't train enough specialists; and it wasn't casual, it was disloyal, it was negligent, it was lack of programming. They stretched their seams so far as they gave them, they thought that the professionals were holding everything... and the professionals engaged in the work, but they couldn't stand everything and they shouldn't. They don't listen to people, people on the street. They have resources for community participation but they don't use them. They don't use the area health councils, they don't use the municipal health councils in the municipalities where they govern. I don't know what scares them from participation. I don't know if they trust themselves to appear solvency by manipulating information. On the day that 90% of Vigo's health centers stopped, I was upset to see the news. They talked about the brave pig, the birth of a sheep, a stranger to whom a dog works. They could laugh but it was dramatic. It was dramatic because public health is the second cause of concern for the Greeks and the Greeks. I don't know if you think this manipulation is acceptable. I, of course, am very clear that I am with the professionals and the professionals in "defense the Galician." Congratulations! they have managed to make it the jewel of the welfare system, public health, become the second cause of concern for the Greeks and the Greeks. You don't believe in the need to look after the most vulnerable people, they don't work for the least, they work for privatization and rotational doors. And health isn't a business, Mr. Almuinho, and if we see business in public health. Look, primary detects better than anyone else's centers of exclusion, and there are. Talk to doctors in the world, for example. Apply the Reverse Care Act, read Tudor Hart. They use the most accessible professionals, which are the primary care professionals. Look, when social needs aren't covered, health needs increase, and this is found in the most permeable stratum: primary. Poorly cared mental health goes to primary, battered women go to primary. Let's take community attention over time. Addictions, poverty, vulnerability, material deficiency, malnutrition, unhealthy housing, all that affects health and is seen in primary. Invest in her, accompany her with resources. Liberalism had a price: people are consuming 200% of antidepressants more than before. And medicalizing the suffering without the presence of psychologists and social workers in health centers is a time bomb, Mr. Almuña. The only plausible primary bet is made with sufficient budgets and with own management structures, with management, not with directions. They're talking about your plan. A month of meetings, a month for a plan! Inconcretion, superficiality. They speak of consensus, but the professionals are on the street, they are still mobilized, the CAPs are still mobilized, the precariouss are still mobilized. 90% of Vigo's health centers went off last week. Don't put it in your head, Mr. Padre, that's not a consensus. The safety of patients is mentioned. Do you think you're safe to consult at all speeds? They publish home care without estimating the resources they consume. Ianus from concerted centers, I'm scared! They power service heads, but the important thing is primary care teams. We don't want to see service heads given their fingers, as they've been doing lately. Renewal of material. I'll give you a data from the Milladoiro Health Center. I talked to your doctors last week. An otoscope, it's not point technology, it's been out of work for eight months. This primary bet requires two basic and firm commitments: budgeting and professional dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u180	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u181	No money, no solvent attention. Without decent working conditions, professionals can't work with quality. We don't trust your plan, Mr. Almouniña, so we exercise our responsibility to be here today, to take control of your uncompromising work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Answer from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u183	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u184	I've already sent for the heating. I'm sorry, because I see a lot of people... No, no, quiet. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm getting a lot of suggestions that it's very cold. We're ordering the heating now. We'll be hot soon. But well, it's the same. Okay. That's it. Go ahead. Let's go to health, which is what we've seen here. Go ahead, go ahead. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We have to take good care of Members because they later have problems and end up in the health centre. So... you have to take care of them! Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we take primary care very seriously. But seriously, you did well. We didn't come up here to see if we were given the health spokesman. They don't even complain when they move our arms, our heads, everything, absolutely everything, and we've been working on it. Your health spokesperson said this document, this document that is approved and has money behind it, was a paperwork. This was the paperwork. That is to say, on the part of the opposition, by their group, there is no respect for the work performed by professionals, because this document has 200 actions suggested and presented by professionals of public health in Galicia and also by citizens of Galicia. We respect everyone absolutely. On 12 March I came to this Parliamentary headquarters to report on the proposals made, to respond to the current and future needs of primary care and to explain how we have developed the participatory process of preparing these proposals. It wasn't a month, it was months of work for all those who were involved here. Some weren't involved. Some people talk a lot in the media but then they don't participate or want to participate. I make a deal now and in the afternoon in the press they say something else and try to get rid of what they approved in the morning. But no, there were serious people, yes, very serious, who work and keep working to make the primary care really big. After months of intense work, as we say, with collaboration from all professional categories... because you talk only about some professional category, and we talk about all of them: doctors, nursing, pharmacy, physiotherapists, general services, social services, pediatricians, midwives, dental hygienists, all of them, continuous attention points doctors... We have drawn up this plan, this document, which was adopted by the Council on May 16. Through this plan we want to respond to the care challenges arising from socio-demographic and epidemiological changes. I know it's easier to make politics against public health, but this document is not a document of advisors who approve a council, but of all the professionals and of all the citizens who wanted to get involved in it. It's two hundred shares that have a timeline that says, in addition, that 40% must be done in the short term. Tell me that document at the national level is in these conditions and in operation: 33 per cent in 12 months, and 27 per cent in 24 months. We have a plan with budget, not like others, that makes a lot of plans, a lot of theory, but there's no budget; here's budget. It is EUR 102 million in three years: EUR 17.2 million for actions to increase staff; EUR 79.5 million to improve the equipment of health centres and continuing care points, and also to carry out planned or additional repairs and reforms; and EUR 5.6 million will be allocated to prevention and increase the volume of vaccine acquisition. Today we even published the bidding for the acquisition of electromedical equipment to primary health care centers of our health system. The deadline for submission of tenders is twenty days and the budget is worth 4 million euros: 475 electrocardiography devices, 261 defibrillators, 27 ultrasounds. And we're going to keep working day to day. In human resources, 17.2 million. We are going to create in the next three years 2019, 2020 and 2021 — modifying this year's initial budget — 331 new squares; creating new squares: 80 family doctors, 20 pediatricians, 4 pharmacists, 130 nursing — for us the empowerment of nursing is very important — 40 physiotherapists, 20 midwives, 14 social workers. We're also going to increase the MIR Family Medicine Squares, and if in the end the Ministry believes those squares, 27, 6 or 7 more about what we currently have. On May 17, we constituted the Technical Council for Primary Care, one of the agreements that had been reached with the various organizations, both societies and trade unions, which consists of 55 people of known prestige and professional trajectory in the field of health. Its creation is framed within the fulfilment of these agreements, and will perform advisory functions in relation to scientific, social and professional aspects in the field of primary care, from a multidisciplinary perspective. So it refers to mechanisms for the selection of heads of service... by the way, as much the finger is named some of now as someone who resigned, exactly the same; it's a system that has taken so many years, even before you started exercising, before, it hasn't changed it until now. It follows the regulations — as I say — of the year 2006 — that is, the year 2006? — which lays down the basis for the provision of posts and coordination of health institutions of the Galego de Saúde Service. Precisely, within the points to be reviewed is this type of selection. We have no drawback to do so, but today no one has done it before. From professional stability, what do we have to say? So we're doing annual OPE, the only autonomous community that makes annual OPE. And, of course, we have a stabilisation plan approved by most health unions, which, as a novelty, in 2019, in the last OP, aside from bringing to the limit the replacement rate — 108% of that replacement rate — there was an assignment of 132 educational and public service squares so that we could increase. In addition to OPE this 2019, with 1,314 squares, we take measures that all tend to improve the stability and working conditions of the staff. In the Stability Plan, as we said, we talked about 5,000 squares up to 2020; the recognition of professional careers, which is benefiting more than 22,000 professionals; the open and permanent transferer competition, and it was the first health service to put this procedure into effect throughout the entire State; the progressive extension of retirement age to 68 at this time, but which can be increased to 70 for those who voluntarily want to do so. And also the creation of possible continuing statutory appointment, signed by trade unions such as CESM-OMEGA, UXT, CISF, Satse. We have now taken 26 contracts and, of course, is being received - I believe - with joy from the professionals, knowing that conditions could be improved throughout the course of creation. Today we count on these professionals who are already integrated into the service, with stability, providing precisely coverage to the needs they have for casualties, for LD, for the vacations of other companions... Within the plan, as a goal, there is a new management structure, where there will be a primary care management that will be dedicated exclusively to primary care. I've lived through the primary care agencies and for nothing improved the integration and coordination we have and we want to have right now. The nursing, the empowerment of the family specialty and also of pediatrics to improve, and, of course, with the creation — as I said — of new squares. The modification of the roles within the care team, with that welcome that is described so that the nurses or nurses of our health system can do, with a redistribution of workloads. And also empowering and favoring the hard-covered squares, with more rating score for the time worked. They're all measures that need to be added, one by one. No one solves the problem. No one is going to give us a perfect system. It gives us a very good, excellent system, which has been working well for years, which has a high score on the part of the population, but, of course, we don't want to stand still, and in health you must never stand still. I don't want to end up without saying that it's not just the self-government you have to do. It may not even be Galicia, the Basque Country and something Canary Islands; it must be all public administrations and autonomous communities, as well as the central government, and not only to lay down duties or say that it will increase services, but also to make the necessary changes at the central government level. We are working to design a new model of primary care, which is essentially a firm commitment by people, humanization, treatment, health promotion and disease prevention, health education, health care, community work and the sustainability of a care model in which we believe and which must be maintained in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u186	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Miranda. [[Murmurs.]] We're... right now I'm going... a little quiet that you're gonna talk about. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Don't worry, Mrs. Miranda will speak now. [[Protests.]] I'm on the subject. In fact, I'm going out now to try to fix the air conditioning. I'll try to fix it. I'll see how we can fix this. [[Murmurs.]] But then don't complain about the heat! [[Laughter]] It's very difficult. The problem is that going in and out constantly is very difficult to keep a nice room temperature. [[Murmurs.]] Come on, Mrs. Miranda. Come on!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u187	That's how I like it, a multi-purpose president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u188	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u189	Your Honor, you know I'm a doctor, but I'm not going to let you tell me to speak in the voice of a single collective. I believe that I respect and consider from a maximum perspective any professional category. As always, you come to applaud your chronicle of lies and half-truths — as they say in Vigo — and it is our duty to denounce that your negotiating will only takes place when you have professionals on the street. And it's our duty also to denounce that they negotiate when they have elections. It is our duty to denounce that your commitments are void. It's our duty to report that of these 100 million of those you were talking about, only eight and a half go to primary professionals. It is our duty to denounce that of the announced squares only 12 will be for doctors and doctors, who are the most deprived collective. It's our duty to report that the primary is collapsed. And not just the primary. Look, yesterday I was called a CHUAC emergency patient, it took me two days on a stretcher, on a padiola, on an emergency corridor. Two days waiting for a plant and two days with pneumonia sharing an oxygen bomb with another patient! It's our duty to ask you for explanations. [[Murmurs.]] The doctors and doctors in Vigo have just seconded a strike, all professionals at 90%. The CAP people still don't solve their conflicts, they're still on the verge of war. They have a group of potentials that the other day in Silleda had everything black: the precarious ones. Budget expansion is a lighthouse for reproducing the material that was already scheduled for 2017; it's a lighthouse, it's for equipping computers, not for professionals. Professionals in all categories are missing. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, there's no shortage in the market of social workers, psychologists or physiotherapists; only one Portuguese doctor meets his call. One of the scientific societies of doctors and family doctors is getting away from their tables, talking about an expert committee that has no appointment. They adopt a plan with caution that has measures of skin — paper, skins, etc! — and in the very short term. They have no overview, they don't address the necessary changes, they need a model change. They keep fragmentation between levels and among professionals themselves, and they're organizing a strike on the professionals for the next June 19th. Things don't go well. It's gonna take a month for the next meeting of the technical committee. It's totally inoperative. The MIRs who finished the specialty won't all stay primary, they didn't even know how to seduce them. They couldn't bring back any of the doctors who had previously emigrated. They don't have weapons to manage the shortage of professionals, they have the angry professionals. They don't fit in their policy of abuse. They have a valuable and well-trained primary that they have to optimize, and this only solves with efficient management, with political will, with primary bet and with enough budget. There are no miracles, sir. The average of the Welsh coupons is not a valid parameter to set the overload, you have to stratify; there are quotas in Vigo of 1,800 and coupons in Lugo of 900, they are not comparable. You know they always use the most advantageous data. There is also a manifest lack of homogeneity between areas. You're not the same Vigo as Lugo center, for example. To get to that budget of what you're talking about, 25% in 2023, should bring 927 million. I don't know if they have budget forecasts to fulfill all this commitment or are empty promises. 76 pediatricians, 700 nurses, 1,700 primary professionals, 302 more doctors and family doctors in Sergas would be required to serve scores of 1,250 patients. Do you think they're willing to take on this commitment? Yes. Professionals ask for transparency, because not even the provision of squares in Sergas is public. Yesterday, too, the president of Agamfef, denounced the precarious doctors continuously. There are no structural squares, no eventuality. They're telling you Sergas's possibles. There's no need to pay for availability, because people have life and they have to reward the hard-covered squares. We have to be able to make efficient drifts. We must have autonomy in access to evidence and contact with reference professionals, to establish good contact, good harmony between primary and hospital. No mailboxes without a quote, no "we'll call it," no leave everything in the hands of the teleconsult. We need to optimize nursing professionals, who are absolutely valuable, and create squares of other categories: social workers, psychologists, physiotherapists and midwives, who are also tremendously valuable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u191	...in the health of women. Accessibility is important, but you can't assume everything that enters the door in a health center. They have to protocol their choice. They have to stratify with sociodemographic criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u193	Look: Coia, Mos, Cañiza, Ponteareas, Mondariz, Covelo, Teis, Tui, Tominiño, The Guard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u195	I don't continue because in these centers last week there was no consultation, they told them loud and clear: dignity in primary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u197	At least they don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u198	Thank you. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u199	Good afternoon again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it is curious, it accuses this counselor of lying and you know nothing but giving false data, as well as published and approved in the Council of Galicia. Why lie? Why do you say we're only talking about 12 doctors, when we're talking about 12 doctors in 2019, 29 in 2020 and 39 in 2021? Why lie? Why don't you say what this document says, where is the money, where is it? And it's because the Galician Union has done it well and has the possibility of incorporating that money that is appropriate for it to meet the criteria that mark the State Government, and uses that money for health, education and social policy. Demagoxia. Demagogy is easy, speaking has no cancellations. But we're not here for that, we're to manage, to do, of course, the service we have, which is a magnificent service, and it's not of the Galician Union, it's of all the Greeks, what they're trying to desecrate is of all the Greeks, and that, of course, they score it very well, very high, despite people like you, who use the consultation to say this type of thing and to make politics, to make politics... to use it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And we're to work, to work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll keep working. In 2018 26.6 million primary care appointments were requested in Galicia, a relatively stable figure in recent years. Of these, 14 million correspond to family doctors, 1.7 million to pediatricians, and 9 million to nursing. These figures show the important multidisciplinary activity carried out in primary care centers by different professionals, by all professionals who form the primary care team, who are integrated in these actions because they asked for it. Galicia is the sixth autonomous community with less ICT per family doctor, the sixth that less ICT has as a family doctor, and we continue to decrease. While other autonomous communities do not diminish, we continue to decline. And, of course, it's not the same average in places as elsewhere, but curiously, it's not Vigo who's got the highest half, and we're talking about half, we're talking about half. With regard to the budget for staff and operating costs, we now have the largest budget in history: EUR 4 billion. He never had this budget before, nor at the time of the Bipartite, where there were far higher budgets at the general level of the Galician Union. The primary staff expenditure budget, chapters I and II, rose in 2018 to 477 million euros, 25 million more than in 2008. And this is the biggest on the budget that was established for 2019. And we have it because the Board has committed itself to a very good management. In the last biennium, ten more radiology teams were assisted at the primary care centers of Ponteceso, Lalin, Estrada, Arzua, Noia, Viveiro, Vilalba, Sanxenxo, Cangas and Redondola, and we're still working on it. The Health Council is also betting on the creation of comprehensive health centres such as Vigo's, Taboada Leal, Lugo's, approved at the Council of June 23, Lalín, Cangas and Moaña; Cangas and Moaña, as soon as we have the plot that Lalín has already given us. In recent years we have made an important effort towards budgetary allocation for human resources. In 2008 there were 5,144, and in 2018, 5,429, an increase of 5.5%. In the report by the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health, not suspected of supporting this government, an analysis is made of the situation of primary care and it is said that the evolution of the ratio of cards per professional was descending, that by sections of population assigned in the percentage of coupons greater than 1,500 ICTs there was a considerable decrease. And the rate of pediatrics in Galicia also decreased, from 965 children per pediatrician to 941 per pediatrician. This report concludes with recommendations, of which I can say that many of them are already being complied with and others are collected in the new primary care plan. Finally, I want to thank all the people who are involved in this, who have made it possible to get here; lots of people, professionals and citizens. A plan that has a concrete budget, concrete actions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u201	...and concrete goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u202	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Miranda, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u203	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Counsellor just questioned my professional ethics, he just said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u204	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u205	I'm in the use of the word, please. I've just said I've been spreading or spreading lies since my consultation. Counselor, in my consultation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u206	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u207	...I have always exercised professional ethics. I'm telling you more: I didn't have time to spread lies, Counselor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u208	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u209	...he had more than forty patients a day. I ask you, please, to withdraw this and restore my professional honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u210	Let's try to follow the procedure. When the word is used, it says whether it's alluded to or whatever. You've already done your shift, so... I'm explaining. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. You've already made the allusion that you feel alluded to and I suppose you'll understand it's an understatement. From the Presidency I understand that saying that to make politics in the consultation, there are other much better expressions, but it's not in... sorry, sorry, I'm now in the use of the word, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, Mr. Sánchez... Mr. Sánchez, we are now about to start the questions! Mr. Sánchez, be quiet, please. Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Sánchez, please. Please. That's it, that's it. Okay, it's explained. Well, it doesn't seem like you either. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your partner has already intervened and has already explained the matter. He doesn't need anyone to defend her. All right, it's ready. I understand that this is no harm to his professionalism or much less, which is above all that. That's right, you can certainly use other expressions, by all of you, much better. So we're going to continue the debate. Thank you all very much for trying to help. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, that's it. There's nothing to clarify, Counselor. No, there's nothing to clarify. No, there's nothing to clarify because... No, because it's not mentioned. [[Murmurs.]] That's it, we've explained it. [[Mr. Health Counsellor, Vázquez Almuínña, utters words that are not perceived.]] Of course, Counselor, of course, of course, I said so. You don't have to explain it anymore, I said so. We turned to the following two interpellations. Thank you very much for helping. [[Murmurs.]] Interpellations 5.2 and 5.3 you know you've retired, there were no withdrawal writings. So we moved on to questions to the Government. First of all, do we start with questions or do we want to have another debate? [[Murmurs.]] If you want to have another debate, you can go out and have plenty of room to do more debates for sure than very good. No, no, I'm sure you can step up that debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet, please! They won't let you ask the question, I'm sorry. Miss Patricia Otero Rodríguez's question and three more... Oh, sorry! It's not you. I'm sorry. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadline set by the Government of Greece for the empowerment, in the Court of Violence on the Woman, of Viveiro, of a worthy space as a waiting room for battered women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u211	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u212	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome, Mr. Rueda. The truth is, we're kind of worried about the answer he gave us today. And I'm saying we're kind of worried about the attitude that the President of the Galician Union has maintained throughout this election campaign. Because the president of the Galician Union came to Viveiro, like the other municipalities of Galicia, blackmailing the neighbors and the neighbors. Mr. Feijóo conditioned the improvement of a vial, of the Vial Vial Vial Vial Vial Vial Vial Vial-Capreiros, to which he had won his candidate. And regretting that by the neighbors of Viveiro, this improvement will not be affected, since it was not contemplated in the budgets of the Union and also Maria Loureiro will continue to be the mayor of Viveiro, since the neighbors of Viveiro voted against sectarianism and the caciquil way in which Mr. Feijóo conceives politics. [[Applause]] What Mr. Feijóo came to do in Viveiro was openly acknowledgement that he has been discriminated against and punishing the neighbours of Viveiro because he doesn't like the rule of the PSdG, because he doesn't like the government of María Loureiro. Look, the Violent Court on the woman, of Viveiro, at the Trial of First Instance and Instruction No. 2, of Viveiro, lacks a decent space to give comfort and anonymity to battered women who step in to denounce their aggressors. The room in which victims of marine gender violence await is nothing other than the space destined for the civilian section archive; a small space, with hundreds of accumulated archives, with little and old furniture, with moisture and that does not offer the privacy and anonymity needed by the victims. No privacy, because as the officials themselves recognize, they have to come in and out of this room frequently to look for documentation. This intimacy and anonymity is not guaranteed, since these judicial proceedings must be carried out in unity of action and, therefore, there is the possibility, with the consequent risk, that the victim and the aggressor cross the judicial building, a situation qualified as indecent not only by this Socialist Group, but also by the staff of the court. In this way, at the Local Bureau for Coordination against Gender Violence of the Council of Livestock, dated April 12, this year, representatives of the Violent Court on the Women of Livestock filed a petition with the Bureau to request from the General Directorate for Justice of the Council of Galicia the authorization of a decent space. This could be fixed, it only needs political will on the part of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, and with little economic cost. Because, as you well know, after the processing of the corresponding file, the transfer of free use was agreed to in favour of the Presidency Council, Public Administrations and Justice of several municipal premises on the immovable site next to the trial itself. This free transfer communication was communicated in December 2015 to the Galician Union, and today, May 29, 2019, the Living Town Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u213	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u214	...—ending, Mr President—it is still waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u215	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u216	That's why we ask you today, when you've thought of the German Government enabling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u218	...in the Women's Court of Violence, in Viveiro, a space worthy as a waiting room? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u219	Thank you very much. I ask the technical services to put the counter on the screen because they just told me it wasn't seen and here it was over. Can you put it on? [[Murmurs.]] The president's settling the matter... The vice president and councillor, public administrations and justice have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, since I didn't have the counter, I thought it was going to end the time and I wouldn't ask myself about gender violence. Speaking of what they always talk about when they ask about gender-based violence, they ask about everything but that, showing what they always care about this subject. I don't say they don't care, but they always care, casually, more, much more. It's always the same, trying to make party politics when it comes to gender-based violence. You again today did exactly the same thing, I'm not going to fall on it itself and I'm going to answer exactly what you ask me. Well, look, the spaces will be enabled this same year. I think we had to be faster. Now, in any case, four years the Concello de Viveiro to give us the places! So, you ask me for a speed that I recognize we have to have, but four years to make a assignment that was necessary in order to do the works... I would like speed to be by both sides! I think this is seeing the ball in the alien eye and not realizing that it's been four years to do a simple procedure. We're asked for works to do, it's our obligation, and I think that should also be taken into account. In any case, it was a shame, because, if they were faster at the Living Town Hall, we invested 300,000 euros in 2015 and all the works could be done at the same time, and right now that work would be done, I insist, totally necessary, so we're going to do it this same year. Anyway, I take advantage of making a general request here — and you, as a member of the Socialist Party, I suppose you will have an interview with those who carry these issues in Madrid —: in the State Covenant against Gender Violence we could have and are necessary, to do these works, money to invest and make these separate rooms in all the courts. They're already made in many, and you have to do them in more, among them in Viveiro, as I told you this year. It's a pity that, for whatever reason -- and all autonomous communities, not just those of the PP -- it's an objective necessity -- that if you can dedicate that money -- it's very good to devote them to a series of activities that often have to do with advertising and with a series of similar activities -- but that you can't do those works, you don't know why. So I think this is a good opportunity to claim again that the Galician Union will fulfil these obligations, but it would be much easier, much easier and much faster if the money that is available in the State Covenant against Gender Violence could also be used for this purpose. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u221	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u222	Mr. Rueda, you tell us you're going to set this place up this year. First they sign the assignment of that free use. But just remind him of one thing: yesterday his group voted against an initiative by the Socialist Group, in which we urged, precisely, the improvement of this waiting room for victims of gender-based violence. So they are a little coherent, more coherent between the parliamentary group and the Galician Union. He blames the Viveiro Town Hall, but look: it is that the Viveiro Town Hall transferred this free transfer agreement in December 2015. We're ending May 2019, what have you been doing for these three and a half years? Why didn't they answer the Living Town Hall? It's just that we need political will and collaboration between different administrations, regardless of whether we like the political color that's ruling in the municipalities. Besides, with little economic effort, that waiting room could be improved for the victims of gender-based violence in the Viveiro trial. Let's face it when we make politics. Well, here we came to make politics. But what we also find very sad is that if you were using the Galician board to support and empower your candidates during these election campaigns, and leave them already because you didn't give them very good results. They govern for and for all the Galicians and the Greeks, regardless of the municipality in which they live and regardless of whom they govern those municipalities. And we're going to take the floor and we're going to be very careful to formalize that transfer agreement and to do the necessary works to enable that waiting room as a worthy room for victims of gender violence. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, have the floor for the Government's replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, what I told you at first: you are incapable, you are incapable, of not mixing politics with a matter as serious as this. They can't resist. They think it acts by these criteria when we talk about gender-based violence, so it's very difficult to explain to them things that are not able to see. If not, I don't understand very well why they didn't admit the amendment we were having yesterday, which talked about exactly what you were asking for, it was to enable before the end of this year 2019 a space worthy as a waiting room for the Viveiro trial and everything else you know. He didn't want to admit it. So don't come here now to cheat the lonely saying why we vote against when we propose exactly the same thing you're saying here. So, man, be a little serious. [[Applause]] In any case, I told him that the Council of Galicia probably had to be more diligent in doing these works. It took us two years for some procedures that include the execution of works and it took you four years, just to make the assignment. And, if you want us to be quick and fulfill our commitment, please tell the Viveiro Council -- which I know you have a conversation with them -- that they respond to the papers we asked you a few days ago, and that you haven't answered the Viveiro Council yet. It will be necessary to meet the deadline this year, Mrs Otero! By the way, don't ask me for speed when your county took four years to make the assignment. But don't worry that this year will be done, just as many more will be done. And don't tell me about political colors when doing the works. We have already made these separations in all cities — and in all cities they do not rule the PP. In many villages already made, can I tell you some: In the boat rules the PP? The separation between victims and aggressors is already made in court proceedings; in Cambados, I don't think, either; and in Verín, I don't think... and they're made there, they're made in those municipalities, in half or even govern the PP. We're going to do it in twelve municipalities this year, including Viveiro. In many of them, the truth is, I don't know whether to govern the PP or not. These are needs that we can make and... claims: twelve plus the next year and twelve plus the next year, in total thirty-six trials where these separate rooms will be enabled. And while, of course, we're not cross-armed. You know that there are citation protocols to different hours of victim and aggressor so there can be no coincidence. You know that Amtega is making a special effort on the Administration of Justice Plan to deploy video conferencing rooms in all the judicial parties, and in many of them several video conferencing rooms. Where there is video conferencing is precisely to prevent the physical displacement of the victim who has to be declared. So we're doing things, and we're going to do a lot more -- I insist -- thirty-six works for the separation of victims and aggressors in thirty-six judicial parties in Galicia over the next three years, starting with this one, which adds to what's already done. No partisanism. If I had become partisan, probably the Galician Union would have done nothing right now and we would be in an absurd speech that the victims enjoy nothing, and that we're not going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u225	Thank you very much. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. de En Marea, on the actions being carried out at Junta de Galicia to meet the demands of the workers of Transport Pacholo, S.L., subcontracted for the provision of the urban waste collection service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u226	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u227	Good afternoon. I wanted to start by greeting the Pacholo Transport workers, who I think are in the guest gallery, three of them recently dismissed by the company in retaliation for the demands they have kept in time. Transport Pacholo is a subcontract from the UTE that has obtained the contract of transport from trash to Sogama, makes road transport from the transfer plants to Sogama. And they've been complaining for a long time, and reporting, serious violations of the requirements of recruitment, serious breaches of what the legislation says about the transport of waste. For example, they report that containers fill with water with a view to achieving greater weight; hence, they increase the risk of accidents due to the destabilization of trucks and water contaminates the medium with leachates. They are complaining that there are no measures to prevent leaching in the whole system. They also report that hospital waste is transported without the mandatory security measures, without complying with the protocols corresponding to this type of material. Trucks are overloaded by more than 20 percent, which increases the profits of companies, but also increases the risk of accidents and consequently risks to road safety. And neither is proper maintenance done to the containers, and therefore they are leached. The conditions for cleaning trucks do not comply with the conditions laid down in the contract or with the contract signed with Sogama. All this is complaints that workers have been making for a long time and that they have finally triggered, in the face of the lack of attention to these demands, a strike that has been taking place for forty-four days. Sogama is a society in which the Union has about fifty-one percent participation and therefore we believe that the Greek Government cannot look elsewhere at this labour conflict, which is more than just a labour conflict. It's the possibility, according to workers, that this company, which is charging a million-dollar contract for road transport, is not complying with the requirements of the contract, with the legislation, and is polluting, endangering the lives of people and the working conditions of these workers. With public money you can't be taking advantage of companies to make workers precarious and to make services precarious by a public company. So we want to ask you today whether there has been dialogue with the workers, whether they are aware of this situation, what the assessment of this situation is and, above all, what they intend to do, and whether they have done some sort of monitoring during this time to check whether the complaints of the workers are true or not and to settle them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, as you know and as you know the great majority — I suppose — the labour conflict you refer to in your question is being approached at the very best of places, which is the scenario we count on for this sort of thing and to solve it, which is the Galego Labour Relations Council. It's the best we can do because that's where they sit and are urged to dialogue; dialogue where, until now, since the strike started on April 15th, five meetings between the parties took place to try to reach positions and offer solutions. It was five mediation meetings that ended, for now, without agreement, even though at the negotiating table they are offering wage and labor improvements, as well as the relocation of the eight workers who were fired. What does Junta do? I asked you. For he is urging dialogue, calling for dialogue between the parties and working, as far as possible, to find the best possible solution for all. However, it must be made clear that this is a work conflict between third parties in which the Galician Union is not involved, since there is no direct contractual relationship with the company concerned, i.e. not invoiced by the company concerned. In fact, the conflict is strictly linked to the relations between the workers and the company — which you mentioned — which is Transport Pacholo, which is a subcontract of the adjudicatory of the combined transport service of the Sogama model since 2016, and for a period of ten years, which led to UTE Renfe-Copasa, so they are not direct workers of Sogama. What we do, from the Galician Union, we see with concern — of course — this labour conflict; first, because they are people and then because we have to give a service to other people, and the impact it has on the service offered to the citizen. That's why we hope that a solution to this question will be reached and that work relationships can return to normal now that elections have been completed. So I want to take advantage to make a call, a call to understanding the parts, thinking of the common good — and the common good is that of the workers, and the common good is that of the Greeks and the Greeks — and thus reaching an agreement that ends a strike that has extended, as I said, along these two election calls. Besides, I want to thank the staff and the rest of Sogama contractors for their efforts. Thanks to this, the trash is being managed as best as possible in the installations of this public enterprise. A company that has among its objectives to promote a transport of waste that is more respectful of the environment and therefore more sustainable. And, of course, when there are complaints, those allegations are evaluated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u231	...by the administration, and if I'm on trial, it's no longer up to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u232	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u233	Counselor, you don't seem to have listened. I know there's a job conflict and it's being talked about at the Galego Labour Relations Council, and it looks very good to us. But there are also allegations of breach of the terms of the contract, one of Mr. Feijóo's biggest government contracts, millionaire contract. Therefore, the German Government has an obligation to ensure that it lends itself to the conditions described in the terms of the contract, because if you are not doing a favor to the company and if you are harming the general interest. That's why I asked you if you've done some sort of control to see if all these complaints that the workers bring and you know, that you see in these photographs, for example, by looking into the leached medium and polluting the medium, or the conditions in which the containers are here -- as you see, that there is no proper maintenance -- or, for example, that the health wastes of the Sigre plan are not properly transferred, etc., if that's what you're doing right. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows some photographs to the members of the House.]] That's your job and that's what you need to answer here, and not come talking about elections. They manifest themselves with all the right of the world to claim something that you, like the German Government, should do and should worry them. You can't remain as equidistant in the face of complaints as serious as the workers are. They have to check and require the company to comply with the terms of the contract, Counsellor, because, if not, the subcontract, in addition to serving as a precaution of the working conditions of these workers subsequently hired to this contract, it also serves to avoid the public administration controls, which is to disallow itself from the provision of a public service, Counsellor. That's your responsibility and I expect concrete answers to what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. For the Government's replication turn, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u235	Thank you. Mr. Sánchez, the Union has no legitimacy to engage in a collective conflict that affects a company that is not Sogama. On the other hand, I mean you don't use the workers. They don't use workers because in the end they're their jobs, and in the end it's a problem for them, and it's a problem, too, for the rest of society. I believe, of course, that every complaint addressed to the Environment Council and every complaint addressed to the corresponding Directorate-General is analysed. He said it earlier and said it again: five meetings were made. It's just that you're now talking about complaints, complaints that are analyzed, and I'm telling you not only complaints, but I'm talking about work conflict. And the labour conflict is being analyzed at the place where the labour conflict should be analyzed, which is in the corresponding general direction at the Galego Labour Relations Council. And he said earlier: I hope they come to an agreement, because it's good to come to an agreement; firstly, for the workers, who have families and who have their jobs and a payroll, and also for the rest of society. In this mediation forum, wage and labour improvements are being offered, and the relocation of the eight workers. Some improvements and relocations that are not being accepted, or at least they are not being accepted as a whole. In parts there is an unmovable position and at some point they will have to move one another. What is not admissible, on the one hand, is the allegations, if they were certain, that, of course, they are analyzing and corroborating, and on the other hand, the incidents. The incidents that have occurred throughout these days are not admissible, but they are not admissible neither to them, because they can harm them, nor to the rest of society. And here I have to tell you that, as soon as those complaints come, copies of more than 20 complaints have arrived to the Civil Guard for assaults on trucks and damage to facilities, which harm the service and harm the activity, but above all they can put human lives at risk, and that's not to be allowed. That's why I want to make a call from here to tranquility. But when I say quiet, I also want to make a call to the different political groups, because what we have to do is let them negotiate and not throw more wood into the fire, because they are often the harmed ones when we want to put ourselves next to something that, in the end... the solution comes more or less given, but what we want is to try to be okay. Look, we can be all right and we can work. And that's what we've been doing since Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u237	However, they will have met with information because the President of Sogama will appear next week in Commission 2nd to answer all kinds of questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u238	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. de In Marea, on the state of processing in which the administrative procedure corresponding to the project to reopen the Touro mine, in the county of Pino, in relation to the deadlines laid down in Law 21/2013 of 9 December, of environmental assessment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u239	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u240	Counsellor, is that workers can be harmed by my questions a threat? It's no longer enough for the company to threaten the workers and fire the workers in retaliation, but from the German Government — which did not watch the company — you threaten not to move, not to claim; it's better to be still. [[Applause]] Well, if they didn't move and they didn't claim, you weren't negotiating to readmit them and admit them or re-acquisition them, Counselor. We're in a democracy, which is something more than voting every four years. So don't threaten. That's not acceptable, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u241	Quiet, then there will be a turn. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u242	Counselor, if you don't want to hear certain things, don't come. [[Laughter]] More than two years ago... I'm not lying, I've just threatened the workers and said I'm not lying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're already experts... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u243	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u244	...in retaliation of workers exercising their rights, as on Galician Television.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u245	Mr. Sánchez, don't try to have a parallel debate. No one here threatened anyone. Continue with the question. Silence! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u246	Well, more than two years ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u247	No one here threatened anyone. It's already explained, Mrs. Prado. It's explained, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u248	Well, they denounce the company. For more than two years, the administrative procedure for reopening the Touro mine has begun. It remains unfinished, despite all the time spent and despite the fact that the characteristics of the project are incompatible with security for people and for environmental sustainability and that they represent a threat for many years to the region and to the municipalities where it will settle. It is part of an extractive model that impoverishs the countries where they settle to enrich multinationals in the short term. But today, what we want to ask you today is for the deadlines set out in Law 21/2013, of environmental assessment, for the expiry of the procedure for approving the declaration of environmental impact. Article 33.4 of the law states: "The technical analysis of the environmental impact file and the formulation of the environmental impact declaration shall be carried out within four months, as from the full reception of the environmental impact file. This period may be extended for additional two months due to justified, duly motivated reasons." On October 4, 2018, according to the information available to us, it began with the process of formulating the environmental impact declaration and, therefore, we understand that it also started running this four-month period, plus two options. They also tell us that on 21 February this year, the company requested that the procedure be stopped for a period of four months. We don't know if the German Government has authorized this suspension. We assume that it is because, otherwise, it would have to have decreed the expiry of the procedure because it exceeded the time limits laid down in Article 33. We want to know if you've authorized or not, and we also want to know why you don't decree once and for all the expiry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u250	...this procedure or why they don't already give a folder to an environmentally unfriendly project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. I want to make it clear that there is no threat here. If I had interpreted a threat from some member of the plenary, logically, it would have been warned. I'm telling you to make it clear that there are no threats of any kind and, as we know what this is about, you also know what I'm talking about. What there are are interventions, sometimes, that look for problems where they don't exist. But thanks for trying to get the debate right. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. Poor workers if the information gives it to you, because that's how they twist it, and in the end, that's the result. Let's focus on the processing of the Touro mine and, therefore, let's get to know the answer according to your question. First of all, the German Government and this council defend strict compliance with the law, and this principle is why we guide ourselves to the Touro mine and to each of the files entering the Environmental Council. As you know, in environmental processing projects have to be submitted to a procedure. It is a long procedure, which can be either simplified or ordinary, and we are in the ordinary procedure. This law makes a procedure for adjusting all projects received, which are treated with the same impartiality and at the same time depending on the type of projects. Currently, the Touro mine project is found in the ordinary environmental assessment process by compiling documentation: the corresponding technical reports and the necessary information. The chronology, in addition, I'll tell you next. First, May 2017, it is sent from the Mines General Directorate to the project documentation to qualify and initiate public processing. July 2017, the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality qualifies the project as being subject to regular environmental impact assessment. August 2017, the public information of the project is started. October 2018, after the exhibition has been completed, the documentation of the environmental file is received. November 2018, we've been asking for new documentation from the environment, since when we received it, it's not the complete file. December 2018, publication of Law 9/2018, amending Law 21/2013, which includes new documentation to be brought to the promoter in the impact assessment procedure. February 2019, the additional documentation requested is received. March 2019, after reviewing all the information, the promoter is required for new documentation on risk prevention. At that time, the deadline for processing the environmental impact declaration is suspended pending receipt of all the requested documentation, information that we have not yet received. Let's step by step. We follow compliance with the law of environmental procedure. We are carrying out legally demanding processing and we are doing so with maximum environmental guarantees and public participation. I hope he remains justified in what process is being processed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u253	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u254	Counsellor, it was unclear, because the documents of the Galician Board say on February 21th, the Cobre San Rafael calls for the suspension of the deadline for processing the environmental impact declaration for a four-month period. I want to know if you have responded positively to this request for suspension, because the deadline was about to be met to decree the expiry of the procedure according to the law, since on October 4, 2018 the documentation is referred to Environmental Quality for the start of the environmental impact declaration. According to the chronology - see? - of the Galician Union, this period began in October 2018. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a document to the members of the House.]] Therefore, just before the four-month deadline is met, the company asks for the suspension of the procedure for four months, because if it hadn't passed that deadline. So we believe that, if the Board has authorized it here, it has authorized the suspension for four months. And if not, tell us also that it will decree the expiry of the procedure by exceeding the deadlines set by law. Because it's good that you're defending a mining model like the project to reopen the Touro mine: a impoverished project, a impoverished model for this country, which creates little wealth and little employment and poses a threat to the future. But another thing is that you don't follow the law. Because you're talking about strict compliance with the law, but you know that the outline of the old Touro mine shows that you didn't enforce the law to the company, so it's contaminated with the outline. So answer if the requirement of Copper San Rafael you have been authorized to suspend the proceeding for four months. It's very simple, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u256	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, we don't defend any models. We defend legality, but do you urge me to tell you illegalities? Well, no. What I did was break up month by month, chronologically, when we received the documentation and what we did. What else do you want me to tell you? So far, I'm going to read, I see perfectly and deafly I'm not! [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a document to Mrs. Environmental Counsellor, Territory and Living from his chair.]] And, you, as you also know how to read, and neither deaf is! I've been breaking up month by month, which is what you've been doing to the Council of Galicia. Therefore, no illegality; compliance with the law, absolutely everything. Better or worse projects do not exist for the Galician Union. There are just some technicians who comply with the law, no less or less. What's going on in Touro? Well, they're sanctioning the past and right now. That's what's going on. So once again, I'm telling you, processing according to the regulations. I think we need to be careful in the statements that are made. Because I know you can say anything here, but it shouldn't be like that. I mean, when we make statements, man, at least we don't have to say the opposite; then we get nervous and start screaming because we don't want to recognize what we said a while ago. We therefore show that, if there is compliance, the reports are favourable and that, if there is non-compliance, the reports are unfavorable. Let me give you some examples: Santa Icía, in Arteixo, a project of which last week, on May 20, I put dates, we issued negative DIA; the Orders dump, to which we denied its request in May this year after the Town Hall's Urban Incompatibility Report; Toysal's project, in Teo, where it happened the same as in Orders, and the processing was stopped after the Town Hall's negative report; or the Lousame dump project, which in May 2018 we issued negative DIA for its possible negative effects on the environment. These are realities, aren't they? With which, what happens, that the same technicians who report this will report otherwise? Let them do their job. Just like I told you earlier to let them make the relationships that they have to do, which are the workers, the unions and the company. Because the politicians in the midst of the weak end, we do them a favor. And in this sense, we're here for the change of laws or to continue with the same laws. As long as we have these laws, you know how to act. So, with regard to the work of administration technicians, which are the ones that analyze projects with the utmost rigour, with discretion, and work with the utmost regard to the current legislation. So I don't know if you're asking me to skip the legal procedure. If so, believe me you won't count on me. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u257	Thank you. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u258	Allow me to change, if you agree, because the next question was from the Cultural Counsellor, but it took an unexpected moment and it took a few minutes to arrive. If you think so and the author agrees, we jump to the next question, at 7.6. [[Assentment.]] Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of In Marea, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to settle in the short term the demands of professionals of the continuing attention points
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u259	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u260	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Mr. Almuinha. Unfortunately, and more than a year after fruitless conversations by the professionals of the continuing attention points seeking the fulfilment of an agreement dated in 2010 with the Health Council, today we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u261	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u262	...today we have to bring this issue back here after multiple plenary sessions and health committees, which unfortunately despite the initiatives of the various opposition groups, despite the protests and despite a strike that already goes in eight months between the indefinite and the previous months and the previous days, have had no effect. Because you remain impassioned at professional demands that in no case are exceptional work improvements, but this is the fulfilment of agreements that you signed in 2010, and that unfortunately, almost a decade later, they remain unfulfilled and that they also imply a situation that, as their lords are aware, derived in the summer months from a disastrous result, as was the death of a person at an ongoing point of attention. We have already remembered on several occasions that this was not unfortunately an exceptional situation, but that this discovery of the continuing points of attention is usually made. And eight months off after, and twelve months after the talks, they have to be professionals demanding mediation from the Public Service because you are unable to sit with them and them. As we remind you at some point, you do not comply with article 5 of the Royal Decree Law 17/1977 on employment relations. You don't recognize a strike committee you're forced to negotiate with. And that situation produces not only that these people take so many months without the power or even make shift changes, without being able to adjust their usual life to their schedules, but that, in addition, the situation remains unresolved, with the problem of summer approaching and, therefore, the cuts in the non-covery of primary care professionals will cause, as always, to increase these consultations even further at the continuing attention points. And, therefore, professionals are concerned not only because you don't meet but because of a situation that doesn't want to be repeated, a risk situation as happened in 2018. So, Mr. Almuño, we want to know when you're going to answer these questions to this situation of absolute inoperability on your part, in which you don't even sit and negotiate with the professionals at the points of continued attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u264	Good afternoon. The continuing attention points were created by Decree No. 172/1995 of 18 May, and the Emergency Plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is hereby approved to provide urgent health care in the field of primary care. The adoption of this decree led to a remarkable advance in the attention of the emergencies in Galicia. Since the Galician Health Service, we have been holding numerous meetings so that we can reach agreements with staff of continued attention points. The vast majority of the claims have been handled. It is not true — as the honourable Member has said — that we do not recognize the strike committee. We recognize him perfectly, we sit with them. And we also take him to the sectoral table, which is also an area - we believe - important for reaching agreements. At this point, we maintain the proposal offered to the continuing attention points, and we accept nine of the eleven measures put forward by the trade union organisations, a clear proof of the negotiating will of this Council. Of the last improvements incorporated into the proposal of the representatives of the CAP, it highlights the increase in pay for evenings on holidays and Sundays, which you said was normal. No, this was because of the situation we were in because of the economic problem of this country, because of some left-wing governments that did not contemplate what was the sustainable economy, but it was a matter of increasing debt. And we got to a situation where action had to be taken. Measures have been taken to paralyze this type of plugin, and are now being recovered. This is one of them and, as I say, it's inside the offer we have on the table. And there was even a misunderstanding at that table but then the assembly did not accept it. So we are negotiating, we are making proposals that seem reasonable. In addition to the improvements already included in other proposals, there is the opening of two Sunday and holiday maintenance diets, which has expanded as soon as the service is 24 hours. The request for adequate uniformity was also met, with a unique corporate image and individual protective equipment. There was another claim, too. It is the professional's greater participation in the setting of service objectives, which may be part of it; or the application of neutrality in situations of temporary disability and paid permits. All of this, as I say, has been accepted and is within the proposed agreement. With regard to the increase in staff, the guarantee of reinforcements of professionals that are necessary has been accepted, taking into account objective criteria, such as overburden, dispersal, displacement and other circumstances that justify it. We also accepted the provision of complete equipment for professionals, medicine or nursing, and the realization in the last quarter of the year of an analysis of the staffing of new squares in the global framework of primary care. Precisely the document approved by the Galician Union a few days ago, it speaks of increased staff, which incorporates ordinary primary care and also attention to urgency and CAP. And so we're going to keep working, and we think we can make a deal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u265	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u266	...if there's any will on the side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u267	Thank you. Mrs. Solla's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u268	They pay you the whole day you work? I'm asking, I'm asking. Don't you get paid? You owe the president of the Galician Union, too? Because the professionals have been waiting for them to pay for their holidays and nights, and they're not paying them. Look, it's not a gift that a person pays his full salary. They're the only professionals who don't charge 100 percent of their salary. Do you think this is something to negotiate? Does that sound normal to you? You must be nearly ten years of 20 percent of the salary of the professionals. What are you telling us here, if you didn't give them back a single penny? Answer the law! The only thing you have to articulate the dialogue is the strike committee. Article 5 of Royal Decree Law 17/1977 states: "It is up to the strike committee to participate in trade union, administrative or judicial actions.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It's the third time you've been denied a meeting. They only have two requests in May. You don't answer the emails. And no, it's not true, nor have they returned what they owe them -- they should pay back the wages they owe the workers -- and they didn't agree to put in complete equipment. More importantly, the professionals, in the face of the pressure that summer might come, even told you that they would accept only to cover the nursing, where there are medical professionals who don't have a nursing partner or registered nurse, who aren't complete equipment; that is, they don't duplicate themselves anymore. But not even that. Not only do you agree to the demands of professionals -- eight months off! -- but you don't even want to sit down and negotiate. That's the reality! And you have several unanswered emails, Mr. Almuña, that people are awaiting this debate. So what they have to do is sit down and move the needs that professionals demand into reality. Summer is coming, Mr. Almuño, and we can't be with the CAP with discoveries as it happened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u270	...on election day, Mr. Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u271	Thank you. Your time is up. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we keep negotiating and we keep working. It's not a question of an e-mail that is sent to the advisor but this follows a negotiation route. We sit down and we're very worried about this situation and about anyone else who comes up in the health service. As I say, we have just approved a primary care plan that also includes urgent care — the CAPs are in this development. And logically, all the accepted points have to have an end, a moment of signature. And as I say, there were preconceived ones. We sit with the strike committee, sit with the sectoral table. There was a misunderstanding. He went to the assembly and there was no agreement. And, in fact, there had to be some problem, because several members of the strike committee resigned, who were not in agreement with not approving what they had negotiated on the table as something favorable. So the agreements are global and we want to make a global agreement, which, if we can sign in a week, is signed in a week. But the problem is that sometimes there are agreements on the table that are not ratified. We're going to continue because we're interested in making, and of course, we've been negotiating these and many other agreements. It's not that we owe money that we don't pay. These are suspended agreements coming from a joint negotiation several years ago, where the professional career was approved. A number of improvements have been approved on the situation, which, as I say, came from an economic crisis at European Union level and, in particular, from Spain. Because, as I say, the governments at that time did not make the decisions they had to make and we had to pay the rest of the autonomous communities the consequences. So we're open to negotiating. We're still working. We have a paper on the table and, of course, we would like to make it possible as soon as possible and close these differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u273	Thank you, Counselor. We then resumed the agenda as it was... If there's no inconvenience, we're still healthy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are we still healthy? That's perfect, so we make up all those health care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's been this little change here. Then we recovered now, and also we recovered the temperature, by step. I see this is more pleasant. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to cover the squares of doctors vacated by retirement in the primary care of the district of Valdeorras
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u274	Well, then we're going with Mrs. Noa Presas's question of the Galician Nationalist Block. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u275	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the floor, but especially for returning us to an assumed temperature so as not to be without voice. Today we ask again about a question that concerns us since the Nationalist Block Galego and that we have already brought to this House, which is the deterioration of our public health; in particular, in the district of Valdeorras. I want to remember that this region has suffered and suffers from a long history of bad practice by its council: economic and personnel cuts, cuts also in management and autonomy, with the reform of the Health Act, and also serious cases such as the forgery of guard parts in the Barco hospital; forgery, by the way, of what you voted against studying in this very Parliament. You are preventing, from our point of view, that in practice a man or woman in Valdeorras has a health care in terms of equality, and that has an answer in the street that you are no longer able to hide. We have the case of Rubiá, for example, that since August they have claimed that this retired doctor is replaced. A few hours have been strengthened, but it's clearly insufficient. That's why Rubiá's neighborhood picked up signatures and began to manifest itself on the first Saturday of each month too to demand conditional attention. They also have cases like the street health center. Every week, every Monday since February 4th, they concentrate on improvement in this area of our country. There are already 17 calls with this same Monday. And they also have the recent incorporation of the Barco health center, which, too, is full of the deterioration in the Waldenorressa primary health, they have just started mobilizations every Monday as well. But there's not only in these municipalities that there's a misunderstanding. We can also remember the mobilizations of Vilamartín on his day to recover also a medical square, or we can remember those of Viana do Bolo, for different reasons, such as poor pediatric care, or that third medical square this week is covered but most of the year is not. And in this part of the territory, in addition, we insist that we take into account that they are increasingly large and pluripathological patients, and that cannot be measured only in cartridges as if we were machines. But to this we also have to add the mobilizations because of the lack of staff you've had in the hospital. Today, the Barco Hospital is still not functioning in Hado, home hospitalization is not functioning because of lack of personnel; there is a lack of staff that repeatedly causes the Special Emergency Zone of Veiga-O Bolo to remain unmet, dividing itself between that Veiga depends on Viana and O Bolo from the boat. This is an unacceptable issue, because it's supposed that a specialist has to meet seven hundred square miles. So, Counselor, today we asked you from the BNG you're going to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u277	...to begin to cover this shortage of staff in the district of Valdeorras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u279	The truth is, they're very congregated in several groups; it's very good. Mr. President, thank you very much. For us, of course, the comarcial hospitals and the districts of Galicia are very important, despite these slogans used in different electoral campaigns that we will close the comarcial hospitals. That's been a long time ago; they're going to see if there's anything left. We, however, manage to give the best service and bring more and more services to citizens. I think it's something we said on more than one occasion, and we passed a law precisely to strengthen all the districts of Galicia. This new ambulance contract, for example, also confirms that we take better services to remote places so that citizens don't have to do a lot of miles to be cared for. Thanks to the best coordination of resources and personnel that has enabled the implementation of the Sergas integrated management model, in the last five years, patients in Valdeorras have avoided close to 40,000 travels to Ourense to consult or to make diagnostic tests of specialties that up to that date only were offered at the University Hospital Complex of Ourense, such as cardiology, digestive, endocrinology, neurology, oncology and rheumatology. In addition, this organizational model allows to solve the usual problem in many centres to cover their optional staff frameworks, especially in certain specialties that do not have professionals available in the labour market or that opt for higher population health centres, so that this timely lack of self-employees does not affect the daily care activity or patients. In this way, in recent years, the care activities of the Hospital in Valdeorras were normally maintained even in services that, in the face of low work, permits or the transfer of some specialists, faced problems in accepting demand and the usual activity for non-relief personnel; we speak of Pediatrics, Anesthesia, Urology, Rehabilitation, Preventive Medicine, Hematology, Surgery or Pathological Anatomy, who counted for their care activities with support from the staff of the Ourense Hospital. Besides, it also helps us that younger specialists can go to a comarcal knowing that we're going to be able to offer the possibility of attending the big hospital too on some day of the week. Precisely, the reform of the Health Act aimed to ensure by law the care activity in the comarcal hospitals, ensuring the portfolio of services to the patients of the comarcal hospitals, solving the difficulties in setting professionals and generating a regulatory framework that feels the coordination bases of personnel and resources that have already been made since the integrated management agencies. In addition to the maintenance of care activities, a demonstration of the qualitative improvement and success of this organizational model of inter-hospital coordination is the direct offer from the Comarcal Hospital in Valdeorras of the aforementioned specialties, in addition to home hospitalization and palliative care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u281	...avoiding the transfer of patients to Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u282	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u283	Balloons out, Counselor, balloons out once more. You just mentioned home hospitalization: man!, I yesterday — yesterday! — I talked to professionals at the Valdeorras Boat Hospital and yesterday it didn't work. If the magic effect of bringing this question to Parliament is that it started working today, I hope; but the truth is that it is not the situation to throw rockets. You've basically talked about the hospital issue. I would be grateful if you would also explain to me about the situation of primary care in Valdeorras, which was a good part of the question and which, of course, does not satisfy us, and thus demonstrates the social mobilization that accompanies it. You also said they're avoiding displacements. The latest data sent to this parliamentary group on the number of mobile UVI displacements at the Ourense Hospital indicated an increase. I'm going to ask you again today for the written data to prove, if so, that they're actually avoiding displacements, because, as far as we know, that's false. And it's false because you're talking about punctual deficiency, but, of course, it's not this situation at all on time, it's not on time at the hospital. The example we have in what I myself put from hospitalization home, which has been out of operation for a long time — several months — precisely because there are lack of internalists. It's fake when we also talk about primary care. I gave you the example: Rubiá Health Center since August, a situation that has come to this parliament and why you just publicly apologize saying that these are few cards. But we insist: in this part of the territory, where there is a need for increasingly relaxed attention, because there is an increasing type of patient with more pathologies and more, and where the Barco Hospital itself is experiencing the effect of having old residences in its surroundings and therefore need to complement many of its actions in this territory, it is insufficient the staff that there is. So, today, Counselor, we asked you for a little less self-comprehensive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u285	...and a little more resources for this part of the country that is mistreated by the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u286	Thank you. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we — as I say — continue to work. And quite the opposite: despite what they always announce — as I said — at the time of the election, that of creating a situation of social alarm to try to mobilize people, at the end of the day there is more investment in comarcas and peripheral areas of Galicia. Of course, there's already been an announcement of a very important investment for the Valdeorras boat — for the hospital — and we're still working. I mean, in primary care... the question was originally of primary care and, in addition, curiously, it was of primary care for the possibility of retirement of two doctors on the street, who were curiously not retired. Because one measure that took the Council of Galicia was the possibility that professionals could continue to work on a voluntary basis, and it turns out that these two professionals, who in the question announced that they would retire and that we would not cover them — it was the totally predicted future — because it turns out that they do not want to follow, and we are delighted that they want to follow. [[Murmurs.]] So there's, for that reason, no problem of assistance. As I say, the whole primary care model and all the measures, retirement age was one of them, the increase of family doctors, the new continuity contract... all that favors this and all the districts of Galicia. It has to be said that the Rubiá Health Center in Ourense had two family doctors to attend to a thousand cartons. A person from the opposition in the previous interpellation said we can't compare what's in Vigo with what's in Lugo, with a thousand. Well, in Rubiá there were exactly a thousand for two doctors, i.e. five. What we do right now, of course, by giving priority to the lack of staff at the general level, is to prioritize: there is a doctor to care for a thousand and, in addition, there is a reinforcement two days a week for another family doctor plus to try to collaborate and help to care for this population. But the current ratio is of the best ratios not only in Galicia, but also at the level of the whole Spanish state. Logically, we have to see the territorial balances of all kinds. We understand what the aging population needs, so we also stratification of the TIS, and we clearly understand that with a doctor more than two days a week we give a very good service, which, as I say, I hope there were other regions of Spain. Galicia has it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u288	Thank you, Counselor. Let's get back to culture questions now. There was a little change there again. Question by Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and nine other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the performances carried out by the Government of Galicia to advance the construction and implementation of the Fontán building in the City of Culture of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u289	Mrs. Antonio Vilasanchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u290	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, nearly a year ago we knew the desire of the Government of Greece to complete the complex of the City of Culture with the construction of the so-called Fontán building. The Galician Union thus opened the final stage of a project that was able to adapt to the changing circumstances of the moments it touched on it from its conception in 1999 to today. The president of the Galician board commented on the presentation of this project — and I bear in mind: "The Fontán building will be a centre that will enable us to advance in the integration of the Galician university system, ensuring a quality teaching, a more efficient, useful and more attached research into progress and an axile university structure, integrated into the society that keeps evolving." If so, it is clear that the Fontán building is conceived as a neural center of research and knowledge, which will strengthen quality teaching in our community. And at this point, Counsellor, we must recognize and highlight the involvement, cooperation and collaboration of our universities in this project for the benefit of the Greek university set and for the benefit of Galician society. It's true, Counsellor: we have to recognise that the Galician Union has made a courageous decision to put an end to the Gaiás whole, taking advantage of the structure of the so-called Opera Theatre and giving it a new harmonious functionality from the aesthetic point of view and essential from the point of view of content. We are convinced that the Fontán building will contribute in this way to drive the City of Culture as the vanguard complex that is, that welcomes and develops activities that compete in the star of the vanguard of creation, production, display and contemporary cultural diffusion without forgetting our roots and traditions. And despite all that, Counselor, in our opinion, the City of Culture remains a great stranger to the Greek public and to the saints, I dare say. Do not doubt that for this People's Group it is a pride to have a complex like the City of Culture in the capital of Galicia, and we thank you for your efforts to finish this work that reinforces the cultural and university character of Santiago de Compostela. And that's why our question is: what steps has the Galician Union taken to advance the construction and launch the Fontán building? Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Reply by the Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Anton, as you have said very well, this new equipment, the Fontán building, is born basically with a purpose, which is to give or provide an interuniversity service to the three universities that make up the SUG. In this sense, it is fundamental — and I want to publicly acknowledge — the involvement and willingness of the three universities to develop a collective project, a Galician project that may perhaps be simplified in an image that we understand very positively. When this project was signed, the president of the board announced it, and participated the whole of Galician society, with three rectors: the Rector of the Crown, the two outgoing rectors of Vigo and Santiago, and the two incoming rectors of Santiago and Vigo, who had just completed the electoral process. This demonstrates the support he had from the Greek universities. The truth is, their location eventually comes up with an absolutely logical decision. We all felt it was important to develop an inter-university research centre to promote an area of research which, in the case of SUG, was not sufficiently empowered, as was the case with humanity and social sciences. It seemed to us, in that sense, that it was necessary to add and integrate the research potentials of the three universities into a single centre that could serve the three universities and work in areas as important as Galicia as the landscape, cultural heritage, cultural itineraries and nominally the Santiago Way. A location of an interuniversity center that served at three o'clock, which was agile to the three, accessible and was not on any campus to avoid any kind of rock or problem. And at that moment came the possibility — I think it is interesting — of using the unfinished infrastructure of the City of Culture, closing that unfinished structure and fixing there, on a significant surface of about 11,000 square meters, the possibility of launching this center. So the Fontán building is born, which unites different interuniversity services: on the one hand, the consortium, and on the other hand, the future Ceipac, that is, the European Centre for Research in Cultural Landscapes, or the Santiago Road Observatory; which allows us to develop a pioneer and pointer research centre in this field. And if we add to this the recent signature with the CSIC to locate the Incipit, that is, the Institute of Heritage Sciences, we believe that we are creating a pole of knowledge and a pole of research focused on such important aspects as culture, such as landscape and how they are the cultural itinerary and heritage, that to some extent will allow us to be at the vanguard. I can announce, according to the expected deadlines, that the works will be completed around the end of 2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u293	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u294	...and in the year 2021 will be perfectly functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u295	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u296	Thank you, President. Thank you for your answer. I am keeping precisely this last announcement that you have just made, that the Fontán building will be finished by the end of 2020, so it is supposed to be fully operational in the year 2021. That's going to assume that everyone who decided in 2021 to approach Santiago de Compostela to the celebration of the Holy Year, to the celebration of this Xacobeo, will be able to visit the City of Culture completely completed. In my opinion, we must be able to make this matter profitable and to focus on the interest of visitors, precisely this complex Gaiás as a more resource in the city. On the other hand, you also commented that the Fontán building, in addition to being the headquarters of this research centre in cultural landscapes, cultural itineraries and on the Santiago Road — a new creation center — will host the Institute of Heritage Sciences — the Incipitt — a research unit — as you well referred to — of the Higher Science Research Centre. It seems to us a new highlightable, and allow me to congratulate you on reaching this agreement that will allow Galicia and Santiago de Compostela, the capital, being a cultural city par excellence, to be a reference in the field of research of the first order cultural heritage. To finish, I'd just like to have a global and overall assessment before that imminent end of what the performances would be in the complex of Mount Gaiás.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Close the question, Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u298	Madam President, as I have said to you, the intention is that the Fontán works will be completed in 2020 and that in 2021, coincident with the Xacobeo, we can have the Fontán building in perfect operation and, with that, a complex that has suffered a lot of vicissitudes over time, but that will undoubtedly be a reference and pride for Galicia both in the medium and in the long term, as is the City of Culture and as is Gaiás. Obviously, it is located in Santiago de Compostela, but it is a cultural equipment from all over Galicia, without any doubt, and the new equipment that is located here, as a headquarters of an interuniversity institution of the three universities in the country, reflect that character of bringing together the Galician set and the country set in this enclosure, which is a unit of all. The truth is, our forecast is that in the year 2021 we finished this complex. In recent interventions, what we wanted, in some way, was to change the social perception that existed — and I think we have achieved it to some extent — with regard to Gaiás. We're turning the whole compound into a much more human space, into a much more multipurpose space, into a much more accessible space to the population and always starting from a premise -- I'd say -- the sentinel, to some extent, and also the vision of saving and using this enclosure for the good of the citizens. The truth is that many interventions have been made in recent years: you could quote the Galician forest, which is turning the slopes and slopes around the architectural complex into a living space, into a sports space and into a leisure space; you could also say the discovery of wildly beautiful green spaces, cozy and gathering areas, as can be the lake forest; spaces for children, such as the Whale Park or a new park that we will be willing to open around the summer; and also the theater park, recently opened, using a large gap where the theater garden was and where we created an audience in the open air. And, of course, something vital was connectivity, connecting to the highway through a peak on AP-9 itself. Finally, I think that we are all helping to close a complex that has certainly been born with many problems, that has been evolving and that I think, fortunately, that we will be able to deliver them to Galicia and to citizenship in the year 2021 perfectly finished. Obviously, there's work to be done, there's things left to do; it's done a lot, but there's things left to do. We have to improve the peonil connection with Santiago de Compostela's historic helmet, which also has to serve to decongested at times when there are many visitors in the historical centre, decongested visits to the City of Culture. But ultimately, I think we've been able to evolve this infrastructure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u300	... towards an ever closer service to citizens and closer to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u301	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira and nine other G.P. People in Galicia, on the balance sheet of the Galician Union on the administrative procedure followed for the statement of the Holy Ribeira as a asset of cultural interest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u302	Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u303	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, last December 2017, Junta published in the Official Journal of Galicia the initiation of the file of the BIC declaration of the Sacred Ribeira with the cultural landscape category. It covered a secular protection that the neighbors and residents themselves, men and women, in the territory of the Sacred Ribeira, came to give them protection to the cultural and landscaped values of this territory with which they were able to preserve this extraordinary legacy. And it culminated with a decisive step that gave the Council of Galicia the support of this official protection of the Sacred Ribeira package to ensure the permanence of its extraordinary peculiarities, but also an indispensable step to ensure its recognition as the heritage of humanity. A year later, in December 2018, the decree declaring the cultural landscape of the Sacred Ribeira was published in the Official Journal of Galicia. It ended this way, ladies and gentlemen, a long work, a procedure which the decree itself qualified as novice and incompatible with any other that had taken place in advance in both Galicia and the rest of the state. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at this point to acknowledge the work done by all the people who in one way or another have participated in this process, with particular reference to all technicians and staff of the Directorate-General for Heritage, in particular their director. We know of the multiple meetings held even before the start of the file and we know of the difficulties of delimitation of the territory. It would be very close at this point to that German saying that you can't put cancels on the wind. It was certainly difficult to define and put limits on a territory that does not correspond to any administrative unit that existed, which extends through land belonging to different municipalities, to different districts and even to different provinces, and in addition to finding thousands of goods classified with cultural value. We are therefore faced with the result of hard technical work, but above all we are faced with a fundamental work and transcendental work, because it rips and triggers a huge and great potential within Galicia. The question we ask you, Counselor, has to do with this work. Without a doubt, all the records to declare goods of cultural interest have their peculiarities, but we understand that, as far as the Sacred River is concerned, they have surely encountered special difficulties and peculiarities, and therefore that qualification as a novice and incomparable work. That's why we want to know what the balance is made by the Galician board of administrative proceedings that led to the declaration as a good cultural interest of the Sacred Ribeira. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Reply by the Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u305	Thank you very much, Madam. The truth is, you said it very well: a few months ago it was declared by the Council of Galicia, in December of last year, the Sacred River as well of cultural interest. Obviously, this wasn't an easy job, because it had a lot of connotations. But this was a fundamental step, a necessary and fundamental step to conquer as well, very little time ago, to take another fundamental step, which was that the National Council of Heritage of Spain accepted Galicia's candidacy to declare the Sacred Ribeira as the heritage of humanity and to become the candidacy of the Kingdom of Spain for the year 2021 to be presented at the UNESCO Council and thus achieve something as desirable as the declaration of the entire territory and cultural space of the Sacred Ribeira as the heritage of humanity. Actually, it wasn't an easy process for multiple connotations. We're in front of one of the BICs, in front of one of the most extensive and complex protected spaces in Spain, and I'm just going to give some data: we're talking about a territory of twenty-two municipalities and seventy-six parishes, sixteen thousand hectares, fifty-eight immovable BICs contemplated in the interior territory, three furniture BICs and nine intangible BICs; that is, we're facing a very technically complex processing. I have to say that it took itself with a highly modeled perspective, both by the technicians of the General Heritage Directorate and by the agents of the territory. And when I say local agents, I say wine growers, collectives, associations, entrepreneurs... I mean, all the social cast that somehow made this file of yours. One fact that I also certify that the local population has done this work was the very few allegations: there were only thirty allegations, when we are talking about a project of enormous complexity and amplitude. Of these thirty allegations, I mean that twenty-four were totally or partially estimated and only six were dismissed, some of them with a huge political affair. I believe that the acceptance of the eighty percent of the allegations indicates the management's interest in reaching a meeting point with civil society so that we were all able to promote a process as technically complex but as important as the BIC declaration and the subsequent inclusion in the national candidacy. Let us hope that in 2021 it will be declared by UNESCO as the heritage of humanity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u307	In any case, we are not at a final point; this is only a point and then it has been associated with more actions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u308	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u309	...to multiple investments and planning actions. Finally, a constant work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u310	Counselor, you have another turn later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u311	...to conquer that the Sacred Ribeira is declared the heritage of humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u312	Thank you. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counsellor, for this information, which reveals that a very important technical work has been done; the data that has just made it easier to believe the complexity of this whole procedure. But also thanks for this interest shown throughout this process in making people, groups and stakeholders in the Sacred Ribeira territory themselves, because it could only be possible to achieve this recognition, involving all of us in that territory. Of course, I would like to show you in a special way that thanks to the work done, because the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira as the heritage of humanity represents an exciting expectation for many people, which we see in that recognition an open door to tourism development and economic development and therefore a hope for the future for all the inhabitants of the Sacred Ribeira. It is true that the passage of time had caused us to lose hope a little, and that is why congratulations and gratitude, because we understand that this statement as BIC, which is an indispensable preliminary step to contest that statement, has made the neighbours of the Sacred River that we reside there regain the trust and illusion in this legitimate aspiration. Therefore, he welcomes the work done, but also the determined commitment of the Galician Union to the sake of the Sacred Ribeira. Counsellor, we are very pleased with this statement, hopeful and confident that it will undoubtedly lead to recognition as a world heritage. But we are also aware of all that remains to be done, we are aware of all the needs that exist to preserve and value the important heritage that exists in the Sacred River. That is why we would like to know what is the next step towards developing actions for conservation, care and even promotion of the Sacred Ribeira. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Close the question, Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, you said very well: the statement by the Holy Ribeira — which we understand by the Holy Ribeira — as a heritage of humanity I am sure it will be one before and after this territory, which is a territory that needs new development incentives. Without a doubt, this statement will encourage tourism action, promote the valuing of local products and nominally the wine richness that has this territory. In short, it can become one before and after them, for this whole set of inside of Galicia and it can be an economic revolution of the highest magnitude, in addition to assuming, undoubtedly, a recognition to a well-sovereign, to a good that is necessary, that we must protect and that we must somehow preserve, because we are in front of one of the most singular spaces within Galicia, within Spain, within Europe and across the whole of the planet, and so we will certainly demonstrate it in the year 2021 with the declaration of the heritage of humanity. Obviously, I was saying at the end of my previous intervention that this is not the end point, not much less; we are at a point and then, and at this point and then it is necessary to continue to work to further enhance the great resources and territorial products of this space. It is very important to carry out proper planning, effective and efficient planning. In this sense, we are already working on drafting a sacred Ribeira plan that will have three levels: a level of protection — such as protecting natural heritage and cultural heritage —, a level of promotion and value and a level of coordination of public investment. Without going further, since the Council of Culture and Tourism, last year — in 2018 — we invested 1.8 million in different actions: restoration of buildings and monuments, signage, tourist promotion etc.; in this year 2019 we are around 1.7 million. But there are a lot of investments that make different public administrations and different sectoral areas that obviously need to be coordinated. So this Sacred Ribeira plan is born with the aim of coordinating the action of the different administrations in order to be able to coordinate precisely the investments, generate synergies, generate positive flows and generate actions that contribute to further enhancing the singularity and value of this territory. We are talking about a joint strategy of different departments of the Union of Galicia: of course, the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, the Tourism Agency, the Agader, the Institute of Territory Studies, many departments that are going to act on this territory, the Consortium of Tourism of the Sacred River, the Regulatory Council of Source Denomination, the Hydrographic Confederation, the General Administration of the State and, of course, the different local administrations — Councils and Deputies —. In fact, we are faced with a huge one -- I would say -- an opportunity to give you a return to the Sacred River from the point of view of territorial strategy, territorial dynamics, territorial resources and capacity to generate positive dynamics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u316	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u317	...for a territory that, in addition to being tremendously beautiful and attractive, needs developmental stimuli. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u318	Thank you. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to ensure the right of the children's population of the Integrated Management Structure of the Lugo-Monforte Marine to receive timely quality attention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u319	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u320	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Today since the BNG we bring to Parliament the voice of the families, especially the mothers of the children of the villages of Lugo, Sarria and Lemos who receive early attention at Lugo Hospital. Families with whom we were able to meet and who denounce the deficiencies of the HULA Temperary Care Unit, deficiencies that cause a decrease in the quality of the service and which also violate the rights of these children. We're talking about children from 0 to 6 years old with serious developmental disorders, highly dependent, who have the right — and I want to emphasize this — to full, public and quality early attention. There's a lack of staff and we have underutilized hospital facilities that only attend tomorrow's hours, with the prejudices that it also charges for schoolchildren. The consequences of this situation are children and children, above all, but also their families: there are waiting lists in Logopedia, there are cases waiting for more than a year to access this service; there are waiting lists in Occupational Therapy; the physiotherapist has work overload, and the psychologist, who replaces a retirement, does not count on the specialty in psychomotority, despite the fact that the regulations require that professionals of the Temperá care units contain specific training — Decree 183/2013—. What alternatives do families have in this context? Whoever has money, goes to private to try to address the deficiencies in public health, looking for sessions and therapies that their children and children need to improve living conditions and gain autonomy; who does not have enough economic resources -- I'm here, Counsellor -- what remains is despair. We're talking about very dependent children -- I insist -- so mothers usually stop working to take care of their daughters, and that means less pay at home. What we've asked you since the BNG, Counsellor, because it's also the demand of the families themselves, is that the Galician Board meets the needs of these children and children, which provides the HULA Temperary Care Unit with the necessary personnel, that you take advantage of all the potential of the hospital facilities to be able to open them also in the afternoon, that it ends with waiting lists and that it guarantees, above all, public, comprehensive and quality care also for the inner regions of our country. Because early attention, as a mother told me and I transfer it to you, is a right and not a privilege for those who can pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, I'm sorry, what happens is that she was looking for her companion Montse Prado, who's the usual spokesman, and that's why she couldn't locate her. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández: Nothing.]] No, I really don't; I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look: the publication of Decree 183/2013, so the early-warning Galician Network was created, meant a turning point. It establishes a shared space for coordination and co-responsibility between health and education systems, social services and even municipalities as well. I think it's a good collaborative system that, like everything else, of course, we can improve. These aspects involve an integral action aimed at meeting the rights and needs of children aged between 0 and 6 with developmental disorders or at risk of suffering and their families, as well as their prevention. The services of Pediatrics and Primary or Specialized Care develop the processes that correspond to them and, in case they confirm the suspicion of developmental disorder or evolutionary vulnerability, they verify that they comply with the criteria of entry into the Greek Attention Network will be timed and derive attention from the reference team, in accordance with this decree. I mean, there's a first phase of diagnosis very well-solved by pediatric services, either primary or hospital services. What can these units be? The care units will be timed in hospital complexes when, because of their health condition, they need attention, care, rehabilitation or long-term hospital care, as well as when the hospital unit is the means of proximity to the minor and his family; or the child development centres and programs and early care of the social services system in their community, when they are the resources of proximity to the minor and his family, where he does not need hospital care. These early-care reference units and centres perform the set of planned evaluation and intervention actions, in collaboration with families and other educational or health social resources. In particular, in the province of Lugo we have the following resources from the Early Care Network: the Education Council, educational guidance teams formed by the guidanceor or tutor, professor of Therapeutic Pedagogy and professor of Hearing and Language, in addition to personal caregivers and sign-language interpreters; and the Health Council, the Early Childhood Rehabilitation and Care Unit of the UALA, composed of a team from a pediatrician, a rehabilitation doctor, a physiotherapist, a psychomotor, an occupational therapist and a speech therapist. The pediatrician square increased with respect to the one established at the time of the establishment of the unit, because we understand that we are going to improve the quality of care, and the psychomotorist square, although it depends on Social Services, since the retirement of the holder is covered by the Galician Health Service. In the Marine Temperary Care Unit, we were able to count on the physiotherapist of the Marine Hospital, and Social Policy, in collaboration with the Navy Commonwealth and Burela City Council, which said of a coordination of all, that of Early Marine Care, made up of a team of psychologists, a pedagogue and a physiotherapist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u323	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u324	I will continue in the next intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u325	All right, thanks. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u326	Thank you, President. Let's see if I'm a little lucky and answer what I asked you in the second round of intervention, because, man, we've come here to read. I also read Decree 183/2013, and the relationship of people who are part of or who make up the HULA Temperary Care Unit, we also know it. What we have transferred, which is what they report, what they complain about and what the family users claim from this HULA Temperary Care Unit that serves children and children from the communities of Lugo, Sarria and Lemos is more personal and the opening in the hospital facilities of that HULA Temperary Care Unit also in the afternoon to reduce or even disappear that waiting list and, above all, to ensure quality and integral care for all the children and children who need it. Because what they're proposing to families, counsellor, is that new children and children be included in the service, is that the sessions of the children and the children who are now being paid attention. The criteria — so says the Early Care White Paper, and so also recognises the decree itself and the rules of the Union — or the reasons for reducing or not the sessions of people who are being attended in the Temporal Care Unit, must be determined by the conditions in which these children are found, not by the need to care for more children. That's what the evidence is that there's a personal lack, which is where we want to go from the BNG in this matter. They are also aware of the situation they are in, because the families themselves have denounced and transferred these complaints to the EOXI Directorate, and also trade union organizations, including the IGC-Health, have brought these deficiencies to the attention of the Directorate. What we want to know — and see if I have a little bit more luck, because the families think they deserve it well — is whether more personal guarantees will be guaranteed and whether this unit will also be opened in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u328	I was describing in the other intervention what we had: for the part of the people of Monforte there is treatment of speech therapy in Monforte itself, through a social policy remedy. The operation of the Temperá Care Unit at the Luus Augusti University Hospital responds to that established in the Early Action Plan of Galicia and has not changed in recent times. The indications are always those made by the pediatrician and the rehabilitative doctor; of course — as the honourable Member says — it does not depend on whether or not there is a waiting list to diminish the sessions, but it is only an indication — as I say — of the pediatrician and the rehabilitative doctor, and therefore that is a rule we follow in any case. The incidences that can be produced with staff coverage for their different dependence are always resolved and assumed by the hospital itself; that is, there are -- there are several administrations here, even at the level of manhood or municipalities, and logically we're ready to look for an alternative or coverage for all of this. And if it's true that there's an evaluation -- we're going to have another type of health activity -- we have to do a continuous evaluation and, when there's an increase in cases for a greater diagnosis or for some other reason, logically, at that time we're doing a personal increase. We're at a stage where we're seeing that there's a certain increase in activity for children and children who have to be cared for. Logically, this valuation is a continuous evaluation, which we will adapt in each of the circumstances, but of course, I have to say here that at no time we will reduce the treatments for children and children according to what the doctor or pediatrician prescribed. So — as I say — we have good assistance, assistance with different professional categories that bind us; in fact, there is a new activity, which is the psychomotority test, where there is an increase over last year — obviously, because we didn't have this activity — in order to do so. As I say, with a readjustment that we do on a monthly basis, we see the type of waiting lists and, according to that, we make the contracts that are necessary, because it's also true that we don't have a space limitation to be able to perform the therapies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u329	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia to abolish, in the tendering of the land-based emergency health transport service, a health emergency technician in advanced life support ambulances of Salnés, Foz and Monforte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u330	Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u331	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let me read some headline — it is not the last two days — "The PP votes in the Galician Parliament against the medical ambulance". We can read this headline in comarcial editions. In particular, today we asked him about Foz, Monforte and O Salnès; in either of the three we would have enough -- not one -- headlines on this issue. I'm going to read to him a little bit closer; this one I read to him was April the first. Already on April 25, which is a beautiful day for other things too: "Monforte will have a medical ambulance." Even on the same day: "Salné will have a medical ambulance, four years later." I can find, if you want, also a headline about Foz, which you know. On April 25, by chance: on April 28, there were elections, as you spoke there is a moment of electoralism in parliamentary debates. I'm going to read you a past these general elections: "the medicalized ambulance based on Foz will lose a technician," a headline I can also read, if you like, from Monforte or Salné. The professionals knew from the very first moment — although it was April 25 that it was difficult to communicate — that you made a trap announcement in the form of trileros. They called for an ordinary board of board meetings and there they announced, from there, with plenty of publicity, medicalized ambulances almost as if they were a supermarket. And, curiously — and I'm sure it wasn't ready — the next day the People's Party of all those announced locations went out celebrating and congratulating itself, as a People's Party, celebrating medical ambulances. Thank you, of course, for the work of the People's Party, which was under great pressure, not of all the citizens who protest, not of the mayors who press, not of the questions of the parliamentary groups, not of the professionals who ask for it, of the People's Party. However, what you announced is medical ambulances about which there are some doubts. First of all, that the vehicles that are going to be implemented are not new in many cases. They're taking out type B ambulances to put in type A ambulances. So the number of vehicles is going to be the same somewhere and if not, I'd appreciate it if I could disassemble that idea that professionals have. And besides, they're going to invent a new model of medicalization, which is to break the barriers or ratios that they implement with professionals, and they're going to put him off professionally. They're going to be medicalized with professionals who miss. So the question we're asking ourselves from this group is, why are those of Foz, Monforte and Salnes going to miss professionals? Is it perfectly guaranteed in the same way the quality of care for those less professional ambulances? Do the others, then, have too many professionals? They're working too hard because it's either yes or really, they don't want to make the whole investment, but they wanted to do something to be able to announce it, even though it was then proved to be a lie? See if any of those questions can answer me. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u332	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u333	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Well, the truth is, I'm surprised, Mr. Torrado. I thought I'd congratulate myself because there's going to be a medical ambulance in Salnes. Not even when you ruled it. We did incorporate it into Salnés. [[Applause]] It's a medical ambulance, says four years later. I don't know why he says four years; he can say four hundred years later, he's also true. Well, there's gonna be a medic. One medicine is that you have a doctor, that's a doctor. And it's going to be put in Monforte too, but not by a whim -- not because you're from Vilagarcia is going to be in Salne, no -- just because we're attending a continuous review -- as it says in the previous question. We are going to continuously review needs at every point and now we have a very important investment in urgent health transport in Galicia; very important investment, not just in money. We're talking about moving a four-year contract of one hundred twenty-one million euros into another contract -- I told you exactly the figure so I wouldn't have any doubts later and say I'm wrong. I say this because it's a very important figure and so I think it has to be said -- of center eighty-four million euros; of one hundred twenty-one hundred eighty-four. Therefore, I expected, at least, congratulations. Because the Greeks, with their taxes, make it possible one of Spain's best health transport services and therefore Europe's. And so they say it in addition; they score it highly; the rating is 9.3; they're very happy with that transport. So we keep working to improve. And it's not true that we have reduced staff. I have to say that, precisely, staff increases significantly. To increase that amount of millions of euros -- we're talking about millions of euros, not pesetas, because the magnitude isn't even conceived -- we're talking about twelve more, twenty-four more nurses and 100 more technicians right now about what there were a few months ago. And it doesn't come out in April because there are elections — the only one that chose the election date was Mr. Sánchez, we don't — and we do because we want to comply with the commitments, which ends the contract. [[Applause]] And we want the sooner, the sooner a contract ends, the other one prepares, and we need these months to get on time. So when the opposition was asked to withdraw this morning, it was irresponsible, because it was to say, we're not going to comply and we're going to continue without a medical ambulance in Monforte, in Salnes, and in the other improvements we have, which are very important improvements in quality of service. So I think it would be interesting if the opposition recognized the efforts of all citizens of Galicia—all because the Galician Health Service is theirs. It's not ours, it's none of us who's here, no one who's outside. It's from all the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u335	...to say that we have one of the best health service transport services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u336	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u337	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u338	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u339	Thank you, President. The truth is, I could congratulate you — yes — on the measure. But, look: taking those words -- I agree with you that it's everyone's service -- I'll rather congratulate who's got the service, which hasn't yet clarified whether it's going to be with new vehicles and full-time professionals, hasn't yet clarified it. I mean, he didn't answer the question we asked him. But we could congratulate so many citizen demonstrations, those that you say they go for snacks and buses, those who claim medical ambulances; the professionals who claim them — who have long claimed them —; the municipal representatives, some of the municipal groups of the People's Party, those who have conciliators who are also deputies and who vote something in a council and here vote against them, too. But we congratulate everyone, who's the one who got it. Because, surely, Counselor, you are constantly reviewing to make the decisions. But look: they're tremendously efficient — and I know it's Peter Sánchez's fault — but you voted against April 5 and announced it on 25. Or they were tremendously efficient in twenty days — because on day 5 there was already an election call — or it is clearly electoralist. That, Counselor, it's all right, they can be electoralists. See if they've been so good electoralists that in every place they've announced that lie they've lost. That, by the way, I could congratulate you on that, too. [[Applause]] When he told me he had to congratulate me, I thought it was for Baiona's results, but I guess not. In any case, you also mention the contract. And it's true that it's a big contract. Look, it's very big, one hundred eighty-four million euros, it's right. He quoted the previous one: one hundred twenty-one million. But you know where the previous one ended: in the trial; because you know who took the contract: a company linked to the PP. And you know that's what I had: the ambulances labeled and equipped before the nail went out. That you're assuming a contract that has a legal problem upstairs, Counselor! So it's assuming a little bit. Congratulations I won't congratulate you because there's a hundred and twenty million euros in danger of a court ruling. And I'm not going to congratulate you on something the others have achieved. What I'm asking you is whether the one that was announced because there were elections is truth or lies, and you haven't yet been able to answer and that gives you the idea that it's a lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u340	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u341	I don't know if I'd have to congratulate you too on the result of Vilagarcia, I don't know. I don't know what involvement you have in Vilagarcia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They govern, and they rule well, and they give us a plot to make a health center, for example. Let's see if they're capable. [[Applause]] Let's see if they're capable! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, look, the new dimensioning of the emergency transportation system is not decided by a vote anywhere, but after a study. As I say, people like PSOE's government, the Bipartite, didn't think it was a good medical degree for Salnes. Right now we think we do. But in addition to that, we're going to increase services. We've not only improved at more personal level, but also at more services. We're going to create new advanced life support ambulances with nursing because we understand that nursing also plays an increasingly important role in this. And this will help them reduce the mobilization of primary care doctors when there is an emergency. And, of course, it's also within the Primary Care Plan. Everything's connected, everything's coordinated. And, of course, as I say, we are representatives of Greek citizenship, who with their taxes obtain a magnificent health service. And we have to make a serious and responsible administration. And, as I say, in Vigo, in Santiago and elsewhere, we increased this service. We also created two new medical ambulance services, which they do, especially in the comarcas — Monforte, Foz and O Salnés — a very important task in something we are also developing — and developing this government — that are the pathologies of time-dependent: acute myocardial infarction or stroke. We're increasing it now with sepsis, generalized infection, and we're also going to do it with traumatological, accidents that need a transfer to a more complex center. That's why you don't need the same endowment as a medicalized ICU in a great city, which, of course, has far more serious pathologies with direct action in the center. Here a very important part is done in a hospital transfer, where it's necessary to have the equipment: doctor, nurse and technician, but it doesn't need the same thing as in a big city, which has another kind of urgent pathology, as I say, of immediate attention in the place. But, in addition, we're talking about the staff that is needed by twelve professionals to meet. And they have to answer, according to numbers, two transfers a day, two. We believe it's a suitable provision for quality of service in Foz, Monforte and, also, Salnes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u343	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u344	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Raquel Arias Rodríguez and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the balance of the Greek Government regarding the operation of the Welcome Card since its launch
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u345	Question by Mrs Raquel Arias of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u346	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Support for birth is essential to address the demographic challenge and thus also to ensure the sustainability of our society, the generational relief and the state of well-being and to maintain an economically active and future country. Supporting families means supporting maternity. And also, the Government of the Union is being very active in this, with measures to support families and birth — to all families, because each one has a different complexity and distinct needs: single-parent families, monomantal families, numerous families, adoptions, and also older families or with disabilities in charge — to favor all those women who want and wish to have a child to do so in the best possible conditions. It does so—this work—the Galician Union cross-sectionally in all councils to ensure equality between men and women and transversality and to put in place and promote an environment, work, cultural, social and economic that facilitates motherhood and paternity. All the advisers — and you too — have, on numerous occasions, already come here to explain the various measures that the Galician Union is taking on for this challenge or that it is planning to put in place imminently. I would highlight those who are destined to make the woman, as a mother, not have to give up any desire for work or be able to do their vital project as well. We therefore talk about work flexibility, teleworking and conciliation. In this area, I would like to highlight the last one this week to expand the conciliation of self-employed people: tax deductions for birth or adoption, which are the highest in Spain. Specifically, your board has specific measures in place, such as the Birth Support Plan with economic benefits and conciliation resources. We're talking about the Good Care, the Good Council and the Welcome Card. And this, in particular, is what we want to ask you today; a measure that economically supports your child's families during the first year, and in some cases — in the most needed — also in the next two years, to help you in the care of this child during — as I said — those first months, which are the ones that make an important increase in expenditure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u347	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u348	What is the valuation by Joine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u350	...of the deployment of the Welcome Card?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u351	Thank you. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u352	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Mrs Arias, I really appreciate that you raise this camera with a question that puts the focus on something as important to the future of our community as the childhood of the youngest. The Galician Union is aware that in order to make Galicia the best place to be born it is necessary to provide all the support needed for families who decide to have a child or a daughter. We who are mothers or parents know that when a child comes to the family it is to change everything: there are many expenses that we didn't count on before and which force us to restructure the family economy and, above all, all the time we spend with them they start to seem insufficient. That is why, as I said, the first major objective of the Social Policy Council is to give families who decide to have a child all the resources they need, and one of these resources is the Welcome Card: an economic benefit intended to meet the costs of extending the family for the first year of life of the child or daughter, for the purchase of food, of children's material, of leather, of clothing, of cradles or of hygiene products or of pharmaceutical products. Ladies and gentlemen, the Welcome Card, like a lot of other measures that we're pushing from the Galician Union and that we're launching, are true cases of success. From its implementation in 2016 until today we have granted more than forty-five thousand cards Welcome, more than fifty million euros invested in small children. Every year the German Government is trying to improve this help. Thus, in 2017 the allowance was extended to the third year of life of the child or daughter for those families with income of less than twenty-two thousand euros, receiving six hundred euros a year for the first child, a thousand two hundred euros a year for the second child and two thousand four hundred euros a year for the third child. So in 2018 we opened up the possibility that the Greeks and the Greeks who resided abroad and decided to return to Galicia might opt for this help. And by this year 2019 we have opened up the possibility of submitting the application to women who are already pregnant, a fact that maximizes the benefit of this aid. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we want to make this country a better place to have children, but above all, the best place to be a child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u353	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u354	Thank you, Counselor, for the welcome. And congratulations also on the welcoming card you're having Welcome, with more than forty-five thousand beneficiaries in these early years. I also have to congratulate you on being able to change the conditions for accessing this aid year by year, because that means that you empathize with the needs of families and that you listen to families, and in that dialogue the improvements come so that all men and women, parents and mothers can feel more supported on this new path that starts with motherhood and paternity. You talked about, among those new developments, expanding it from year to year to three for those most needy families, also talking about how you can be asked when you are pregnant so that from the very first moment you can start charging and it's easier to access and it's before, and also for returnees; improvements that, as I said, you can listen to families. But what is clear, what all the technicians and all the Members know — even if, for political reasons, sometimes they want to hide it — is that all the measures of demographic dynamization must be evaluated in the long and medium term and are not immediate. What we have to do is put the media, and the Government of Wales is putting the media -- more than 300 million euros in demographic policies in this legislation -- something I think we should also congratulate them. But I wanted you, taking advantage of your presence here today, in addition to talking to us on the Welcome Card, to give us also a few brushstrokes of the other measures that are within the Birth Support Program, those concrete measures that you have in place to support families, as you did just a few days ago talking about nesting houses, another of the pioneering measures of the Government of Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u355	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Close this question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u356	Thank you, President. Mr Arias, thank you very much for your approach. Never before in Galicia's history have there been as many facilities as today for people who choose to be mothers or parents. In 2019 there are more than twenty-five thousand public school squares in children's school, twice as many as there were in 2009. In 2019 we have a coverage ratio of children's schools of forty-four percent, twice what we had in 2009 and eleven points above what the European Union recommends. In 2019 there are sixty-one children's homes offering three hundred five child care squares in small and rural districts of Galicia; in 2009 here, in Galicia, there were none. In 2019 there were five hundred good Care, which enables a caretaker to contract on time in the face of unforeseen circumstances as if our little one was ill or also to hire from this year on the service of a ludothecist. Ladies and gentlemen, what we want and what we want is that Galicia is among the places with the greatest public, social and health care for our children, and for that very purpose we will always continue to work for families, mothers and parents and the smallest ones, so that Galicia will remain one of the communities in which there is the most effort or the community that makes the most effort to protect all families. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-29-DSPG117.u357	Thank you, Counselor. They end here two consecutive post-elections and we won't have another post-election once again, if there's no other novelty, until the year 2023. Yes, as it is. [[Various Members: No 2020!]] We'll never have another one again, see if we'll see each other then. Yes, except for exceptions. [[Murmurs.]] No, these were both followed after the elections; the next one would touch us in 2023. [[Murmurs.]] See you all then. Nothing else. The session is up.
