ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u1	Good morning. Let's start at the session. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. We're on the agenda. First point: legislative text. Proposal for a single reading procedure for the draft law granting a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019 and, where appropriate, debate and vote on the said project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u2	The Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Board at the meeting on 30 April 2019, agreed to propose to the House plenary that it be processed by the single reading procedure of this bill, in accordance with Article 134(1) of the Rules of Procedure. So before the vote is put to the motion for a single reading procedure, a round is opened to determine the position of the parliamentary groups. So we started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for a time of five minutes, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u3	Good morning to all and to all. As the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has already stated at previous meetings of spokesmen, because we are today insisting on this turn of action that we oppose the processing of the draft law in single reading. First of all, because, if it is true that the Rules of the House itself envisage this possibility, it is no less true that it also collects its exceptional implicit character, reserved for subjects which by their nature grant this procedure or its simplicity. And, in this case, although we really are in front of what we are now, it is still a modification of one's budgets covered by another thing, we must also say that we have precedents for other types of processing and that we are above all not in front of a simple matter. We are not faced with a simple matter in two areas: on the one hand, because of the complexity of the operation that is being presented, because we should be able to give a quiet debate about which are the priorities of spending, where they have to go the public resources of the Greeks and the Greeks, and in this way, with this closed process, we cannot give a debate through partial amendments to the articulate where we reach some kind of consensus on these priorities. But there's another leg, which is also where those resources come from. We should also be able to give a rational debate where we are pulling the resources and whether we could really talk, instead of 48 million, because 88, 100, 200 or 1, but give a debate on that substantive issue too. And that's something that gets worse with this one-reading procedure, but it's added that the opposition groups also don't know what the specific conditions are, the little letter of that debt that now says the Government is amortizing. We don't know what the budget situation is today, either. It is therefore an unequal debate and a blind debate. It's true that with an ordinary procedure there would be many shadows even if it exploded, but we could shed light on some issues, we could request information from the Government, we could wait for some of the reports that should accompany this law and that we have no additions and we could even ask for appearances, as if you've done in other legislative procedures. But, in any case, outside of formal and procedural issues, which would be the best method of that point of view, the main argument to oppose this way of dealing with this law is political, it's a matter of political substance, because we could be in front of a procedure that was almost manageable, in front of a matter that had a consensus throughout the House, but we're really not in front of it. What we are looking for is in the face of an operation by the Greek Government that what we are looking for is electoral bills less than twenty days from a municipal election, and therefore a government strategy in front of which is being preached by the Greek Parliament, which are selling to us that there are certain social emergencies — that we share that actually exist, but that this is not the magic recipe — and, therefore, we understand that from the point of view of political ethics, although formally this procedure may be legitimized by the regulation of the Greek Parliament, because, above all the legalist debate, there should be the debate of political ethics, if this is the attitude of a government that is only what is being applied here, that is what we have seen on other occasions: that the People's Party identifies most absolute with absolute truth and that it once again applies that knee that we have also called, rather than most absolute, most absolu. And, therefore, we understand that today is bad news that this procedure is unilaterally adopted. Because Parliament will be less Parliament. All the opposition has manifested itself against this procedure, all of which I think we are going to vote against, but the Government is absolutely indifferent, because it is only at the service of its electoral agenda. And there's also another question that moralally irreverents us. It's a bit crazy, because it's not saying a real booty of hair or a lack of seriousness, that we're debating this procedure and that we have press notes from the Galician Council five days ago, from the last Council of the Union, where we're already being publicly informed that the Government has started operations to do what theoretically we're going to do today, which is no longer a lack of elegance, but, above all, a lack of the point of view of the sense of democracy and the sense of what this Parliament should be. So we, who have another way of doing politics, another way of doing parliamentaryism, understand that this is not the right procedure, and therefore we want to express in this turn our opposition and we will vote 'no', and we will leave for the next turn also an intervention on why it seems to us that, above this disparate procedure, also at the bottom of what is being presented to us today if we are taking the hair of all the Greeks and Greeks and also of this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u5	Good morning to all and to all. I also announce to you that we are going to vote against this single reading procedure, which is a special procedure — as it was said — and that, in addition, it combines an aggravated urgency with a single reading procedure, which makes it even more complicated and more difficult for us to exercise our role as parliamentary opposition groups, but above all because we believe that neither the requirements for urgency nor the single reading are met. It is true that urgency is a discretionary decision of the Bureau of Parliament, which, in principle, must reduce the deadlines to half, except for exceptional cases, and in this case is reduced to half of the half, which indicates a hurry which I believe is worthy of better cause. And the single reading procedure is set out in Parliament's regulation that can be applied when the nature of a draft law advises it or allows simplicity, which is a vague but sufficiently expressive formulation, and that the doctrine has led to the realization that nature means that there is a consensus, so that parliamentary groups give a preliminary waiver of amendments, because they agree, since they are formulated among all the project — not this supposed — or that the simplicity of its formulation makes more unnecessary debate, because it is a law that can — let us say — be summed up in a sentence to understand. It's not about this either. There's a quick calendar. You made yourselves: from the beginning by the counsellor of the proceedings for the drafting of this law until the end will spend three weeks, all the proceedings in three weeks, with the Holy Week in the middle, because this began Wednesday before the Holy Thursday; therefore, we have a procedure that is indeed of extreme speed. The urgency is effectively justified in the file. It is justified because it is spoken — I think in a very interesting way — of the need to work in educational centres that can only be done during the summer. And we understand this argument, but we think it's not the right argument, first because summer is a circumstance that I think we're all able to predict; so we know when this circumstance is going to be given; the procedures should be activated, just the ordinary ones, taking this into account. But secondly, because this is observed for less than 50% of the credits that are included in this bill; of course, even some say that they will end in 2020; therefore, they have nothing to do with this issue. And thirdly — perhaps most important — because the Council of May 2nd approved an advance, which is provided for in the Parliament's own Financial and Budget Regime Act, which allows us to initiate proceedings to carry these projects forward regardless of whether we approve today or approve within three weeks or within a month. Therefore, the urgency with which the hasty processing of this bill is justified disappears from the approval of this advance. The urgency seems only to have an objective, which is to have this law passed before the municipal election campaign begins within a couple of days, because if you go down to the content, you will see that this project at the end of the project is to act in twenty and one educational centres of different municipalities, in an important number of social centers, in an important number of health centers as well, and therefore it is possible to use Galicia because it is selling to help the candidates of the People's Party what is in this bill. [[Applause]] But above all, the single reading is not justified either. Simplicity is not justified at any time, because it cannot be done. This project modifies accounts of six advisories, three agencies, two autonomous agencies, two companies and a foundation. It amends seven provisions, five annexes and twenty-six budgetary concepts. Nothing simple. It's not easy from the moment we see it as different advisors, the president himself, they're making references to this bill that doesn't fit the text of the project. It shouldn't be simple when they're wrong. The president himself said the other day in the control session that three million euros were included in this project to strengthen housing policy; they are not. It must not be so simple when Mr. President is wrong. The infrastructure advisor says more resources are being introduced to strengthen infrastructure policy. On the contrary: resources are withdrawn from the Public Investment Society, which is destined for the new work. So it shouldn't be as simple as the project when they're wrong in their interpretation. It must not be so simple when it comes to 125, 130, 96 million, and in the end it turns out that it's 48, as the BNG spokesperson recalled. It shouldn't be that simple. The single reading procedure, as indicated above, makes processing more difficult but devalues Parliament, limits the ability to act in the groups. The lawyers' report shifted responsibility to this plenary, and I think we should exercise it by saying no, because this procedure prevents us from making a sensible, reasonable assessment of the proposal. There is a lack of relevant documentation, e.g. the state of execution of budgets on 15 April, before beginning. Because this special procedure is justified only because there is no credit for essential expenses, and that there is no credit is said in the file but it is not believed; we do not know whether it is so or not; in order to be able to value it well, we would have to believe it. And on the other hand — already mentioned — the law itself states that the Continent Fund should be used for this and, nevertheless, it is not done here. Is there no longer any resources in the Contingency Fund, which is thirty million euros, most of which are in Sergas? Sergas is just one of the autonomous agencies that has a credit supplement to be able to perform new actions. No more credits in the Contingency Fund? You don't believe anything in the file.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u7	For all these reasons, because we believe that an ordinary procedure would make it possible to know better what the situation is — it could appear to the Director General, it could appear the manager of Sergas in his own speech and inform us of what is happening — because we are going to vote against this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u8	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago, from the scene. Give a voice to Mr. Lago's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u9	Good morning. I speak from the scene because I want to get as far away from this popular party campaign rally as possible. I don't want to take part in the paripé. [[Murmurs.]] Today, when I took the train to come and do my job, I read a story in this country's main newspaper: "The board mobilizes the first 48 million of the surplus for social spending. It will devote 16 million to staff and health equipment. The rest are..." Exactly, exactly. We have seen here the Members and the Members of Parliament in Galicia take part in the decision taken by the Galician Group of the majority, which has only one role, which is to get that press holder. [[Murmurs.]] So my group is not going to compare itself with this campaign of marketing and electoral propaganda that the People's Party does, in this case the group in Parliament. Of course, there is no reason to justify the single read and urgent procedure, because, if so, if the adviser had convinced us today that the Greek public health is in a state of emergency such that it requires a single procedure and an emergency procedure to provide sufficient funds to end this emergency situation, I think that would require further explanations. So this group won't compare itself to the marketing and propaganda operation that the People's Party does, and in this first intervention, therefore, we don't approach the rostrum and we do it directly from the scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u10	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that it strongly attracts attention to hear the interventions of the groups on the left, as they argue that this law is not used with the greatest agility and by the procedure of single reading; the truth is that it powerfully attracts attention to the arguments raised. A law that moves the Government of Greece to invest the hundred and twenty-five million surplus of 2018 in improving health care, improving education centres, improving social centres and investing in rural areas in forestry. But weren't they priorities that we shared all the groups? Oh, they were priorities, but not now, not now. All right. This is a law that enables a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions not covered by the ordinary budget of the year 2019, planned actions, planned actions by the Government of Greece. The fact is that it is curious to see the opposition revolve against the Government and against the majority of Parliament that supports it because it wants to pass this law swiftly, because it wants to pass this law with speed, as provided for by the legal and regulatory procedures of this House. Reports from the Juridical Services of this House assess the procedure as a whole. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document.]] All groups know the reports we got yesterday from the Juridical Services. What's the criticism? The reports of the Juridical Services of this Parliament state that the urgency procedure and the single reading procedure are perfectly legal and that it does not in any case undermine the rights of the parliamentary groups of this House, as some seem to intend to argue. Evidence of this and proof that the legal text in question is of simple formulation is that the socialist and nationalist groups have formulated amendments to the whole, even more extensive and more exhaustive in their literality — not in their depth — than the legal text proposed by the Government itself. So, it's true that the Tides didn't present amendments because they're the other thing, they're looking at the senator's sharing this by self-designation and saving Private Villares like that. But the truth is, the reports of the House's Juridical Services are conclusive, they are decisive, there are no buts, there are no nuances, there are no shadows of doubt. That's why it's surprising the argumentation of opposition groups. For BNG there is no right to debate. And then what are we doing? So what are we going to do in the next two hours? Do you want us to discuss these investments for three months instead of doing them? Do you want us to debate three months instead of starting up the works in the educational centers and that are completed in September, when the boys return to their educational centers? Is that what they want? Is it more important that we can debate here for three months, you and us, than to meet people's needs? Is that what they tell us from the Galician Nationalist Block? You're telling us about the elegance in the approval of this budget modification project. You guys? You guys, who approved the budgets in the Pontevedra Town Hall, taking advantage of the fact that that day, on the same day, they operated on a member of the People's Party and so they had a majority? But are you telling us about elegance? [[Murmurs.]] Then, from the Tide Group at Puddings, they argue that this is an electoral act, and that's why they think it's better to delay it with parliamentary procedures and bureaucracy. That's all your argument, shared with the party of the decrees, that's all your argument. For the Tides they are electoralist works, because since the People's Party we want to do things that demand citizenship to maintain its confidence. Oh, yeah? By following his logical argument, we should think that you intend to delay these actions to generate discomfort in citizenship. You're trying to delay surplus investments, which is why "the worse, the better." That's the logic of opposition groups. [[Applause]] Well, look, I have to tell them they're right. We want to improve people's lives, we want to do it now, when there's resources to do it, with money not from anyone, with money from the Greeks and the Greeks, who deserve and need these investments. They are priority actions, they are priority actions, they are planned actions that now have resources to carry them forward. Why would you be late? Why do you want to obstruct, obstruct, hinder the actions of the German Government? To criticize the government doesn't? So the opposition can say he does what he doesn't do? Look, they criticize because they say the government doesn't act and at the same time they criticize because the government acts. What are we left with? We will always find ourselves working for the Greeks and will certainly not be able to fall into the trap of obstructionism, that they neither do nor let them do, as the Socialist Government has shown since Moncloa with respect to the surplus for all these weeks and months. You follow that strategy of stopping everything, you remain set up in political obstructionism, which I don't think is really far away. We are actually going to try to pass laws like this, which aim to improve the lives of the Greeks. There are those who want to paralyze investments and who want to harm the whole set of citizenship if they think they can find votes there. We'll find ourselves always working to improve the lives of the Greeks, there we'll always be. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. We shall vote on this proposal. We vote. Vote on the proposal for a single reading procedure for the draft law granting a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 35; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. The processing of the draft law by means of a single reading procedure is therefore approved. Debates and votes, by means of a single reading procedure, on the draft law, granting a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u13	We started with the single reading procedure, and in particular — which we had already commented on — the debate and the vote, by the single reading procedure, of this bill. To present the bill, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for a time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I present today before the House the draft law of priority action reinforcement for 2019, a project that is necessary and urgent. This need and this urgency is justified by the three main objectives it pursues. First, take action, in the educational, health and social field, priority and planned for the coming years and which are now reinforced in 2019 thanks to the solvency of the Autonomous Community. Secondly, to improve primary care in the Galego Health Service, it consonates with the new planning and challenges that we have ahead of us over the next few years, as well as to improve health equipment. And thirdly, to do all of this using the accounting surplus of one hundred and twenty-five million euros of 2018, without penalizing compliance with tax rules for this year, thus avoiding the pitfalls and delays that the Central Government is imposing on Galicia in recent months. Fortunately in Galicia we have stability and autonomy and therefore we want and we can meet these objectives, because Galicia is a fulfilling and responsible community. In Galicia we have been fulfilling all fiscal rules for ten years, both in the worst moments of the crisis and in the years of economic recovery, and the result is that Galicia leads in the last decade the growth in per capita income of Spain, above all other communities with which we share the demographic challenge and aging, with its own model of healthy growth, which is characterized by having less deficit. Galicia is the third autonomous community that has most reduced its deficit since 2009 and managed to close 2018 with surplus for the first time since 2002. With less debt, Galicia is the autonomous community that has increased its debt volume since 2009, with more investments. Galicia is the second largest investor community in 2018. And with better pay to suppliers; Galicia is the autonomous community that better pays its bills all over Spain. Finally, in Galicia we have shown that it is possible to comply with all fiscal rules and, at the same time, to achieve more economic growth, more employment and more inclusion. We want to strengthen this model by investing a hundred and thirty million euros in priority and urgent actions, a hundred and twenty-five million of surplus plus five million euros in debt savings. And we can do it because in 2018, in addition to Galicia's compliance with all fiscal rules, it's improved its income and it's achieved that budget surplus. We met the debt limit because we had the limit set at 18.4% of GDP and we managed to reduce the debt and close with 18.1%. We met the payment limit to suppliers, and, as previously said, Galicia was the leader in accelerated payment during 2018. And all of our calculations tell us that we have also met, one more year, the spending rule, the question that unfortunately today has not yet been confirmed by the Ministry of Finance. We hope that now that the general elections have passed if it is made public — or just as we have to wait until May 26. And, as I have already made progress, the great novelty was the fact that Galicia, for the first time in sixteen years, closed the exercise with accountant surplus, which — I insist — we estimate in one hundred twenty-five million euros. In fact, we've been clearing the central government for weeks now that the difference between the one hundred and four million they calculate is for a cost they've computed twice. [[Applause]] When we met this data in February, we contacted the Ministry of Finance to be able to use this surplus, and the President of the Board himself asked him for a letter to use it, whenever the State Budget Bill had eliminated the possibility that autonomous communities would meet and with surplus could use it. We were loyal to the central government, as we always did, but we didn't get an answer. However, the position of the Government of Galicia has corrected the Central Government, which on 29 March passed a royal decree to reinvest the surplus, published in the BOE on 30 March and validated by Congress on 3 April. We managed to rectify the socialist executive, but we still could not use the surplus and could not use it in the needs of the Greeks. Since the German Government, we consider it a reasonable request to make the use of surplus more flexible, since this year the administrations are increasing with surpluses and all regulations must evolve depending on the different context and circumstances. Thus, the regulation of the use of surplus that made the Government of the PP is framed at a time when debt was to be controlled by its great increase in the worst moment of the economic crisis, in which Mr. Zapatero's socialist government had us. But we also need agility, to be able to use that surplus in services for the Greeks, priority investments in the social environment and the reinforcement of primary care. It seems logical, therefore, that Galicia, a community that fulfils, which never asks for more than its own, may use the money of all the Greeks for the benefit of all the Greeks. [[Applause]] And since we didn't have a proper response from the Central Government and we anticipated that the permission to invest the surplus would be extended over time, perhaps by the election call, we had to look for an alternative and agile way to, on the one hand, be able to invest even this surplus while being able to use it in what really needs the Greeks. That's why this government, since our autonomy and within our own competences, has prepared a legal mechanism to use the money of the Greeks in the public services of the Greeks, in a full exercise, therefore, of our self-government. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I want to remember that the royal decree only allows sustainable financial investments, and that's fine, but for a community like Galicia, which has years of sound accounts, it's not enough. This means that, for example, with this regulation, we could not hire more health personnel, which if we want to hire. That's why this bill is part of the alternative solution to use the liability surplus, and we can deal with priority actions going beyond the current budgets. Because there are performances that can't wait anymore. The investments we want to make in educational centres must be made during summer vacations, they must be completed at the beginning of the next school year. The same is true of the investments we've made in early childhood schools, and in addition, we want to prioritize and make as soon as possible reinforcements in primary care, both personnel and equipment. For all these reasons, in the Greek Government we have analysed all the possibilities and opted for this mechanism — straight — legal and that we can approve within our competences, in the exercise of our self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the successful closure of the 2018 budget exercise, with better income developments, we can undertake a series of self-debtedness reorganization operations in the public sector that generates savings on future fiscal charges and at the same time enables the expansion of a series of credit availability to finance these new priority actions. With this new provision, the non-financial expenditure devoted to amortising the debt of the Autonomous Community, in particular the SPI and Xestur entities, is financed. We will use surpluses to reduce the debt of the Autonomous Community, in particular in two tenths, by doing what the current laws say we must do. Because, of course, this operation falls within the state and autonomous laws of financial sustainability, in particular in Article 18 of our Galician Law, which states in its first point: "In the assumption that the budgetary liquidation is overwhelming with respect to the objective originally set out, the resources generated will be devoted to reducing the deficit in the exercise or the indebtedness of the Autonomous Community, secondly." But also something similar comes to state law when you simply read your article 14. We, on the one hand, have strictly complied with what these legal regulations say and at the same time have released budgetary appropriations for which we will finance these new investments in health care, education and social services. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups for a law that does something, in my opinion, as reasonable as investing in health care, education and social services, while reducing debt. With this alternative way we achieved what we were looking for from the beginning: reducing debt — and, as I say, in two tenths — generating new spending capacity; allocating to the Greeks the money that is from all the Greeks and not having to continue waiting for a government that only makes it a trap for the communities we meet, instead of bringing solutions. And how do we distribute the resources we're going to have? Thanks to this law, we have a total of ninety-six million euros, forty-eight this year and another forty-eight by 2020. The rest, up to one hundred and thirty million, a total of thirty-four million, will be available as an investment capacity in the Galague Infrastructure Agency, an agency that will carry out various priority actions in order, among those that highlight those that affect housing. This is about the global amount. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now explain the investments planned for this exercise in the standard I present today: EUR 20 million in health care, the other EUR 20 and the other two in education, six in social services and three in infrastructure. In health care, we guarantee commitment to strengthen primary care and include authorization for the progressive recruitment of more than 200 new nursing facilities and up to 300 other staff. The tendering of the urgent transport contract, with supplement to finance additional vehicles and services, as well as to ensure the wage increase of the new sector agreement. The construction and improvement and expansion of nineteen health centres, in addition to the new equipment both in primary care and at the moment in the hospital; in total, more than 40 million euros for health care between the two years. In the course of education, the goal is to improve the facilities of forty schools and institutes throughout the autonomous community and also to advance in the digitization of the student of Greek with the inclusion of new centers in the E-Dixgal plan. In fact, at last Thursday's Board of Trustees, we approved an advance of 21.4 million for improvements in twenty-two centers this 2019, as well as 1.3 million for strengthening the Digital Education Plan. In the area of social services, we provide for actions of improvement and energy efficiency in centres dependent on Social Policy, such as children's schools, older schools, residences. And for the middle of the countryside, last week three million euros were also anticipated for priority infrastructure actions in forest fire prevention. In addition, most of the actions we are going to carry out fall within the scope of sustainable financial investments, so its execution will not affect compliance with the spending rule this 2019, as it allows the real decree that the Central Government has approved the Galician authorities. In this way, with this law, we will be able to invest ninety-six million euros in two years, forty-eight in 2019 and another forty-eight in 2020, and — straight — to basically strengthen priority actions in health, education and social services. In addition to these ninety-six million, we will have thirty-four, seventeen million euros available each year, which are not part of this law but will be used in action through the Galician Infrastructure Agency. With this operation, legal and autonomous, Galicia guarantees that it will use 100% of its 2018 accountant surplus and that it begins to invest. We can do it because we have stability, because we exercise our financial autonomy and, therefore, we are making use of our self-government. Finally, the German Government has an obligation to give a legal and rapid response, so that it can invest the surplus it has obtained in 2018 thanks to the effort of all the Greeks and the Greeks. The Greek Government was responsible and fulfilled all and each of the tax disciplines that were the target of deficit, the target of debt, the cost rule. The Greek Government has rectified the Socialist Government to reinvest the surplus, but once this has been achieved, because the Central Government has not made the use of the surplus flexible or allowed it to be spent yet, the Government is speeding up a viable solution, because the needs of the Greeks can no longer wait. By this law we reduce and redefine debt, that is, we save in financial expenditures for the future; we expedite procedures for making those necessary investments, such as staff reinforcement and primary care equipment; and we invest both in educational centers and in schools during the summer vacation period. And we do it because we have that stability, that financial autonomy, and we exercise, as I said several times, our self-government. Besides, we've just learned that the Government of the Canary Islands will also use the surplus without waiting for permission from the Government of Spain. This confirms that the route used by Galicia is the right way. Galicia, as a fulfilling community, cannot pay for state political instability or expect a government in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to end by calling for the support of parliamentary groups for a law that is good for Galicia, because it is a good tool to strengthen the main needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u15	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole with alternative text, as well as positioning with respect to the bill. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u16	Good day again. Since the Galego Nationalist Block we have fundamentally disagreed, as we have already done before, of this bill, not only on the path followed for its processing, but also by the realization of its content, which shows, Mr. Martínez, a double failure: from the vigorous political framework that you have built, but also from the government's own planning, because part of what you have just told us now is an amendment to all of the budgets of the Galician Union, which we have amended, to those we have voted against, and that you have sold us as the way and the solution to the public services of this country. And, therefore, the first big mistake that this law already has is that it is supported in a true fallacy, because it speaks of the argument that is included in the legal text, but it speaks of all the lies that have been told to us by those responsible — or more irresponsible — the Government of the People's Party for the last few weeks. And as soon as we scratch it doesn't hold. So, since the BNG we deny the biggest: this is not a superpower law; this is neither the sudden conversion of Mr. Núñez Feijóo to a super hero who is going to fight the aggressions of the Spanish state in defense of Galicia; and of course, this law is not the magic restructuring of Galician debt that will bring us a rain of millions to solve the outcome that you have done in public services. [[Applause]] This law is no longer an overacting of the Government of Greece, a government led by a People's Party who is now down, who is concerned about the election result and wants to disguise, wants to conceal by making them rectification, when they are actually applying a smoke curtain to make them do for our public services, especially for health, at a time of crisis of this service, in which they have nails and teeth all professionals fighting and also users and users. And in short, we could begin to amend this law completely by changing its name, because, in fact, before what we are not a surplus law, it is an amendment of budgets by electoral campaign, Mr. Martínez; changes of budgets by electoral campaign, there is no other one. It may be covered by budget architecture in a fictional policy exercise, you can believe your own lies, but it is still a change per campaign. And very briefly I wanted to make some mention of the matter of surplus. Even though it's not a surplus law, it's necessary to put a number of questions on the table. Do we defend since the BNG that Galicia should have full capacity to decide how to reinvest your surplus? Well, of course, you're welcome, welcome to that. Does the BNG think that the framework for reinvestment of the surplus offered by the Spanish State is absolutely insufficient and conditioned? Well, so do. And, of course, we also defend that you should go to strengthen the public services of this country. But the question we have to ask ourselves is why it's not like that anymore. And the fact is that the main leaders are the positions of the People's Party, they are the political decisions of the People's Party, but of the Galician Union and also of the Central Government when you were. First, because it is no longer that Alberto Núñez Feijóo is not only the champion of austerity, it was his precursor. And that this which I have here, Mr. Martínez, to which you mentioned also in your intervention, is Law 2/2011, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability of Galicia. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] And who's like that? He did. What do you tell us, what do you tell us about the surplus? You made a vague mention as well, but that article 18 which conditions is precisely where you can and cannot go that surplus, and you were the first to, between choosing to pay the banks or paying medical and medical payrolls in this country, have chosen to pay the banks. Don't look at me like that, Mr. Martínez, because it is. [[Applause]] So they should have a little stink when they say according to these questions, a little stink at least. And secondly, because you were the precursors, but then you followed, with favor and consent, the path that followed the Spanish State, because then the Greek law came this idyllium of a summer night of August between the People's Party and the Socialist Party on which the express reform of the Spanish Constitution was carried out in its article 135 and then it was born, derived, the Montor law of the year 2012. And what do you tell us in article 32? Absolute priority of the debt. So the problem that we are as we are is this way of proceeding during the years of economic recession. You, first, pushed this political corset that conditions, first, our economic autonomy and therefore our political autonomy — so, above all, you don't have the courage to wear this as a self-government superexercise -- and secondly, they prioritized the payment of debt over popular interests and they were the best students in the austere class, and that had consequences. So, with this story because you have little credibility. This is seen as one more political posture, because they're at the door of elections and because they don't rule in Madrid now. If I had ruled the People's Party tomorrow, we're convinced they'd say something different. We must also deny another of the great fallacies that are selling us with this process, because there is quite a distance between what they tell us about debt management and what reality is. And there's a reduction in debt due to market conditions -- that's right -- but that doesn't cover reality. As much as you overact, Mr Martínez, the fact is that President Núñez Feijóo was the president of this country's debt, and with the latest available data from the Banco de España - not the BNG - we have the debt in more than EUR 11 billion; if we add public-private partnerships, more than EUR 14 billion. You've caused more than 70% of the debt this country owes today. So because of a lot of restructuring that sells us, it doesn't make the biggest difference: that we see an important problem in this sense. Because the basic question is, what did we use that debt? Did that debt help us, at the time of the economic recession, to support our public services and have them in an acceptable position? Well, the answer is no. And it's only enough to get out of this Parliament, open your eyes and see the emergency situation in the country, an emergency situation in the economic fabric; an emergency situation in the working tissue, with the consolidation of temporality; an emergency situation in the public services, especially — I insist — in health care. You have Vigo's doctors and doctors again calling for mobilisations for the 21nd and 22nd of this month. You have the nurses and nurses in a fight, in which they already call Penegra. They have lots of health centers protesting several days of the week throughout the country, such as The Street every Monday, etc., etc., etc.I wouldn't have enough time left to do an X-ray all over the country. But the question is that this emergency situation has many causes. First, that centralist political framework that you remain unquestionable and that is above social and human rights, and, on the other hand, also the poor management of the Galician Union. We understand that this project too is evidence of the Galician Board's inability, first of all, to a side issue you didn't mention, which is that insufficient funding system we have, which in 2019 continues to give us less than in 2009 and which therefore limits our ability to act very much. Galicia has to support these skills, such as teaching and health, and it does not have enough resources. You come here to do rhetoric, but you don't put a single long-term structural proposal for the future of this country. But we also have to say that part of our reaching this point because it is precisely the mismanagement of the Galician Union and the bad planning that you make. It's not something BNG says anymore. We can refer to the reports of the Board of Auditors, which indicate how you abuse the Continent Fund and a long et cetera. We can talk about that game of unforeseen extinctions, etc., etc. But above all, the self-denominated Government of rigour in this bill is proving to us that you don't plan well. First of all, because you're making the dairy bills. I don't know anymore, honestly; it's just that you're delirious to hear it. I brought several press releases from Galician Union, and even statements from Niñez Feijóo, or even listening to you, it's that there's no one to clarify anymore, because one day they say it's going to be a hundred and twenty million, another day they say a hundred and twenty-five, another day I say center thirty. It's just a delusional matter. I don't know how you can come to defend this bill, where all of us can see the box of the cash count that is mobilized, which is forty-eight million, and continue talking about one hundred thirty-five. Is that how it can be possible? You guys are laughing, but it really isn't... as Castelao says: the story is very sad; we don't laugh because the story is very sad. I promise your lords that, when I printed this text and began to look at it, I went back to the photocopier, because I said, I lost some painting on the way to the office, because I didn't get my accounts. And, in fact, reality is beyond fiction. But I wanted to crumble a little about the content of this project. And the first thing that attracts our attention is absence. It is a pity that Mr. Conde had left for coffee, but it is true that even recently, when he appeared in this Parliament, he is one of the most insistent advisors that Galicia needed that surplus for essential investments within its councils, but there is not a single game that goes for economic impulse, with the situation that we are in this country. But then, by entering the issues that you vote on, we are following the costs of teaching, and indeed works for twenty-three centres — as if there were no more than a thousand centres in this country. Since the BNG — you are laughing — we have brought cases to this Parliament that have had no choice but to accept, because we are talking about centres like Burela's, in which it rained inside. In fact, we think that many of those works that you point out are necessary, of course they are, but the question is that you have misplanned, and the evidence is that we are being sold that we need to pass this law because, if not, we don't do these works in summer, but then they talk about works that are already projected by 2020, which is a delusion. It's a delusion that sells us as the great magic wand that you need to make this move to fulfill a plan that, otherwise, would not fulfill. It's just that it's an absolute nonsense and it shows that they're organized badly. The same applies to spending on social policy. Of course, you reach six million for social policy, which is clearly insufficient. I want to remember that you've already spent a third of what you plan on this law just because you've already arranged and privatized the center of Montealegre in Ourense. The centres on the Montealegre side in Ourense cook in summer and cool in winter, but you, with six million, will fix that and they'll fix a lot of what's left in the country. Of course, we don't believe anything. It also draws attention to the fact that with regard to the rural environment — of course!, as the issue of fires is very sensitive — you intend to put three million euros into the rural environment and that we automatically sign and say yes. And of course they're necessary, but the evidence is that we're in May and this reveals a very bad planning. It's raining today, but it's only yesterday that half a country was thirty degrees ago and you have the medium gas protection and prevention and intervention service, Mr. Martínez, the medium gas. And it is therefore essential that this should be taken as a major step forward and not as a demonstration that they actually plan badly. But I wanted to stop at the question that seems more urgent right now, that is all about health spending, and that they have also sold us over the last few weeks that this is going to be the health spending revolution, and really what we read here in the little letter because it's the top of the hives. They come here in disguise this budgetary modification of the panacea for health, but then they don't allocate half of these forty-eight million. But, above all, if we go in there in detail, it shows an absolute lack of foresight. You were also talking — and Mr Tellado himself — about planned games. He lied, because, for example, they create a game, which didn't exist, of primary care equipment. Home!, because the minimum will be to come here to apologize and assume it was an error not to have planned a set of primary care equipment. As for staff, I don't really know what you're talking about either, that's also the rain of numbers: one day they say 200 professionals, another day they say 200, another day they say 300 -- it must be either as they wake up or as they give the sun in San Caetano or not -- but the accounts don't give, because they're allocating 1.5 million for group A and two for the continuity of temporary work. But this neither solves the immediate need for recruitment nor solves the future need, which, moreover, I hope I have not always planned to pay for the current surplus. But in any case, the accounts do not give, unless you tell us that — I don't know — they won't pay the Social Security to doctors. But the truth is, the accounts don't. And, therefore, since the BNG, although this law deserved a return text, a return text and back to the Government, we have the responsibility that you do not have, and then we present an alternative text with two objectives: first, to highlight that it is possible to allocate more content than you put on the table; so we mobilize in our amendment eighty-eight million plus, and thus also reflect the importance of centralizing efforts in health care, which is where we include that money as much as we mobilize, demonstrating that it is possible, and that, although we do not like this mechanism, in view of the urgency that is living the country, we would be willing to sit down and dialogue with the Government of Wales. There's no exercise here of the apriorisms where this opposition group comes to say not because it's not; it's not that. There is simply a fundamental discrepancy with which this is neither the magic recipe nor whether the efforts are intended where they should be, as we also reflect in the discussions of previous budgets. So then I'll add a few more questions about what it seems to us to be budget makeup that they do, because they increase games that already increase every year, because they're underfinanced; they put splits that they cut in 2018 and so what they're doing is covering up their own holes and a long et cetera. But, in conclusion, we have to regret that today there will not be a major effort by the Government of Greece, which will not result in a correction of its general economic policy, because it is at the expense of this country's public services, and that today they are exclusively at the service of electoral campaigns. We understand that in the long term it is necessary to correct these policies of the Galician Union and also in the medium term of the general political framework, because this country cannot have its public services sufficiently endowed is responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u18	...first, of that general political framework, centralist and debt management service, and second, of a poor planning and permanent submission that the Government has led by Alberto Núñez Feijó in the last decade. And, therefore, on this first shift, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u20	Good morning again. Well, Mr. Tellado, with the approach you make here in relation to the single reading procedures, we can bring all the laws by single reading, because the report of the lawyers only says that it is a political decision that takes the whole of the House. Then we can bring them all. [[Applause]] Of course, within the limits of Parliament is an impediment for the Galician Union to make a more agile management. But that's not the conception we have. I don't know if it's Vox's, I suppose not yours, I suppose, I hope not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. Law decrees are then valid and justly passed in the Permanent Deputies. You voted against the one who allowed the use of surpluses, voted against that bill, the People's Party, the main impediment to Galicia being able to do so, and the Socialist Party and other groups voted in favour. [[Applause]] Which allows us to discuss some things here today, not this, not this, which is the first question. We have to begin by explaining what this bill consists of, because this bill has nothing to do with the surplus, rather than with the fancy formulation they make from Galicia, where they force us to pursue Chinese shadows, move things, and then that project itself on a white wall and it looks like they're doing something else. But that doesn't have to do with the surplus. Why doesn't it have to do with the surplus? Because, although Galicia had closed the previous exercise in balance, this bill could be brought here today and we could approve it exactly the same. And, therefore, this has nothing to do with the surplus, this has to do with other things that are election needs of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] I dare you to quote me in the articulated, Mr. Tellado, you, who will talk later, I challenge you to quote me in the articulated or in the annex some reference to the surplus, some. There's none, there's none. It is more, in the explanatory statement itself, that indicates — which is good, because it is real — that the expenditure of the Galician Union, the overall expenditure of the Galician Union, is not modified. Indeed, it does not change the expenditure. They're internal transfers, they're credit changes within that cost perimeter. If spending is not modified, it means that additional resources are not being applied; resources already in Galicia are being applied when we approve the budget at the end of last year. Say it to the explanatory statement. [[Applause]] Do you want me to read the explanatory statement, where does it say this exactly? It says: it does not mean an increase in the appropriations of the consolidated budget, it does not mean an increase in the appropriations of the consolidated budget. It's written here, Counselor, it's written here. It does not mean an increase in the appropriations for the consolidated budget. [[Mr. Fernández Leicega shows a document.]] That's... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] As far as indebtedness is concerned, see, the source of the funds, for the most part — after which we have the IGVS — comes from funds from the Galaga Infrastructure Agency and other funds from the Union, which are destined for the Public Investment Society and which are withdrawn from it. But these funds, in the annexes themselves where credit losses are established, are said: thirty-two million who withdraw, new work, new work by mandate to the Public Investment Society, new work, i.e. to make investment; in addition, it is a concept of chapter VI, investments, it is new work, chapter VI, investments. Investments from the Public Investment Society are withdrawn and destined for something else. A fundamental part is allocated to educational centres, social centres, health equipment, health centres, other investments. All right, all right. They withdraw from something, move on to something else, internal transfers. And this consists of the bill that is being discussed today. Let's not fool ourselves: we're talking about it; then, if we're talking about it, let's talk about it. What's this about here? So it's about that the Galician Board, with months of delay, recognizes that the opposition was right in the debate of the 2019 budget when it said that there were few resources for investment, few resources for social investment, which we were repeating throughout this entire investment process. And now, months of delay, they give us the reason. Perfect! All right, it's good that they rectify, it's fine, but they don't reign us, and they rectify and do it humbly, saying, "We're wrong; and actions that now present to us as absolutely priorities didn't contemplate them in December." What happened? Now they're absolutely priority, you have to do them before summer. But in December they weren't. What's wrong? When it was possible to do it, because that's another part. You are violating the very law of the Galician Council's financial and budgetary regime, which the first says is that the Contingency Fund must be used for these needs, if they are unpredictable, if they cannot be delayed. Right, of the twenty-and so many million or nearly twenty million investments for Sergas, they would have to use the Sergas Continent Fund to fund it, and they don't, and tell the Financial and Budget Act. They could do it from there. And I'd like to know how the credits are in April, because the change in budget execution since last year to this!, so that the credits in April of the sections that you talk about by references are exhausted and not allowed to do any of this. I'd like to see it, we don't have that information, and it's a problem, because we should have it, so we can judge better what they're proposing, because they're asking us to make blind decisions, and that shouldn't be done to a democratic Parliament like this. You have to give information, you have to be transparent, and if you don't, you can't ask us for responsibility or you can ask us to make a concrete-centred opposition, to fine-tune things. That's why we're going to do the same thing as BNG, we're going to make an amendment to the whole, where we do -- say -- a global assessment of what you tell us, and we're saying we're not going to oppose these changes in investments for schools, health centers, social centers; we're not opposed to this. We think it might be, because we have no information, and we can't decide. However, like BNG, we say that the correction they make is insufficient, that if they really want to make a change in health policy, which is the most important one, they have to be much more determined; that if they want to make a change in health policy, they cannot pay off the hiring of the new staff with 1.5 million euros. It's not enough. We propose to multiply by seven or eight that figure, and if you want to make a change in the working conditions of those who are hired in lamentable conditions temporarily in health care, you also have to allocate more resources for this year. That's why we propose to allocate a lot more resources for this in our amendment. And those are the changes, as well as substantially strengthening Sergas' investment capacity, in at least thirty million extras, about what you're proposing. When they vote but not for our amendment, they will vote that they do not substantially strengthen Sergas' ability to intervene, both in terms of personnel and investment; they will vote only on that. Do not confuse, we are not going to oppose the partial correction they make in social matters, but we want more decision, more strength, more resources, and we believe, in addition, that, after months of conflict in health care, of so many meetings held with different collectives and representatives, of so many promises made to different collectives about changes in working conditions, about the improvements in primary care centers, about so many things, that cannot be met with the small amounts of additional resources that you raise. There's more possibilities to squeeze the budget, and so that's where we have to make a bigger effort. Let me end with a reference to the most substantive debate, to the question of the architecture of budgetary stability, which is also in this debate in another way, and to what I am going to devote two or three minutes. We are in favour of an architecture of budgetary stability, which seems reasonable to us. We don't share the advisor's version, which is that when we're in deficit we say we're going to devote the surplus to debt, and when we're in surplus, then we have to have the ability to allocate it to something else, because that's cheating on the lonely. The architecture of stability has to work both in times of crisis and in times of economic recovery. It's even more important in times of economic recovery, because that's when you have to generate the mattress that allows you to deal with crisis situations. What happens is, at the same time, we must not be so fundamentalist and so dogmatic at any of the times. That is why we always argue that in the architecture of stability, for example, investment costs should be exempted, and that this should be done in times of crisis and in times of recovery, because investment costs are an impulse to economic growth and modernization if they are done with reasonable criteria, not only financial efficiency but social efficiency. And that's what needs to be changed, and welcome if you tell me now that you are in favour of this, because then, Counselor, I have to tell you that the first thing I hope you do, being a government with an absolute majority, is that you bring here a proposal to amend Law 2/2011, which obliges at all times to reduce the deficit or the debt of surplus money, because you're telling me that: I'm going to invent some procedure to override that legally binding rule; it's that it's a Galician standard. Yes, I know it's formally about compliance, but it's going to be something else. Yes, yes, that's what you're telling me, because you said here that this is a surplus law — that it isn't — and at the same time tells me that I'm going to comply with the law. [[Murmurs.]] So it's either a surplus law -- and so it's meant to be a social surplus -- or it's not. What are we left with? Because if it isn't, and it's a more complex operation, like the one I think you have in mind, but we can't debate today because we don't have it in front of it, and materially today the law only talks of forty-eight million, not of ninety-six, not of one hundred twenty-five, not of the one hundred thirty incorporating the additional amounts derived from less financial expenditure, we speak of forty-eight. But, in any case, if you tell me that, under certain conditions, the use of surplus must be made more flexible, we agree, but then you have to amend Law 2/2011, and you should bring here a proposal to amend that law, and be sure that you will find an echo in our group to make this change. Just as you had here — you know — to demand that the Government of Spain make a more flexible regulation of the use of surpluses, that they are also demanding the councils, and that you have faced for many years with the wall which meant the position of Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Montoro, who said no, that no, that no, because it was a condition that they did not allow in terms of political flexibility. But if you agree with that, you should have voted in favour of the proposal that we made — not in the previous plenary session, but in the plenary session a month ago — on this subject, and you did not vote in favour of it. There is therefore a certain discrepancy between what they proclaim and then what they do in political terms. They bring here a proposal to amend the law, stand against the overall position of their party, Mr. Married, which is something else, and they will have something more credibility. I'm done. I think we should discuss the forty-four million, which is what brings us here. Those forty-four million are insufficient and that's why we incorporate sixty million additional for health care, for personnel and for investment. They vote for it. And thirdly, if you want us to discuss a flexibility of austerity policy, welcome, but bring the proposal, which has an absolute majority, and we'll discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u21	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Turn in favour and against the amendments of the spokespersons to be positioned. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u22	Good morning. The People's Party is in times of rectification, also in budgetary policy, because the bill we are debating today is a correction in every rule of its governance practice at the Galician Council in the last ten years. First of all, because this bill recognizes what all groups of this House, except the People's Parliamentary Group, we have been saying all the legislation, and the past legislation: that the budgetary resources to serve the basic public services of our country are clearly insufficient. Hard cuts in health care, education, social policy, applied in ten years of austerity, have severely deteriorated their quality, and therefore it is essential to increase their resources. Now, today, the People's Party comes to give us reason, and it does so in addition using a processing procedure that should even alert us to this deterioration of basic public services, because this model of debate of a single read law is justified only in cases of urgency. What shall we understand, Counselor? Does public health or education urgently need funds to ensure its functioning? Is that what you're saying to Galician Union? The answer, when we look at the actual figures, is that this is not the case, because, in fact — I have said it clearly — we are faced with a budgetary change of scarce content, which does not justify the fuss generated by the President of the Galician Council on this subject. The bill, as it has been said, is a change of just forty-eight million euros, a smaller figure, because in reality this operation is still one more, one more, of the numerous credit changes that are made in an ordinary way all exercises. And this leads us to the second relevant issue of this debate, because what brings together the Galician Union today is an accounting trick, to try to circumvent the legal restrictions that prevent us from doing what the Union wants to do: to allocate a supposed budget surplus to finance current spending. Counselor, a trick, an artifact, an exercise in creative budget engineering. Choose me the name you want. You used one yourself, which I never stopped worrying about; called it "alternative solution." And I'm going to tell you something I've been seriously concerned about. I don't know if Members and Members were able to pay attention, but the advisor insisted four times, four times, that the proposal was legal. He had to insist four times that the proposal brought by the Galician Council to this House is legal. But, Counsellor, that's a qualifier, say that a bill that brings Galician Union to this House is legal? Do you have to insist that it's legal? Why do you have to say four times in this House that your proposal is legal? What's the point? I'd be glad to explain it, because I think, at the bottom of it, you know that what you're using is a budget trick. Because they don't dare question the rules of austerity, they resort to an intertwined route, to a trick, but this fearful strategy is going to enter a permanent conflict, such as the municipalities of the whole state and our country for years, and because, even if they don't want to recognize it, the bill that today -- well, the newspaper said it was approved -- is going to approve in this House a challenge in the practice of austerity architecture, that institutional and normative framework imposed by Troika from the year 2010. Here I shall express the only difference I have with the intervention of the spokesman of the Socialist Party. We are not faced with a framework of budgetary stability architecture. No, no, no, no. In any case, budgetary stability architecture has been approved by the Maastricht Treaty by establishing 3% deficit and 60% debt on GDP. This is a fiscal architecture of austerity, because it aims not to balance public accounts, but to reduce public spending. That's why it's an architecture of austerity. We agree, Counsellor, because it is our position from the beginning, and we repeat it here every time we discuss the rules in which this austerity architecture is implemented, particularly in the debate on the expenditure ceiling. And we do it because for us the needs of people, of citizenship, have to be above the interests of banks. That's why we defend the urgent need to end the architecture of austerity, which restricts the capacity of the different levels of government, also those of the Galician Union and the municipalities, to allocate more resources for the well-being of citizenship. I'm going to say it clearly, in case there is any doubt: we are in favour of allocating the highest incomes and budgetary surpluses to increase the resources of health, education and social policy. But, Counselor, let us be clear and consistent: in order to do so, the laws that prevent it today must be repealed. First, to repeal Law 2/2011, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, a law of which you are your intellectual father, more known as a spending ceiling; a law of which you claim every year in this House to be the first government to set strict limits on the evolution of public spending. You've already said, but as I think that at the bottom of this is the real debate we're having in this House, I'm going to remember some elements of that austerity architecture that are in your law and the Montoro law. In Law 2/2011, of the People's Party of Galicia, adopted in this Parliament, it is said: the fundamental instrument for incorporating budgetary discipline is to prevent extraordinary income from being incorporated into the administrative structure through current expenditure. It's also said: setting a non-financial spending limit that will allow you to use those extraordinary revenues in amortizing debt. Article 18 of that law, which I believe is the fundamental in that case, says: on the assumption that the budgetary liquidation is overwhelmed in respect of the objective originally set, the resources generated will be devoted to reducing the deficit in the exercise or indebtedness of the Autonomous Community. You were the intellectual father of this law, who has a daughter, Law 2/2012, the Montoro law, which establishes this architecture of austerity in the whole state. In Article 12.5 of a state law of obligation to comply with our country, it is stated that the income obtained above what is foreseen will be intended in full to reduce the level of public debt. This same law, in its Article 12, states: In the case of the budgetary liquidation of the surplus, it shall, in the case of the State, autonomous communities and local corporations, be intended to reduce the level of indebtedness. And I do not resist, even though it does not have to do with what we are discussing directly today, to read a paragraph of this law which should be contained in the enthusiasm of indignity: The payment of the interests and the capital of the public debt of the administrations will have absolute priority over any other expenditure. A text in which the spirit of the reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, as amended by the Troika, is realized, imposing that the interests of the bank and investment funds are above the interests of the citizenry. Derogation of these rules is urgent, because the limitation of expenditure, i.e. the rules they require, Counsellor, the rules that require the allocation of higher income to reduce debt, are designed precisely for the expansive phases of the economic cycle. In the recession, the spending ceiling law has little operation, because the drop in revenue already acts as a brake on public spending. It's at times like today's, when the economy grows and, therefore, public income increases, by the time these rules are thought about, this discipline that aims to prevent public spending from increasing. That's why it's not an architecture of budgetary stability, it's an architecture of austerity. Finally, but no less important, it is determining what is the source of that supposed budget surplus of 2018. To say this clearly, the provisional surplus result in the 2018 accounts is not the result of an increase in the public revenues of the Galician Union, but a reduction in expenditure. This is a fundamental difference, because the hundred and twenty-five million euros of surplus that the councillor is talking about do not correspond to an improvement in management that would have allowed to increase income. On the contrary: the 2018 winding-up reflects that at the end of the year the revenues were below the budget. In particular, in the settlement given to parliamentary groups, the non-financial income paid is lower than that provided for in the budgets by seventy-six million euros. Therefore, the supposed surplus of what was earned here by the advisor is due solely to the fact that the Board did not spend the whole budget in 2018. And here it's very relevant to know what are the fundamental games in which the board no longer spends the funds of its own. Basically, it is the programmes that make up employment policy, support for the social economy, housing policy and the German R & D+i Plan. In order for you to understand correctly, the supposed surplus of what the Galician Council calls for is that it ceases to spend money on unemployed people, access to housing and technology development in our country. And that's intolerable for us. Finished with a question to the councillor. Mr. Martínez, are you going to have the courage within three months to bring to this House the spending ceiling law? Will you get the Galician Parliament to approve a figure and a procedure that is solely aimed at preventing the proposal being brought forward today by the People's Party? If he had, he would have shown that this is nothing more than an ordinary exercise of electoral propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u23	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Before passing on to the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group, we greet the students and students of the 1st and 2nd ESO of the Valadares Institute of Vigo, and their teachers or their companions. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. We are debating today a law to strengthen priority actions for the year 2019, a law that enables the surplus of one hundred and twenty-five million euros of 2018 to be available, and to devote it to priority actions, actions planned for education, health and social issues. We can do it because Galicia was an autonomous community. We have complied with all the spending rules (less deficit, less debt), we have been able to make the investments our community needed, and so what we want is to return to the Greeks what corresponds to the Greeks, nothing more and nothing less. But the truth is, once we hear the opposition groups, we have to ask ourselves many questions: are you against using the surplus in reforming educational centres? Are you against using the surplus to improve primary care, which they say defend, full yes and full as well? Are you against making new investments in forest matter now, before summer comes? Are you against making improvements in social centers? Are you against us reducing the debt of our Autonomous Community with these resources? You are portraying yourself in this plenary, clearly, clearly. We are talking about ninety-six million euros to invest: forty-eight million euros this year, forty-eight million euros next year; twenty-two million euros in health care this 2019, twenty-two million euros in education, six million euros in social services, three million euros in rural infrastructure. Are you against it? Why are they going to vote against? As our president would say, what are we accused of? What are we accused of? About speed and effectiveness in our management? Well, we accept the criticism. What about being strict in economic management? We accept criticism. If you want to improve public health? We accept criticism. Do you want to improve the education of the Greeks? We accept criticism. If you want to invest more in social services? We accept criticism. We accept criticism, but, in any case, you're portrayed, you're still in "the worst, the better," you're portrayed in that position of stopping everything altogether. They're against creating 200 new places for doctors and nursing staff; you tell those who manifest themselves. You're against improving or expanding nineteen health centers; you tell them to the PACs on strike, tell them when they leave this room. You're against improving the facilities of forty schools and institutes in our community. That's the opposition we have today in Galicia, that's the reality. Look, the fact is that the Greek Government today brings a law to this plenary that reduces Galician indebtedness, so that Galicia continues to be an autonomous community in debt control—we don't say so, the Banco de España—a law that saves financial expenses, because with less debt we will pay less interest—that's reality—and a law that will allow us to finance — and already, now — investments in health, education, social services and rural areas. Are you really going to vote against this? Does the BNG, who always says he defends Galicia, really vote against a law that is nothing more and nothing less than the exercise of our self-government? There you are, there you are. Mr. Lago, you come to this plenary without your duty. I guess you haven't given him time, you have problems at home, you have problems at home... Man, it's obvious, because you don't bring any amends. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, come here to think, but amends, of no kind. I understand you'll be distracted. They ask for more but don't specify where or for what. You insist that this processing is legal. It's very good that you insist precisely on the legality of the procedure, because you have to remember that your group's amendments to the budgets this year have been qualified by the Juridical Services of this House as illegal, because they suppressed the payment of debt. Do you remember being shot by the Juridical Services of this House? I understand you insist on legality. [[Applause]] At this full and at this point we see the opposition playing the usual: to snort and blow. With their amendments they demonstrate the absolute inconsistencies of the opposition. First they ask you not to pass this law and now they ask for more money. What are we left with? Look, Mr. Leicega, you were talking improvisation. Look, we didn't improvise anything here. You're talking about improvised performances. See, the education performances were approved by the Galician Board of Directors on January 17, 2019 in the 2016-2021 Education Infrastructure Plan; all planned. The only improvising here are the opposition lords. [[Applause]] But I certainly have to tell them it's normal... Don't get nervous, Mrs. Vilan. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's normal, you don't understand this debate, you're not qualified to understand this debate, you don't understand the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u25	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u26	We understand perfectly well that you do not know very well what the debate is going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u27	Silence! Let's not start. We have guests. Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u28	Look, Mrs. Vilan, you'll understand now. If you were to rule, this debate wouldn't be taking place. If you were to rule, you wouldn't need this law. You know why? Because there would be no surplus, because you're the deficit. It was Rodríguez Zapatero and now, in very few months, is already his successor, Mr. Pedro Sánchez. So how will you understand the debate of the surplus if you are those of the deficit and the debt? [[Applause]] That's the reality. Mr. Leicega, you have today a weak memory, because Galician Financial Stability Act counted on the vote in favour of the Socialist Party; we approved it in 2011; it was the times when Zapatero reformed the Constitution so that Europe would not intervene in Spain. Remember? That's what you forgot. Look, the socialists are crazy. I understand that, because they don't agree with everything that has happened in recent times. And you know why? Because Galicia was right. First, we force the government to rectify the surplus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u29	Silence, Mr. Losada! Silence! Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u30	...because in the general budget project of the state of 2019, which was overthrown by Congress of Deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u31	Chisst. Calm down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u32	...they were preventing you from reinvesting the surplus, the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u33	A little quiet for everyone. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u34	And now we just want no more sticks on the wheel, because we're already in May and we're still without any news from his government, there's no news from his government. What do you want? May the Galician Union sit watching to see if the Socialist Government reacts? The Galician Union acts and defends the interests of the Greeks. Why don't you guys do the same thing? Oh, no! [[Applause]] It's just that you're installed in the submission. Look, Galicia's surplus has to be useful to the Greeks, not to pay for the financial problems of other communities that do not comply with the rules repeatedly. Galicia cannot be penalized for doing things well, Galicia cannot be penalized for complying with the rules of spending year after year and for being a fulfilling autonomous community. But this is the usual. The opposition has us used to give back Galicia and defend the Socialist Party, as usual; it does the PSdEG-PSOE and make its appearances; we're used to it. You criticized the Board for claiming the monthly VAT. What happened next? That the socialist government has rectified and gave us reason. That's right. Of the 200 million we still don't know anything. You don't say anything about the deliveries the Government of Spain owes to Galicia; we're talking about 300 million euros. You don't say anything about the incentive for the autonomous fulfilling communities either. In total, we're talking about eight hundred twenty-five million euros that are from Galicia and to those that the Central Government still doesn't give answers. I understand that this is a new Greek Socialist Party, installed in the fake news, Mr. Leicega. Look, you publicly said in this Parliament that Galicia could not use the 2018 surplus in health care, said here in this House. What happened next? For the minister of Fairy, who is of his own party, said yes, that we could spend it on health; first fake news. In this House too, Mr. Leicega, you accused in this plenary of the Fairy Counsellor that he would violate the expenditure rule of 2017. Remember that? We believe it was a very serious accusation — it is serious no. You accused him. It was in full approval of the spending ceiling on 16 October 2018. Do you know what happened later? That the Ministry ended up giving reason to the Galician Council. If you have complied with the 2017 spending rule. That's the reality. Look, you're set up in absolute obstructionism, there's the Government of Spain and there's the PSdeG-PSOE as a comparison and puppet of the Government of Spain, and here all of us are to defend the interests of Galicia and the interests of the Greeks. The socialists' actions throughout this process can only be described as obstructionist, totally. First, from the central government they tried to block a fair claim from Galicia and the Galician Union and now, from the Greek Parliament, they tried that this administrative procedure wasn't all the agile that could become. What did you pursue? What do you want? Could we not improve our educational and health infrastructure? Is that what they want? That we couldn't do it before summer, which is what our educational centers need? What do you earn by trying to put sticks on the wheels of the German Government? I think nothing, and Galicia, of course, is not. Look, we call on all groups to support this bill because this is an initiative that is not an ideological initiative but an initiative that thinks about Galicia's interests. Think of investing in Galicia, thinking of taking advantage of the loyalty, seriousness, the rigor of Galicia to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, and thinking of reversing in Galicia the efforts that the Greeks and the Greeks make day by day to bring forward this autonomous community. Galicia never asked for more than anyone, but she doesn't want less than anyone, and that's why it deserves the rigorous work that we do, which the Greek Government does, but which makes the whole of our society, does not serve to pay for the demos of other communities, but to return that effort to the whole of Greek society. You have this bill as an opportunity to portray yourself. Are you worried about public health? Well, they support this bill. Do you want to improve education? Support this bill. Do you want to make investments in social services facilities? Support this bill. On the contrary, it will be clear that you are here alone and flatly to put sticks on the wheel of the Government of Galicia. We, of course, are here to solve people's problems, not to paralyze and obstruct administrations. That is how everyone interprets the citizen's mandate that we receive in the ballot boxes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica of amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u36	It was better if Mr. Martínez had come now, that we had picked up the debate a little more, but at last, he'll shut you down. Well, as the first question with regard to the amendment to the whole of the Socialist Group, we will also position ourselves favourably, because if there are differences, especially because we base our exposition of motives more on a matter of framework and political substance, the fact is that both of us coincide with their differences on two points which seem very relevant to us. One, which is not less, given what we have heard, which is the constructive will, the will of, yet not liking this frame, this procedure, to seek an emergency exit to take urgent but real measures for our public health. And secondly, the demonstration that there really is a capacity for more investment than is being offered to us, and therefore in the face of this electoral propaganda, it would be possible to make money changes in budgets that would actually allow a health bet. I also want to remember in this House that there is not so much, this year 2019, the Galician Nationalist Block has introduced a law with urgent measures for primary care, mobilizing two hundred seventy-three million euros, and that the People's Party has voted against, Mr. Tellado. And today, when they apply the knee, we'll also see how, in the face of the most comprehensive proposal, you don't want to sit down and talk about it and negotiate it. But it's okay. What we will continue to tell the health workers is that we do not surrender, and in the next plenary session we will also bring a proposal for a health law reform law that we have already registered on the same line. Turning to the issues, firstly, briefly, said the spokesperson of the People's Party in the previous turn basically that we were bothering because we wanted to debate three months and talk about politics — a crazy thing, in parliament, debate three months and talk about politics. So, we're putting sticks on the wheels, when we're not even going to be able to partially amend this text. And then he ended up saying that we don't understand and that we're not trained. Well, this is the level of attitude so procly to the dialogue of the People's Party, and it retreats by itself. [[Applause]] After that, we heard that we have complicity with the central government, complicity with the central government, when it was the People's Party which, while still ruling in the central government, voted again and again against such elementary issues as claiming the debt that Madrid has with us in terms of dependence. That's also why they portray themselves. Then the arguments of the People's and Government's Party turn around that, of course, from Galicia we can do this because we are fulfilling, but it's really the question is completely different. What we have to ask ourselves is why we have to do this since Galicia. It is precisely by the framework of the fulfilment of the deficit that you have crafted and prioritized the payment of debt, because you are the precursors of austerity first, because you are complicit in this reform of the Constitution later and by quietly assuming that Montor law. And that adds up to a bad planning — I insist — because in this law that is presented to us — I repeat again — both the teaching works, which were already planned, as well as the social policy works, as you add from the rural environment, which represents that they have not done their duties in time and what they represent is that in many of the issues that we have raised in the budgetary debates of all this legislation we were more than right. And it also reveals that they aren't even consistent with their own arguments, because they're selling us the motorcycle works, which are going to drop schools in cachos, if they don't take place in these summer months, and then, in the same planning that they attach to us, there are issues that are already planned for 2020, which is an absolute delusion and the failure to implement a plan of the Galician Union. Then, at least, I insist you should apologize. And the question they were asking, are we against these improvements? No, we're not against it, because we've been insisting for years that there are structural needs to meet. We are not against it because we bring initiatives to this Parliament on issues of one kind or another with some of the things that appear here, but what we have to say is that it is absolutely insufficient what is being done. That's why we present, with all the stains that we can put on this process, a whole amendment to what we demonstrate there is the capacity to do more, and there is the ability to do more on the most urgent and important issue that we have as a political challenge in this country, which is to support our public health and compensate it after ten years of the decade Feijóo of cuts and insufficiency. That is why, when we leave this Parliament, as Mr Tellado said, and speak to the workers and workers of health, whom we naturally manifest ourselves and we will continue to manifest, what we will tell them is that for us it will not stay; that, despite this work of fiction policy and of simulation to which we are subjected today, we will continue to propose questions and numbers on the table so that there will be an exit, because this is no longer a patch. It's an absolute fallacy that we're talking about one hundred and twenty million. I insist : I brought the painting already to teach it. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] They say what they say, these are the papers, these are the tables; they are forty-eight million, or 0.5% of the budgets of the Galician Union. This is not enough and this is not the sudden rebellion of the super hero Feijóo in front of the central government, because it is not at all nor what corresponds to us for surplus or the magic wand to support our public services. And, therefore, we will say "no" to this trapping process and we will continue to do our opposition work by presenting alternatives that are viable and that if they bring about changes in the medium and long term so that we have a worthy future in this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u38	Well, here again, Mr. Tellado. He was very affected by the results of the recent election Sunday. The truth is, it's good, it's good. [[Applause]] And I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised, eh! because, in fact, there's a new PSdEG that wins the election. There is new the Socialist Party of Galicia, to win the elections. But you do, look, very quickly. There would be no surplus. It is that the first year of all the exercise of Mr. Núñez Feijóo in which there is surplus is 2018; then, there would have been no surplus for nine years with Mr. Feijóo. It's the first year, the first year. Second, IVE. You know perfectly well that the IVE problem caused you a disposition of Mr. Montoro and that you have shut up, you have completely shut up and you haven't said anything about it. Perfectly, you know that perfectly. So we have to have a little more prudence and modesty, which comes well, especially in these times when, at last, the People's Party in Spain has sixty-six Members; it's best to be a little bit more modest, simply; we all have to be, too. Look, the options that we have before us -- not to be mistaken -- are to accept a change of EUR 40 million from investment or capital transactions to other shares or what we have before us is that you support our amendment to the whole, or the amendment to the whole of the BNG, and to supplement those EUR 40 million and four million with sixty or eighty-eight million more. So if you really want to change your budget profile, reinforce current health spending and spending on health investment more than they propose, they vote in favour of our amendments, one or another. Look, I'm not going to hide. If they vote in favour of BNG, I think it's good too. I'd rather they vote for us, because it seems more adjusted to us, but it's all right. They vote for one of them. Those are the options. That's what you have to decide. Anyway, I'm not going to answer any more things. The 2011 law clearly supports it. I've said it before: we're in favour of the architecture of budgetary stability. What's going on? That at that time we also tabled some amendments that were not taken into account, for example, by the exception of the deficit consideration of investment operations, as happens for example in federal countries as strange as the United States, where exactly this is done. Well, it could be done. They said not at that time. Nevertheless, we voted in favour. But look, there are things, instead, that I don't like. I mean, since I have a shift, I don't like you referring to the other opposition groups as peers. No, because they have their own position and they defend it perfectly and, indeed, we then arrive at agreements. What would happen if I talked about the groups that are not represented in this Parliament that have had good results in these elections and said that they are preferred members of the People's Party? What, when the marriage matrioska is opened, does Rivera appear, and when the Rivera opens, does Abascal appear? Well, I'd be putting a strain on the debate that doesn't... well, it's important. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, Mr. Feijóo has been talking about these things for a few days, says that Abascal is a puppet of Sánchez, but it turns out that what he did for certain foundations was Mrs. Aguirre, and Mrs. Aguirre herself says that Mr. Casado is kicking Abascal in his ass. And if you want, let's just keep going. [[Murmurs.]] You introduced him, Mr. Tellado, but it's all right, it's all right. I know Mr. Núñez Feijóo is very willing to rectify. It used to be the most voted list, now we haven't talked about any of this. Well, it's an interesting rectification, but I should do another for everybody's tranquility. If you don't want to know anything about the far right -- I don't know, as married recently, -- you have to tell us that your vows won't be told to turn the people of the People's Party into mayors in Galicia. That's what I would have credibility, and if not, all the rest is to tell us that, if necessary, Vox we use it, and if it's not necessary, we say it's the extreme right. Of course, this isn't good for me, it's not good for me. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] So, let's go back, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u39	Quiet, please. Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u40	No, this is just to explain what happens when you introduce themes that have nothing to do with matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u41	Peace, silence, silence, please. Silence! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada and Mr. Pazos, silence. They're both always!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u42	Well, that's from Castelao, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u43	They're going to pass on to Parliament's history, the two of them forever. A little bit of... [[Laughter]] We are finishing this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u44	Well, from Castelao they were "The Two of the Forever."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u45	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u46	I'm done. I think now what we have to decide is whether you authorize a credit supplement of forty-eight million, which we're not going to prevent, we're not going to stand against, or whether you want to add to this sixty-eight-eight million, with which you would further strengthen your message. That's the decision we're going to make. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u47	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close for the government, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u48	Thank you again, Mr. President. The truth is, I wasn't going to intervene, but I think I'll at least try to explain the logic that motivates us to talk about this credit supplement law today. First of all, to bring a credit supplement law, I add that, as such law, we must speak here in Parliament, but, in essence, this is the result of the accountancy supervitae of 2018 of one hundred and twenty-five million euros that this community has earned above, Mr. Lago, of what they were planning, and not by undermining this government of negritude which has so often been held in this House. Not at all. What is it, this government has always been responsible, for the ten years it's been here, and that's why economic orthodoxy is sometimes not resonated with intelligence. I understand that many people cost them, but even within economic orthodoxy there is intelligence, and even what more clear act of transparency than bringing a part of the solution coming to this Parliament? There's nothing to hide and we expose what we want to do. Because there are some needs, some needs that are already ahead of you, Mrs. Presas, that are perfectly planned. Perfectly, because I understand that you have to release certain messages to the media, but there is only now and then when you know what we approved in the board of assembly, and when you remember, for example, in three years, a plan of decentration, adequacy and energy efficiency, above all energy efficiency, in schools, I understand that since the block quite shocks certain issues that you have to say. As well as in the health field. In the field of health, I can't agree with this when we wear electoralism, and I really look at the news that someone is trying to put on, even a little bit of a brake, because I don't have to know much more than to read what you put into your whole amendment, Mrs. Presas, when they put on 90 million -- or ninety-three, I think -- for health care and pay from group A. I don't know if that's what we're dividing by the salaries that Group A has, which are doctors -- I suppose that's why when we talk about electoralism we all have less the Block; I don't think, I think they're going to freak out, they're so thrown into infinity that they're getting out of the brake-- they'd give us all year round to about 1,403 doctors. There's a trick to talk about the metric sense the Block is talking about, which is far from any normal parameters! because I don't think there are 1,403 doctors throughout Europe. [[Applause]] What would be more worrisome, is that it was in the middle of the year, because we're in the month of May. It would be half a year, because then we would be talking about 2,413, which, then, is true that we would have to reach about the Urais. I believe — and here it was criticized — that Law 2/2011, our law, perfectly, was a great compliment at a very specific time. But let me paraphrase Darwin when he says about the evolution of species: nothing is law, the laws are all positive constructions that we give in each Parliament, which we have the ability to do. The situation is changing, the situation that the Kingdom of Spain had at that time, and Galicia, of course, was one and now is gradually evolving. I think performance is what is causing us to get out of the crisis in terms of income and GDP, but also in terms of employment. It is rare that in this Parliament, in which so many things are spoken, there is no mention of what was the EPA in the last quarter or what the latest data of registered unemployment and all the accumulated evolution we have, knowing that there is much to improve, and with that humility that Mr. Leicega also asked for. So here is a finding — to see if I explain the system and more or less the one who wants to understand me, that this is another question, because it takes it — which is: accountant surplus 2018, one hundred and twenty-five million euros. And there's a finding: surplus-debted half-payment period, the best in Spain. The spending rule, which is to be given — I don't know why it is to give — would have to ask Mrs Montero. By the way, Mr. Leicega, the first person within the Tax and Financial Policy Council referred to the issue of the EVI was the current minister himself when she was counsellor of Andalusia. The second person — and so on in the minutes of the Tax Policy Council — is this adviser who speaks to them. So it's not true what you're saying here, and indeed there was a very clear position, and then other community councillors on that subject. Things are clear. As is also clear from the fact that we are having our deliveries on account, and we are talking about what we are talking about in this Parliament, the Autonomous Community of Galicia does not forget the eighty-five million euros that the central government owes to us last year's budget for compliance. And if we answered that same question, we would have eighty-five plus eighty-five and five million as we did in 2018, which would cover up many of the requests even quantitative ones that we just talked about. So this government, in the face of the banners — you have to say very clearly — that it has the central government in this matter, had to make a legal, agile decision and, above all, where we are preserving the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Community. You just have to have some economic expertise from that orthodoxy that I ask you when we read the various articles, as may be the 18th of our Sustainability Law, but also Article 37 of our Budget Law. If we do, we conclude that we can amortize with this surplus debt, in this case of SPI and Xestur and at the same time be generating spending capacity, spending capacity that up to this point we didn't have in these investments. But in addition, this gives us sixty-five million euros this year, from now on; sixty-five million euros from 2020, which is one hundred thirty, and is even consolidated for the whole budget, which will be in 2021 and 2022. So what we're adopting right now, amortizing debt and cutting down two tenths of the debt that the Autonomous Community has, is giving future to generations that will come after us. And above all, we had to be smart when we didn't condition the results these years. [[Murmurs.]] That's why the vast majority of the sixty-five million euros this year are sustainable financial investments. But not everything is cement that we have to do right. And there comes the whole reform of primary care. In the reform of primary care, especially in what we are talking about here, at this time, since we are going to enter the summer period, in substitution periods, with the subject of primary care medical facilities we have, also with nursing, it is illogical to think that it will be spent right now, this year, more than 1.5 million euros. That does not mean that the plan that is planned and talked to the unions, which has begun to profile — and we are already talking about more than three hundred squares — will mean between 2019 and 2020 — to see whether they understand that credit will also exist for 2020 and beyond — more than twenty million euros, twenty-two million euros, which is close to the figure that Mr Leicega was talking about a moment ago. So don't wear out. And don't forget one thing: there are 17 million euros of spending capacity — which is not in this Parliament or in this law — every year that is in the Galaga Infrastructure Agency directly, or through the Public Investment Society, which will now not have to be financed through debt, but through orders or own funds, which is why it is the choice. So, without forgetting what we understand, it is up to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which are these famous eighty-five million euros, which we believe we need to multiply by two -- and good places to cover -- which we bring here today, being very important, does not exhaust the scheme of use of the surplus that this community has achieved for the right performance, and so we are doing it. I'm not talking about a solution that's Columbus' egg. I understand that it's often a bit difficult to explain, but if we all pull out a little bit of the mind, I think we do. I humbly ask that all groups in the House should say yes, because even when I read amendments from the amending groups, in three quarters of the issues that we would be considering, we would agree; on the other hand, it is a purely evolutionary issue. So, and already to finish my intervention, I think we're faced with a law that's the most important part of the global solution we're giving, but not the only one. It's a good law for Galicia because, as I said before, it's a good instrument, and it's agile, to strengthen the basic needs of the Greeks. And the rest of us are going to talk a little bit about it, because, indeed, everything changes and the species evolve; so are we. We hope the opposition will be in the same tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u49	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with the legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u50	An amendment has been tabled in full by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. For the presentation of the bill, you have the word of the Health Counselor, Mr. Jesus Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u51	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It's always good to start a health law with Darwin's name. I think it's right on the part of the Fairy Counsellor. I appear today before this House to present the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill. The new Law on Pharmaceutical Management of Galicia replaces the current Law 5/1999, of 21 May, of pharmaceutical management, and in part, and in essence also of the regulation contained in Law 14/1986, General Health and Law 16/1997, of the regulation of services of pharmacy offices, as well as of the recast text of the Law on the Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Medicinal Products approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, while it is basic enforcement regulations. Despite the various partial changes made in Law 55/1999, of pharmaceutical management, and, over 20 years since then, there is a need for a new comprehensive regulation of pharmaceutical care, more consistent with the present, which allows more effective coping and solution to the current needs and demands of both professionals and users. This new law takes into account as a starting point the premise of setting up pharmacy offices as health establishments of public interest, subject to health planning. It is carried out from a broad, inclusive perspective of the different sectors that carry out the supply of medicines and health products, to offer full pharmaceutical care to the citizen, with coordinated action of the different levels: the loan through the attached pharmacy and boutique offices, the loan at primary and hospital level, as well as at the social welfare centres and other health facilities, services and facilities. The law also requires specific measures aimed at ensuring pharmaceutical care in rural areas, which are not limited to the establishment of an own population module or the possibility of home delivery of medicines. This law seeks to take another step, by laying down other measures that seek to provide efficient and quality pharmaceutical care to the rural population, such as forecasting the installation and opening of attached stores in those cases where, if the installation of a pharmacy office is not possible because the requirements are not legally established, there are certain circumstances, such as the removal or difficult communication with the nearest pharmacy office, which determine the need for the installation of the pharmacy to facilitate access to these populations to pharmaceutical care. This situation is relatively common in our community in isolated or high-mounted rural areas, for example. The normative text introduces another important novelty in this regard: the possibility of being on the pharmaceutical map itself, indicating those pharmacy offices that will have linked an attached shop in cases of difficult accessibility areas. Even so, in the area where the pharmacy office is located, especially in those nuclei where only the established pharmacy office exists, the possibility of restricting it is immeasurable when a serious harm is appreciated. Then I'll stop at the main news and highlights of this law. With regard to household pharmaceutical care or special alleged delivery of medicines and health products, for the first time in our autonomic legislation, the possibility is introduced that, exceptionally, in the case of users who reside in isolated rural areas or are dependent, with specific care needs, the provision of medicines and health products may be made by a pharmacy office located in the residential pharmaceutical area, or, by the user's express decision, by another pharmacy office in the same area of the Continuous Care Point. It also incorporates the possibility that, in accordance with the procedure and the regulatory conditions laid down in its case, an informed delivery may be made at the place of residence of the user of those medicinal products whose dispensation is restricted only to the hospital area, in accordance with the applicable state rules, where they may collaborate with the pharmacy offices in the area. Point two to highlight says that a pharmacist can only be owner or owner, or co-owner, of a single pharmacy office. In case of co-titlement, participation rates in the pharmacy office may not be less than 10%. This percentage shall be established taking into account the assumptions detected in daily practice, where part of the office's ownership is intended to be acquired or transmitted to minimum or residual accounts, which would be at the expense of the required effectiveness and efficiency in the provision of the pharmaceutical service. It also requires the physical presence of the incumbent pharmacist or the office of pharmacist in a regular manner during public attention hours to perform the functions assigned to them by law, because it is the ultimate responsibility of the pharmaceutical provider and that it is carried out with due assurances, so that the collaboration of assistant, technical or auxiliary staff and other staff does not excuse the existence of that responsibility. It is therefore due to its presence during this period of time in which the person entitled or entitled to exercise as responsible for the exemption of medicinal products and health products to citizenship, ensuring compliance with the guidelines established by the optional staff and cooperating in the follow-up of the treatment, thus contributing to its effectiveness and safety. The third point I wanted to highlight is the replacement of the regime of the current authorization by the communication, for the determination of the hours and guard services of the pharmacy offices, with the participation of the official schools of pharmacists in each province. Fourth. Modification of the calculation of the pharmacies offices required by population module, maintaining the current classification established by Law 5/1999 of 21 May. This change is due to the need to avoid the dysfunctions detected by the previous law, thus ensuring a more responsive pharmaceutical planning to the real needs of the population, derived from the criteria of demographic density, geographic characteristics and population dispersion, thus ensuring the accessibility of the pharmaceutical supply especially in rural areas. The calculation of the necessary pharmacies offices by population module in each area is changed, among other things. Thus, the population remains when the result of the application of the module corresponding to each area is more than 1,500 inhabitants, only a new pharmacy office will be examined when a net population increase is observed in the last five years. So, for example, in rural areas that, like Galicia, enjoy a low population density, this new rule guarantees a sufficient number of pharmacists according to their geographical characteristics, as well as the accessibility of the population to the pharmaceutical supply. In certain exceptional assumptions of single-office pharmaceutical areas, when there are reasons of general interest to justify them, the limit of 250 metres for the installation of new pharmacy offices is excluded from other or health care centres. The establishment of adjudication procedures for new axile and faster pharmacies offices also modifies the new law. The initiation of public invitations to tender for the adjudication of new pharmacies shall be carried out by the competent health counsellor only on his own initiative. The call for a pre-transfer invitation to tender shall be introduced, to which the pharmacists holding a pharmacy or co-holder may compete in a pharmacy office established in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. A later invitation to tender for the provision of vacant pharmacies offices resulting from the transfer contest, which will also include the new pharmacies offices collected on the pharmaceutical map in a covert, such as those that were released by transfer of the holder, as long as the reasons for public interest that advised him and continue to be necessary in view of the population modules provided for in this new law. This procedure may compete with all pharmacists who at the time of the end of the application deadline set in the invitation to tender are either holders or co-holders of a pharmacy office and have not been transmitted in the 10 years preceding that date. To reserve participation in the pre-transfer contest to those people who are already holders of a pharmacy, try to make it easier for those who may have been in a more difficult situation because of the current location of their pharmacy office and who have a five-year professional experience, to have access to another more convenient location. The ten-year limit is due to the need to promote strategic pharmaceutical planning according to the real needs of the population, to contribute to the stabilization of the service and to avoid excessive rotation of pharmaceutical professionals and the acquisition of purely speculative pharmacy offices. Point 6 that I wanted to highlight is the requirement to establish guarantees for participation in the public invitation to tender for the award of new pharmacy offices, as determined by law; the disappearance of the alleged expiry of administrative authorisations by the age of seventy years of the holder or the need for authorization to appoint a resident pharmacist in retirement cases. In these cases, if you continue to perform this function, you will be required to hire additional attached pharmacists, as determined by regulation. This obligation seeks to promote not only the provision of the service with the highest quality assurances but also to serve as an incentive for the creation and promotion of employment. There will also be a reduction in the duration of the region, which generally passes from the current five years to the present two years, except in certain cases. The adaptation of the scheme for the transmission of pharmacy offices already introduced in the amendment made by Law 9/2017, of tax and administrative measures, by Act 5/1999 of 21 May 1999, in which the period required to carry out the transmission of pharmacies offices assisted by the procedure of public tenders from three to fifteen years, counted from the opening of the pharmacy office to the public, except in the taxed cases provided for by the law, between which the alleged retirement of a pharmaceutical holder is not now collected. I would also like to highlight the creation of the shops annexed to the new law as a rural support measure. It is thus difficult to find the possibility that in the pharmaceutical map, together with the new pharmacy office, the installation of an attached shop linked to it in those special areas of difficulty. The law also provides for the authorization of an attached pharmacy to provide pharmaceutical care in cases where a transfer permit, or in a closed situation, has been granted which makes access to the pharmaceutical care of the population difficult. With regard to the pharmaceutical care provided at primary care level and in hospitals, social assistance centres or other health services and facilities, the functions of the pharmacy units and services are updated and those corresponding to the radiopharmacy units are collected in accordance with the state rules of application. It also presents the establishment of a new regime of incompatibilities applicable to pharmaceutical professionals and a new regulation of the sanctioning regime, which includes a comprehensive relationship of the infringements and the corresponding sanctions; some of them, as a novelty, taking into account certain illegal practices detected, and, in any case, the safety of those established in the revised text of the Law on the Guarantees of the Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Health Products approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015 of 24 July. The new law also establishes a number of limitations, in case other activities are carried out in the pharmacy offices other than the supply of medicines and health products themselves. This limitation would be provided insofar as it is intended to ensure that the person holding the office of a pharmacy has, as far as possible, knowledge of all of them, in order to control and preserve the work done in each area, still counting on the specific staff. The law also expressly prohibits any form of advertising and promotional activity of pharmacy offices, except where they are legally determined, as well as the organization of events or activities and the use of tools that may involve the promotion of the pharmacy office, with the consequent type of conduct in case of occurrence. This is about ensuring not only the performance of the activity on an equal footing from a competitive point of view but also ensuring that the right to free choice of the pharmacy office is performed without external interference that can condition its service. Ladies and gentlemen, with this new law, we have updated the Pharmaceutical Management Act to adapt it to the many social changes that have occurred since its adoption two decades ago. This law also has a twofold objective of collecting the regulatory news that has been introduced since 1999, as are, on the one hand, the incorporation of the Law on the Guarantees and the Rational Use of Medicines, and, on the other hand, effectively solving the current needs and demands of pharmaceutical users and professionals. But ultimately, what we want to improve is pharmaceutical care for your users, so we include home care for the first time, service that will be reserved only to users who cannot go to the pharmacy. We also want to facilitate pharmaceutical assistance in rural areas, and that is why we will create the attached shops in those areas of difficult accessibility. This law is born of consensus and it has collaborated with the professional colleges of pharmacists and many collectives of professionals. We therefore thank all of them, as well as the General Secretariat of the Health Council, for the work done all these months; a work which will now be referred to — or we hope — by this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u52	Thank you, Counselor. Before we start the debate, we're going to greet the 5th primary students from Gondomar Street Center. By the way, Chano Piñeiro was a pharmacist too, or that this was a coincidence. We also greet the visitors who accompany us today in the rostrum. Let's start with the debate. The defence of the amendment to the totality of return and position on the draft law of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Almuña. Today we have come to this whole debate of the law and we have tabled a whole amendment from our group, not because we do not agree with any aspect of what is presented, there are some aspects that must be discussed and which we can certainly agree with, and it is also noted that you have taken note of the problem that your bill generated in the autonomous community of Madrid, which was initially quite similar and caused a number of difficulties in relation to professional competences which are still known and which have transcended the media. We are pleased that you have, at least, taken note of and not generated a conflict with professional competences and with regard to activities within the shops in our country. However, Mr Almuña, despite the fact that we can give that debate and there are issues that we would like to see being updated as an opportunity in relation to the obsolescence of the previous rule, we also understand that the rule remains short in relation to what the Health Council should understand, that is, the highest responsibility for a country's health, about access to health rights and, in particular, what it also includes in Article 10 of the General Health Act, which is access to pharmaceutical treatments. There is a problem in our country that is not addressed in the norm — I am going to mention — and other elements that are of concern to our group when it comes to understanding that a rule cannot simply remain in the internal regulation of primary pharmacies, our country's shops, its transmission and the relationship in the case of residences, which you have not referred to, but rather that access to the right to be able to have pharmacy treatments, which should be understood by a pharmacy law in a country, must go much further, and must be much more ambitious in relation to the rights of citizenship and strategic planning that you have for a country to have a right or have access to such an important element and that it is producing such difficulties — if allowed — in the field of health, not in relation to primary care pharmacies, but rather to what has to do with access to the very drugs and the situation we have in Spain, and not only in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. First of all, it is an element that remains outside this debate and that seems crucial to us, which is access to the pharmaceutical treatments itself. We do not approach a reality that is evident, that already existed, surely before, but which has increased significantly since the entry into force of Royal Decree 16/2012, and we have certainly had a debate with pharmaceutical schools and we have already commented on that question because it seems to us an element that was easily unattainable in this norm, but that we do not want to address at any time. According to the CIS household survey, there is a problem with regard to the failure of therapeutic adherence related to socio-economic conditions in our country. According to the CIS survey, around 100,000 people in Galicia do not withdraw their treatments due to lack of economic capacity to do so. We understand that if the law covers everything that has to do with the pharmacy in the country, and not only what it has to do with the shops in our country, it should also respect the right to access to pharmaceutical treatments — as I say — both in article 43 of the Spanish Constitution and in article 10 of the Spanish General Health Act. This issue is not addressed and we have a serious problem in this regard, which we have already discussed. It is clear that our group defends the derogation from that Royal Decree 16/2012, which must be repealed, even if not in this Parliament, and which has a direct impact on access to the health rights of men and women in Galicia, and in this case there is not even a timid intention to establish control. You know, and if I don't move it here, that on many occasions we have asked for data on therapeutic adherence to economic capacity in Commission 5a, the Health Committee, and that data is not provided. There's a constant refusal to acknowledge that there are people who can't access treatment because they don't have money, and that's to a reality in this country, that's a reality that should be addressed in a law where the Government of the Union exposes and proposes all its drug proposals, which are not just what is related to -- say -- the provision of drugs directly on the street. There's an important element, therefore, that you don't want to attend to socio-economic level and that for us it violates or doesn't, in some way, have the right that all Welsh people have to health. There are other elements that we would like to see to be able to debate in relation to the public system. You look at an element in the text that you propose in relation to services or pharmaceutical care in primary care structures. There are a number of articles, a specific chapter within the norm, chapter III, in which we will certainly have a question to debate, but we understand that we should go much further. You know that we defend the need to consider in a way it would be possible to have public pharmacies: 100 per cent. We understand that those who are now doing very important work in the public sector, so they have a specific consideration despite being private businesses. But we understand that it should also be related to that proposal that you make of pharmaceutical care in primary care structures, which has to do with pharmacy offices within the public system. But it is not even possible to open up this possibility of having a debate on how they should articulate. We believe that they are very linked also to the care that is given within the health centers and in primary care. In fact, an important element, which we also discussed on that occasion with the pharmacies schools, was what we also had to see about how the pharmaceutical supply or the work done by pharmacists and pharmacists in this country was linked to the public health system. It's not something that has come true, and we understand that it would be much easier to do if it had been done through a public pharmacy, because we understand that it should be integrated into the multidisciplinary health care systems. This is an element of what is not even possible to debate, so we understand that the law in that sense is not excessively ambitious. Just as we understand that in the text that you are proposing, there are also some elements that make it difficult to access business, private shops, people who do not have a possibility of transfer, who do not enjoy any title because you have announced here a novelty in relation to the previous transfer contest that we will have the opportunity to discuss. We also addressed pharmacists and pharmacists who are not holders moving that this produces a series of injuries compared to the time they can access the ownership of a business. Furthermore, a central element for us, and which we have discussed on several occasions in this Parliament's Committee on Health, is the situation that we have to access to drugs. In addition to what he moved to him on socio-economic issues, that is, those social determinants of health that also affect the possibility of access to the pharmacy, there is a problem related to the access of the system itself to drugs. It's obvious that it goes beyond this board, it's a problem that has the overallity of the National Health System as regards access to drugs, but we understand that by a serious government, an autonomous government, it should be addressed. We recently moved a question to Commission 5a, which was answered by the manager of Sergas, in relation to the depletion of drugs that was being produced in public pharmacies. On the other hand, it has been recognized that it is not within its objectives that the constitution of any type of laboratory of R & D+i, both for research into new drugs and for the production of maxistral formulas or what it has to do with those drugs that no longer have a patent. It was said to be feasible. That it was complicated, obviously, and we understand its complexity, but that it wasn't within the goals of the People's Party's Government. And it was said that, indeed, it could be so because this rule also regulates, among other things, the production of radiopharmaceuticals, and in that sense, by the Galician Health Service it was recognized that there was a possibility. We want this issue to be discussed, among other things, because, since we are in this Parliament, I myself in the previous legislation, each year we raise this question of the need to address the adequacy or supply of drugs in the system. We know it's a complex issue and it would also require an important investment. And we know, in addition, that it would be much easier to do it on a larger scale. In fact, some people also defend the need for this issue to be addressed from the point of view of the Ministry of Health, and there are elements that have been defended and structures that are available to do so at ministerial level as the Military Defense Pharmacy Center, which is not the issue of this parliament, of course, but we have raised that it would be an important germ. Clearly, it doesn't solve the global problem that we have in the supply of drugs, but it's a question that's on the table and it's not addressed in one sense or another. I mean, don't miss the proposal made in this bill regarding the Galician pharmacy. That is why it seems to us that, frankly, if the debate is cut short in relation to a situation that is not only important as a health element, it is a very sensitive part of the budgets of the Health Council and, in general, of all the health councils of the different autonomous communities, and would therefore deserve a debate. The first time I defended this amendment in an economic commission, in the budgetary debate, less than the Members of the People's Party laughed at me, as the possibility of producing a capital formula or a generic formula, something that in the case of the capital formulas is also done in the Greek hospitals and which is feasible. Obviously, it would be on a scale that would require a large investment and a planning not in the short term, but in the medium and long term. But there is no possibility, and we have a situation that is not being addressed. I have to remind you of the situation that some professionals are also moving, of concern about what is involved in the depletion of some drugs that don't have a replacement. Many of them have it, we discussed it in the committee at that time, but there are others who do not, and therefore should at least be able to discuss this matter. There are other elements in the norm that seem to us that in the 21st century and with the set of rights that are contained not only in autonomic regulations, but in state health regulations, should not be contained in a norm. I am referring, in particular, to the fact that the permanence of conscientious objection in this law is not understandable, because this same rule defines pharmacies, although they are private, as something of public interest, of general interest, and therefore important when accessing health rights. It is not that we have news of excessive different cases in the problem of access to drugs, but there are some very specific ones, which are circumscribed on many occasions — I think we can all know them — essentially access to contraceptives, both of emergency and normal and common contraceptives, of daily use, such as the pill, or even monthly, as it can be a vaginal ring. Derived from morals, which is not peculiar to the planning of a public health system, we have difficulties in many villages and municipalities, even in cities, so that women in this case, but I understand that also everyone who can go to buy these products, can access that which is a right, and that it is not only covered by the General Health Act, but also by the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act. I mean this element in question because that's what most complaints usually generate, or at least is the most commonly known. By maintaining conscientious objection to this rule, access to a right should be prevented from being guaranteed in a normal way. We believe that an individual right, in this case the holders of the pharmacy, or the pharmacists or pharmacists, can never be above the collective rights that are, of course, protected by the various rules that govern this country. And we have a problem with that, which is not the central problem in relation to this norm, it's a problem that's there and it's reproduced. I live in a city, and I know several shops that make it difficult to access these treatments, and that would therefore generate a difficulty. In fact, we have been discussing in this Parliament a rule that has nothing to do with it, which is the enforcement of the law of the terminally ill, and in which the object of debate was the elimination of the conscientious objection of that text. We understand that it does not exist, and we also defend it when we debate here on some occasion the rules relating to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy within public health. Access to a right should not be allowed to be obstructed by an objection of conscience, which is an individual right, about a collective right to access a drug. There are other elements — after which I will have another minor turn— which are within the norm and which we will be able to discuss surely if it is dealt with, but we are presenting this amendment as a whole because it seems to us that the title of the rule does not refer only to what it has to do with primary care pharmacies and what it has to do with the socio-health care, what you have not referred to and what we will certainly be able to talk about, but rather to the Galician Pharmacy Act, and we believe that there is a fairly large gap in compliance with the access — contained as a right in the General Health Law — to the drugs itself in our country, in what it has to do with the provision, and therefore should be a central element of the sovereignty of a country and the Government should consider itself the problem that is being faced in the pharmacy in this country in relation to the state as a whole, and, secondly, the right of the Welsh and the Greeks to access to treatment. I'll leave it for now, we'll continue later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u55	Good morning. In the face of a legislative text, the first question we have to ask ourselves is that contributions make the new law about what is already regulated, it's a question that seems basic to us from BNG: that substantial elements change or that substantial elements introduce that justify the presentation of a new legislative text. In fact, this law is part of that legal framework of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, so the recast text of the Law on the Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicine and Health Products, and in Law 16/1997, on the regulation of the services of pharmacy offices, therefore, a Spanish legislative framework which leaves very little margin for own regulations in many respects. But neither — either so said by step — was the intention of the Government of the People's Party to give any battle to change this situation of lack of competence and claim greater capacity to regulate our own situations in Galicia, which, of course, are not the same as elsewhere. It was a first consideration I wanted to make. This law replaces Law 5/1999, a law which has already been amended in 2005, 2006, 2011 and 2017, and practically all referred to pharmacy offices as transmissions, age limitation of pharmacists, shifts of guard, i.e. virtually exclusive issues related to pharmacy offices. It establishes this law, in its explanatory statement, that the changes were insufficient, all the ones I have just referred to, so it is necessary to comply with a new comprehensive regulation of pharmaceutical care. I have to start by saying that I do not really see that there is an integral regulation of pharmaceutical care, but that, as the advisor has just said, there is an update on certain aspects, essentially, related to pharmacy offices. It also justifies, in its explanatory statement, a new law on the need for the adaptation of Greek legislation to state legislation, after the 1999 Act, and says that this state regulation is obliged to comply, in particular the Law on the Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products in Health Products, and the Royal Legislative Decree of 24 July 2015, with which, the next question that surprises us is that in a legislative decree of obligation four years ago, they wait four years to present a legislative text that, as stated in the explanatory statement, must be done because it is due to comply with the framework. Actually, we're also getting a little bit of this justification. The truth is, the vast majority of what this law regulates, of which we are debating, is that it refers to pharmacy offices, and this means that out of the eighty articles that have the law, the regulation of primary care only refers to three articles, and in the previous 1999 he devoted four, he dropped one. I mean, just three scalable articles. And the advisor said that it was about updating functions, almost as far as primary care in the public health system is concerned. The regulation of pharmaceutical care in hospitals, social welfare centers and other health facilities and services, textually, as it appears in the law, because also five escalated articles, and in the previous six were awarded. Most of this law is intended for the regulation of pharmacy offices, it corroborates what I am saying, and it also corroborates the information itself, both in the media and the information issued by the Board itself, where the bill has been passed, where it devotes the vast majority of information to aspects of pharmacy offices, and for example, as regards the regulation of the pharmaceutical situation in primary, hospital or social centres, three scales of extensive public communication. This is confirmed by the fact that the clear intention of this law is the almost exclusive regulation of pharmacy offices, that I'm not going to say that it's wrong or that it wasn't necessary, what I'm saying is that it's not a law that fully addresses pharmaceutical care in Galicia. We are also called attention that progress towards socio-health care is nowhere, so much so that this term is not even used. The term socio-health care is not used, social care is maintained in this text, and it is surprising that Sergas himself published the Galician Health Care Framework Plan in 2013, where he established that interventions developed in the field of socio-health policy should allow to work in an integrated way with those citizens who feel the social and health needs. So, the term "health care" should not only be restricted to resources and services, but also to those actions that could offer synergies to the whole set of people who need that kind of attention. This is another one of those plans that was left on wet paper, and in which the Government of the People's Party has not advanced, and one example is that in this law it is not even contemplated the term. I'm no longer saying that actions are being carried out, or that they are moving towards an integral socio-health care of many segments of the population that can also be in residential or non-residential, but that they need this attention from a global, social and health point of view. Ingenuously, at the BNG we thought it was the way he was walking, but we see that in this text, I say, not even considering the term. We are concerned that in this law, from our point of view, it is modernizing and innovating little. There is a very focused update on pharmacy offices, and in some respects aims to expand the competences of pharmacy offices and pharmacists and pharmaceuticals to the detriment of or in competition with the public health system. Established in certain articles that will compete with collaboration in individualized pharmacotherapeutic follow-up, detect failures in therapeutic supplements, collaborate in the rational use of medicines and health products, collaborate in the protection and promotion of health programs and drug addictions, or home benefit. It is also exceptionally established that users residing in isolated rural areas, or dependent ones, with specific characteristics and care needs in which they compete for loss of functional autonomy, specific care needs and care for chronic illness, medicines and health products may be dispensed by pharmaceuticals or pharmaceuticals. Of course, it seems clear that there is an intention to expand these competences, and on the other hand, we are called attention that during these ten years of the People's Party's Government has been reducing the capacity for primary public care as regards budgets. I have to remember the 2,000 million euros less, accumulated, destined for primary care in the period 2009-2019. It's been reduced by staff, as much as you don't want to facilitate data, and you don't want to have transparency about what the relationship of professionals working in primary care is. There is less decision-making capacity, less resolution capacity, the agencies have been eliminated, i.e. they are reducing the capacity of primary care, the capacity needed to meet that new paradigm, which is a population with more chronic, older problems, i.e. all those needs that make it impossible for health services to pay such attention, even at home, and if you open the door for private pharmacy offices to access the homes of people who use the public system. Then we are concerned about the professional competence to care for patients, which is even the comparative legislation where this occurs, and the end of this opening of doors. It does not set out how the information will be coordinated between pharmacy professionals and health services. It sets out a whole series of additional issues that will be possible from the pharmacy offices, but it does not establish what the coordination mechanism is going to be, whether it's going to be shaped, where it's going to be, or who's going to be responsible for applying, coordinating, acting and making the necessary changes. We are also concerned that pharmacy offices provide their services in a regime of freedom and time flexibility. It already existed, but this question has been maintained, and they worry about them because it is more liberalisation of the sector and also the path of trade liberalization. And it seems to us a paradox in the sense that I used to say, that in primary care, the possibilities of adaptation to the needs of the population are being cut off, consultations are being closed in health centres in the afternoon, in a special way, the consultations on pediatrics in the afternoon, the primary care capacity is being eliminated to meet the demands of the population and to adapt to their needs, and yet, on the other hand, the possibility of pharmacy offices to adapt to the needs of the population is being broadened. We are concerned that there is such a double way of understanding, that in the public it is not necessary to adapt to these needs of the population, and it turns out that in private people if they give themselves facilities to adapt to the needs of their citizens. We are also concerned that the planning of pharmacy offices should ensure appropriate, timely and efficient attention, rather than that it should be carried out on the basis of the pharmaceutical care of the population and equity. It seems to us that adapting to appropriate, timely and efficient care is that we will not take into account the need that all the population have the right to equitable access to pharmacy offices and that other parameters will be taken into account, because pharmacy offices have a peculiar feature: they are health establishments that have the condition of services of public interest, but they are private property, and they provide drugs, drugs, which are prescribed in the public health system; a feature that requires special care in regulation. Theirs is a position where the public interest, the service they provide and the profit of a private business, of course, is to be married, but from the public we have to look at why public interest is the main occupation. Pharmacy offices are the last link to the healthcare chain, where the patients, after they come to the public health services where they are prescribed, a certain pharmacological care, have to go to these private-owned establishments, a point in the chain of the health system where the economic transaction is direct. You don't know what a direct economic transaction is between a private person, what's in front of the pharmacy office, and the particular one that's the patient. I insist, an economic transaction within the health system that makes regulation especially have to be careful, without leaving aspects of limbo and ambiguity, as if we consider there are many aspects that remain in this regulation. We are also concerned about the total prevalence of pharmacists and pharmacists holding new pharmacy offices, and we are also concerned that there is no reference to lack of adherence, difficulties in access to medicines from vulnerable groups, especially since the enactment of Royal Decree 16/2012; lack of adherence and capacity to buy certain medicines due to lack of economic capacity, and especially those excluded from the service portfolio, which for particularly sensitive groups are fundamental. We can talk about probes, mucolytics or other types of benefits removed from the service portfolio by this decree enacted by the People's Party. We are concerned about the difficulty of access to pharmaceutical treatments, and we are also concerned that the ESC itself, in its report, warns that the law does not guarantee attention in rural areas. I said before that fundamental elements are based on criteria that are not the priority of equitable access. We are also concerned that conscientious objection is maintained. Of course, at the BNG we believe that in a service of public interest the objection of conscience is not met when prescribing drugs that are legal and that any citizen is entitled to access at any pharmacy office, and what can't be, under any concept, is that the person who owns the establishment determines what is dispensed and what is not dispensed, because I insist that he has this duality: it is a service of public interest even if it is prescribed in a private establishment, but via public administrative concession, with which, of course, we don't think it should be maintained. So the conclusion we come to is that this law is a missed opportunity to fully regulate the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks in the pharmaceutical field. Full attention remains exclusively in the enunciation, in a logo, in the concrete formulation of articles of this law. A law in which public interest is not the determining element, a law in which a very important part can be said to be regulation and could be resolved without having to reach a new law. It regulates in a very detailed way surfaces, hygienic-sanitary conditions, computer equipment, issues that, of course, need to be regulated, but for which there was no need for the promulgation of a law. And a pharmacy law, in order to really adapt to the current reality, would have to have a much more comprehensive view not only of the reality of the pharmacy offices, but of the reality of the public health system, which we believe this law, of course, does not comply and is very partial.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u57	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The debate of this law has some issues that for us are of tremendous importance and allow us to have a rather critical assessment on some issues, not all of them. We do share some of the issues that are raised, but we want to deal with them with a certain constructive spirit. In a first assessment, for us it's a small law, it could have been a much more ambitious law. Certainly, it leaves many missed opportunities, so we believe that, given the weak spirit from the parliamentary point of view of this government, which participates little in parliamentary life, what we consider is that, having these opportunities, some options or some opportunities to regulate are sometimes allowed to pass. Since there is a law of relevance like this, there are some issues that should be more addressed. Secondly, besides being a child law, you have a perspective for us. Once you get to analyze it from a global point of view, it's a law that has almost more business character than health care. It is more focused on regulating tax and business issues than on ensuring the quality of care for the user, which is purely in the hands of pharmacy professionals, who, of course, are those who guarantee this quality, but the law is not considered from that point of view on some issues that should be. We were saying about this, and we were saying to the thread of this, that it is a missed opportunity because we could have faced far more relevant issues — some of them have already been mentioned here — such as the problem of deforestation, which has complex regulation and which is not easy, of course, but that it is necessary for a government to have some policies to deal with issues as problematic as that, and not only react at every moment saying, "It's the market, friends." There are issues that need to be tackled much more rigorously. Some issues such as the guarantee of access to medicines have been raised here, and they have to do with this difficulty that some users or users may have, as the CIS points out, with regard to the difficulty of access to medicines. The CIS — which is sometimes right about the CIS even though it is highly criticized — highlights some difficulties and some questions about access to medicines, and therefore it is also a good opportunity to deal with more ambition, and the law remains a little small and a little soft on some issues. It has not been explained, in addition, efficiently or especially its need. This is quite consistent with the activity of this government. Let's remember that the most important health law of Galicia, the Health Act, was reformed during this legislation without being announced, without having been proposed in an electoral program, without anyone mentioning it, and suddenly, as a tapadillo. In the case of this law that we are dealing with here today, about pharmaceutical management, some rum has always existed, but never by the Government. The truth is that there has never been a real debate on this need, but there was a debate on pharmacy in this plenary session and, above all, in the Health Committee, where there were issues in which we could move forward and propose them from different groups, there was no intention to explain and there was no intention to process it in this parliament or to open the debate to different groups. It's a matter that is legitimate by a government, especially when it has an absolute majority, but it's not a way of doing things, from our point of view. We think it would have been better, always better, if there was more participation. There are some issues that we believe have also been left out of this debate and have been separated, and we believe that they could intentionally separate themselves on some issue, now I explain. The concessional barrier, which is, of course, a question of debate, which is of concern and of interest — as it is said in a more explicit way — to pharmacy professionals, the pharmacy concessional barrier has been applied and the competition has been developed prior to this law. We remember — and each one can turn to the parliamentary hemerotheque and to the previous debates — how many difficulties and criticisms were encountered at the baroques used on other occasions, we plan ourselves if these criticisms and those prior evaluations would not be much more reasonable if one were against a barrier, a system. First to change, build a barrier according to law, build a complete package, say it somehow, and work on it. And no, we used a barrier that had previously been criticized, which for us demonstrates a certain incoherence in what corresponds to the regulation of this pharmaceutical space. It is true, by moving on to some issues which are positive, particularly positive, that there was some involvement with the sector, of participation, as could not be otherwise. We had meetings with many representatives of the various issues and we also shared that, of course, they and they participated in this law. It's true, but it's true in part. They took part and were consulted in the process, but many of these people complained — as they say in a way, although, obviously, of good manners and without malice — of having been consulted in the process but in a lot of questions, especially in those who were particularly concerned, not to be informed at the end of the final outcome, and that is to leave work half by half, is to leave work partly done but not at all done. Because if one takes as a reference a sector to collaborate and to participate, which we insist on, is good, has been well done and deserves our support in that sense, it would, of course, be more reasonable to consult the final outcome, although a government must have its own opinion and, of course, in view of discrepant positions within the sector, one must take some approach and cannot be content with everyone. But if it would be much more reasonable to explain some of the final positions, and it wasn't. We are going to facilitate the parliamentary process. We do not feel sufficiently identified by law as supporting it, but we are not going to be against its procedure, because we believe — as we said — that it was important to be able to deal with this process of regulatory development. We believe, yes, that there are issues within the law that are better and that deserve to be dealt with from a deeper point of view, and besides, as we say, they have not been addressed for now in parliamentary terms. We will therefore facilitate this process, but we have some discrepancies in some matters — especially in some very specific ones, not at all, it will be at another time, in another part of the debate — that if we want to put forward. First, and with concern, the so-called home dispensation. The counsellor started here as a first point. Of course, from our point of view, it's bad even to the name. It is true that there is a reality to be faced. There is even a reality that in a certain way exists, but it is not regulated, and there must be some protection, of course, and I certainly support the things that are being developed and that are positive for end-users, but it's not a home dispensation. We can't open the door, not even on the question of language, which we Amazonized the pharmacies. This is not a process of opening it up to become a distribution like a pants or pizzas. We can't open that space. Therefore, you must, of course, be careful. We think it's much more efficient to go deeper to law issues and, specifically, to be stricter in quality controls. That they are not only as a declaration of intent in the law, but rather more specific, the guarantee that the user receives from the process of the whole chain that passes through the product he receives. And we also really want to point out that this service somehow loses that capacity of pharmaceutical-user relationship, and, therefore, in those terms also causes us some reluctance. Going further, because it's a law, as we say, from our point of view, that has a marked business character rather than health care, we should even consider, already put, a question like the labor relations, but, of course, that can be fruit of another type of regulation. Finally, we understand that it is not a product of any kind, it is a drug, and therefore the user and the user must receive a warranty of assistance. As we say, this law is set up in business terms, in terms of one part of the sector, but not at all, and therefore we need to have the other point of view and ensure the whole process. We will plan, as we have already proposed some partial amendments in this respect, to be a little more restrictive not by the will to be restrictive, but to ensure that this control, with some possible limitations or proposals on how it can be formulated, so as to ensure that this question of zoning is properly met, that the law comes in a somewhat open and not concrete manner. We think it's much more efficient to be more concrete, to have more quality in legislation. We defend, moreover, that we can regulate or understand the need to regulate the tax, business and employment issue, but as we say, it must not be the law's axis. In any case, for us there are two foundations: one, to guarantee the quality for the end user, of course; and two, we are in favour of guaranteeing the concession, the ownership, of the pharmacies, yes. Those two aspects must never be touched. So from there we have to build. What we ask ourselves is why construct larger limitations that are not, as we say, fully explained? We are aware that there is division, discrepancy within the sector, but it is not explained by why some measures or other measures; or why this debate is being tackled from one point of view and not from another. Why set more limitations if, in fact, what we must do is ensure that the system works, from the global point of view of the granting of ownership, and guarantee the quality for the user. The other regulations we understand should be more specific to a much more specific area of business and fiscal, and to enter this area of law seems to be more concerned about a business than health issue. We have come to this conclusion again. In addition, there are some issues that we also intend to address, which is the difference between restrictions or restrictions on sales pharmacies to the public — as it were simply — and hospital pharmacies. For example, in the quality control of medicines that can or can not be dispensed. It would be natural to think they should be exactly the same, but they're not; and therefore we wonder why, depending on where some medications are dispensed, they can be used in one way or another. We even know that this is a complex issue, we are conscious, but a law, since it is faced from this point of view, should enter health and healthcare matters. And, as we say, as this law has a more business cut than health, it doesn't come into this issue, and we wonder why we don't debate more widely on this issue. In general, we expect more depth, more explanations and greater quality in explanations, because, as we say, it is a law put forward in terms of labour procedures, business procedures, which has not been brought to this Parliament or discussed in this Parliament before, which has not even been proposed — it has not opened up this possibility of debate — even though it has been tangentially, around other debates. So we think you lack the user and user point of view, we think that point of view is not taken into account and we want it to deepen. That's why we're going to make it easier for you to get into that question when you go through it; because, let's be realistic, the law is going to process itself or yes, it's an arithmetic question. And we believe that it is necessary for that law to be able to go forward if, from our point of view, we are well-treated all the points of view, which are all fundamental; it is not about inverting the axis, but about complementing it with the two, and we believe it is not complete. In my remaining time, valuing the amendment that has been tabled — about which we will also have to stand — in line with our position on the general law, we are going to wait for the process of law to be able to enter into the specific issues, insisting that we share some of those that have been positioned here and that the Tide Group has put forward. There are interesting debates: the depletion and the guarantee of access, which we have raised; the debate of production, which was also raised here and which is interesting; and the regulation of the discrepancy of hospital and non-hospital pharmacies. We therefore aspire to a real, productive debate. As we say, we have a fairly warm perception of the productivity of the parliamentary debate with this Government, which usually develops more the coup of most, legitimate, but which in a way does not contribute to a real parliamentary debate, which is not fictitious and can be a more open debate. We think it's possible to have it. During the process of this law -- you can also recognize it -- there were some suggestions that were made from other bodies, from other administrations, that were taken into account. So we believe that there is an area of greater dialogue in this field of what there is or what was in other matters, in other policy developments. We believe that if that dialogue or that openness to hear some questions can be maintained, this is a space where we can have some issues where we agree, and thus contribute to lowering the tone of the debate in the health system. In other matters, the truth is, we are not being able to reach any point of agreement, and we believe that, as happened this morning, when the Government rectifies and begins to give us reason, at least we will end up assuming that something will begin to move forward. The truth is, if we have to get even to what we call overcoming what is not surplus, we'll get there. In the end, the important thing is to improve the health system. What a pity we haven't done before with budget processing, which is what we proposed, and they're giving us the reason now, amending their own budgets! In any case, with this law we will facilitate this process. We expect a dialogue position in your process, which can be more explained and can incorporate a user or user perspective, far beyond a business-only perspective. Because, if not, the truth is we're going to stay not only in a small law, but in a part law, and a part law is never a collective law that can benefit everyone. In that wish we will facilitate the processing of this law. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u58	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor of Health. Before I started, I wanted to tell Mrs. Solla that I was puzzled. I think you're installed in ancient times, today no pharmacist does not dispense contraceptives. Plus, there are a lot of contraceptives that are prescribed by specialists and dispense with the recipe. I think that corresponds to antiquity, not to the times we live today. Mr. Torrado says he hasn't spoken for anything of this law. I'm surprised too. Maybe he doesn't know, but he was in two annual plans of board regulations. Precisely it was not approved, and it was delayed its approval, to facilitate contributions and that there was much more participation in the adoption of the law; that was first. Secondly, a little appreciation. You say that the law is very small, that the law doesn't include a lot of things. Laws usually set general lines, regulatory development comes after. You don't want to run, we're starting, it's the first step. We will then set up the presentation and be able to participate in this law with many more suggestions from the parliamentary groups. Focusing on the issue, Counsellor, today we are debating this whole project of the Pharmaceutical Management Act that we believe will serve to provide the pharmaceutical sector with a new regulation that is more consistent with the times we are living in, which can address and provide a more effective solution to current demands and needs of both pharmaceutical professionals and users. Here it was said, and I think we all agreed, that it was necessary to renew a regulation that dates back to 1999 and that it was not adapted to current circumstances, neither technological nor demographic. Twenty years have passed since the previous law was passed in this Parliament. In fact, the only argument that some opposition group could find to ask for the return of this bill, Counselor, was that it was not expected that Sergas would make his own medicines to prevent deforestation. To make sure they weren't there, I'd also have to make raw materials and excipients. You imagine what that could be, don't you? Which gives an idea of the few reasons that exist to oppose this bill. By the way, Mrs Solla, no one has laughed at you in the Health Committee when he talks about master formulas. To make Sergas all the generics, that — as I said — is something else. This project, in spite of being linked to the development of health policy, is the innovations that we believe have transversal aspects and priorities with which the Government is currently working, both in rural care and in adapting public services to our demographic and territorial reality. There are many examples of this in the text, and you talked about some of them: the introduction of the concept of an attached boutique, which can be installed in places or parishes where a pharmacy office cannot be installed. In the case of, for example, rural areas that are much wider and that there is no good communication with the nearest pharmacy. So, too, the possibility of an attached shop in those cases where a pharmacy closes, so as not to leave a certain area unattended, because for us the Greeks and the Greeks are the priority. It also introduces the supposed special supply of medicines and health products to people who reside in very isolated areas or are dependent. We believe this is very important, we do not agree with Mrs Prado here, because it precisely adapts the legal regulation to the new needs of the Greek society, which is characterized by the high aging rates, which lead to, as we all know, a considerable increase in chronic diseases and pluripathological patients. From the People's Group, we do not share this amendment to the whole one that presents the En Marea Group. In the explanatory statement, for example, he talks about the right to health. It's a conceptual matter, but we'd like to clarify it. We have the right to health care in its broadest sense; we have the right to health care, to receive health care; we have the right to our rehabilitation; we have the right to policies to promote and prevent health, but unfortunately, Mrs Solla, neither health care nor governments have the right to guarantee the health of people, because, as you know, health is influenced by the genetic burden of each one of us and by the lifestyles. I wish we could do it! What can of course be guaranteed is the right to receive quality health care, so that it can influence individual and collective health, and pharmaceutical care is another part of health care. The regulation of pharmaceutical care in our autonomous community is precisely taken into account in this project. You say the text is insufficient in terms of regulation of the rights of the population in pharmaceutical matters. This, at least, is a toast to the sun. Article 8 clearly sets out the rights of citizenship; and Article 7 lays down the obligations for pharmaceutical establishments, which, of course, translate into improvements for the population. Of course, within the competences we have in the Galician community, such as the management of pharmacies, pharmaceutical services and pharmaceutical services. There are other aspects — which have already been said here — which are collected in the State's basic legislation: Law 16/1997 on the regulation of the pharmacy office service, and the recast text of the Law on the Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Health Products, which sets the basic criteria for the management of the pharmaceutical sector, both as regards pharmaceutical establishments and as regards the rational use of medicines. But the entire text of the bill is oriented towards regulating pharmaceutical care, understood as a service of public interest, aimed at ensuring to the citizen the rapid and effective access to rational use of medicines and health products he needs. With regard to the accessibility of the population to drugs, it is possible, and it is possible, precisely, because we have a wide network of pharmacies that this bill, precisely, ensures that it is maintained and adapted to current needs. In addition, it also regulates primary care pharmacy units and hospital pharmaceutical services, all of them coordinated with health facilities and services, so that any prescription of an optional can be dispensed in an axile service and establishment. The one related to the supply of medicines is already another topic. As you know, it is the responsibility of the Spanish Medicines and Sanitary Products Agency, which is working on a supply guarantee plan for the period 2019-2022. And Galicia — the Counsellor here is — offered and expressed his intention to collaborate absolutely with this project. Mr. Torrado, you who are so concerned about the disaster, now have the opportunity for your Government in Madrid, and yourself, to try to solve this problem. We, of course, would be delighted to make it. When any deforestation occurs in Galicia, the Agency is promptly notified to mobilize supplies; and if necessary, the import of drugs is authorized. As for the therapeutic adherence to low economic resources — you yourself have just said — it is the responsibility of the State to regulate pharmaceutical approaches, so you cannot expect this to be dealt with in the draft law. Within the competences we have in Galicia, it includes several articles related to the role of follow-up to therapeutic adherence, both in primary and hospital care, since, as you know, many factors are involved in adherence. For example, among the functions of primary care pharmacy units is to ensure therapeutic adequacy and improve adherence to treatment etc. Among the functions of the hospital pharmacy service is to ensure this therapeutic adequacy, to improve treatment adherence, and to ensure that users achieve the best health result from drug use. I'm reading the articles in text. So, Your Honor, the topic of adherence to drugs is indeed contemplated in the project of what you demand for the return. So does he when he thinks we've got public pharmacy offices in Galicia. The state's basic regulation is very clear on this subject. You tell me a single community that had done so. You know it's not possible. But what is possible is that, as private institutions of public interest, they have a regulation which, on the one hand, enables good distribution in the community, equity in their access and good coordination with the public network, ultimately, all that allows citizens to access the pharmaceutical benefit, and all this is envisaged in this bill. Another of the reasons why In Tidea demands the project's return is the permanence of the conscientious objection to this norm. You know that conscientious objection is a right of professionals. You're a health care worker, Mrs. Prado too, and you know you can't ignore the conscientious objection. Now, whenever it does not limit or condition the right of the citizen to access a medicine or health product, this is provided for in Article 9 of the law and will be developed regulatoryly afterwards. As for access to the pharmacy office title, do you want to tell me what is the restriction for a pharmacist who does not have a pharmacy office to be able to file for the contest to access the new adjudications? The answer is: none, since in the current proceeding, derived from the barrem of Decree 66/2018, so decree 146/2001 was amended on planning, opening, transferring, closing and transmission of pharmacy offices, there were no specific limitations to access the title. The return of this project, ladies and gentlemen, meant a loss of opportunity to improve the current law with twenty years of operation. That would be a loss for the Greeks and the Greeks, Mrs. Prado, because this law needs an adaptation that will allow us to continue to pay good pharmaceutical attention to the sanitary devices of our community. On the other hand, and due to the delay of the debate, we already know the partial amendments of the groups, and the group that amends to the whole finally introduced 22 amendments, of which 4 are to the explanatory statement. Nor does it seem that there are so many issues that you disagree with as to justify a request for return. We consider it to be a very involved bill, with very good processing, in which the Board has been permanently open and receptive to all suggestions, they have come from official schools, from scientific societies, individuals, professional associations... I would also like to highlight what important changes there have been in this law, such as the introduction of a minimum percentage of 10% of the quota; and the adaptation of the modules to the calculation of pharmacy offices, the demographic evolution of the areas, are reforms that arose from individual proposals, and this seems very important to me. Proposals from individuals, Mr Torrado, who read the preliminary draft at the Joint Transparency Portal, made their claims and suggestions and were admitted by the Board, which shows that, indeed, we have a good system of citizen participation in the drafting of standards and that we have an open and receptive government that admits and incorporates the good ideas from where they come from, something we also hope to do now in the parliamentary process. This bill, Counsellor, we understand that it is necessary, that it is good for the pharmaceutical profession in Galicia, as well as it is good for the Greeks and the Greeks, so we hope that it will become law after it becomes even more enriched, if fit, with the parliamentary process. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Now we greet the 5th primary students from downtown O Pombal, Vigo, as well as their teachers and escorts. Welcome to Parliament. Replica shift. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u61	Thank you, President. The truth is that we were doubting what the intervention was going to be about, and therefore if, despite presenting this amendment, we abstained or voted against, because I have already moved in the initial intervention that there are concrete aspects in which we can agree, but, frankly, Mrs Vispo, it does not make us very angry at its intervention, because it ridicules the opposition proposal, when we are setting up here a debate that we wanted it to be at least serious, is frankly irresponsible. That you transfer that the right to health is a conceptual element, I think it insults people, those 100,000 people who transfer the CIS that do not currently have access to treatments because they have no money to pay them, and I think a serious government should address this issue within a norm. It's not a concept, it's eating or buying drugs in many families. Let's translate it and discuss it in Commission 5th, and since 2012 the People's Party has been denying the greatest on this issue. If you think of it as a minor issue, or that there should be more amendments within the partial amendments — which, of course, is already a novelty to debate them in the whole debate — it seems to me, of course, that should be you, if it seems little to you, those who have proposed some element of control. We ask for it on several occasions, and it was not accepted by the Government because that reality is denied; a reality that is not true that depends only on the ministry. Look, when the Royal Decree 16/2012 was passed by the People's Party, you had the possibility, from the autonomous communities, to supplement those cuts, and some autonomous communities did. It's not done here, it's not done here, and there's 100,000 people in Galicia, about 3% of the population, who can't get their drugs out of the pharmacy because they don't have the money to do it. That covers more than the regulation of shops, which, of course, needs to be modernised and updated, but I find it irresponsible to deal with such frivolity a matter like this. Look, it's also frivolous that you question the question of what a parliamentary group might have about the opportunity to have a public lab. You're very funny, and I was talking about Mr. Campa planting sauces the other day, but there's no rule, against what you move here, which prohibits. We simply have to be brave and think that it's a problem, the desisting of drugs, in the middle and in the long run, and that it requires measures that go from what it has to do with centralized purchasing to what it has to do with the possibility of producing what is not patented. I remembered the other day, in the Health Committee, a debate we had about access to hepatitis C drugs, and the impossibility, by its refusal, of producing a generic when there were enabling formulas within the regulations. They didn't want to address this issue, and today, we're having a quiet debate, they don't want to address it either because you're not interested. Not only is it necessary to purchase active substances. You referred to the need for the production of active substances, but you can also buy them. The problem of drug depletion has different sources, some are for the active substance, but many others are not. You know there's a problem with the speculation of big pharmaceuticals regarding the sale of drugs to different countries, that sometimes they are sold to countries that provide the most economically, and therefore they are more profitable. And there's also a problem with the safety of drug production, because in many cases, large pharmaceuticals are outsourcing production to countries that don't have the requirements that the European Union is asking for when they're going to buy drugs. There's a number of problems in connection with deforestation, it doesn't have a single cause. We simply put the need for a debate on this issue on the table. It is necessary to give the debate, but you don't even want to give that debate. There are other elements that previously haven't given me time, and I think there are thighs left in what has to do with the law. There was no reference to the health sector, and the reality is that, for example, in Euskadi, a decree of content has recently been passed quite similar to this law that is being put here today, but which differed in some respects, mainly in what you have to see how these drugs would be prepared or whether they would be moved to the homes of older people — I think there will be time to discuss it. It was centralized in a single unit, which is not done in this norm, and it is not expected what cost or implication will have for what is the pharmacy of the health centers. There are a lot of things to discuss, and, frankly, we have tabled this amendment to the whole because we would like to see that, beyond the update of the regulation of shops, private primary care pharmacies of public interest in our country, we have had the opportunity to talk about something that — as I said — is a substantial part of the health budget in any autonomous community and, in addition, a key element when we have an increase in our country — and I have already finished — of pluripathology and aging that increases the consumption of drugs. We wanted the debate to take other keys, extend the Pharmacy Act to something more than how drugs are dispensed. It seems to us a question of country, and of sovereignty, too, when it comes to providing a right. I'm done. It exists in legislation, repeat: General Law on Health, Article 10, it comes specified, point 14: the right of access to drugs, and it is not contemplated in this norm. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the legislative texts. First of all, we are voting on amendments to the entire Bill, so a credit supplement is granted for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019. First of all, we are voting on the amendment to the whole alternative text of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the whole with alternative text, from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, to the Bill, whereby a credit supplement is granted for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u63	We are now voting on the amendment to the Socialist Parliamentary Group as a whole, also with alternative text. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the whole with alternative text, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to the Bill granting a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u64	We now vote for the bill. We vote. Vote of the Bill granting a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; votes against, 0; abstentions,32. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the law granting a credit supplement for the reinforcement of priority actions for the year 2019 is hereby approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u65	We are now voting on the amendment to the full refund submitted to the draft law on pharmaceutical management by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. From Marea to the pharmaceutical law bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole and therefore this bill continues its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u66	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the second point on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the schedule of non-university teaching staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u67	An amendment was tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u68	To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u69	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. We are debating this motion today, as a result of the interpellation I have made to Mrs Education, Universities and Vocational Training in the past full, on the schedule of teachers, both of the teachers' bodies and of the different secondary bodies, in our Autonomous Community. It seems necessary to clarify that this motion is not to ask teachers, teachers and teachers and high school teachers to work fewer hours, or much less; it is for them to have more time to develop their work in a more effective and comfortable way and for that effectiveness to be transferred to who is the ultimate recipient of their work, who are the students and students of our education system. As was said in the interpellation: we're talking about a policy framework that dates back, nothing less, thirty-two years ago, when in 1987 the schedules are first regulated in our Autonomous Community. Later, in 1997 — i.e. twenty-two years ago — when the organic regulations of the primary and primary education centres, secondary schools and integrated public institutions were developed, the hours of all teaching bodies were regulated, but the hours that they were to give effectively at the schools were not altered. In other words, it was clearly established which activities each teacher must pursue within these hours of stay in the centres as well as outside the educational center itself. Because, as we all know — and if not, we should all know — teachers and teachers, in addition to the time they spend teaching directly, have quite a considerable amount of hours of work both in their own centres and in their homes to prepare their educational activities. In 2007, and by agreement with all trade union organizations, the hours of the master's body were reduced from twenty-five teaching hours to twenty-one. I insist: it was a unanimous agreement with all trade union organizations. In 2011 the Education Council withdrew that reduction and rescheduled the schedule in twenty-five hours per week. But the withdrawal of that reduction was not due — however far as they are endeavouring to justify somehow those responsible for the Council — to the need arising from the need for the redistribution of twenty-five hours in class. And the most obvious proof that this is the case -- as it was said a week ago -- is that the catalogs of master bodies have not been modified based on the number of units that each child and primary education centre has. Because if the necessity was given by this dysfunction, of course, the catalogues should have changed; but no, the catalogues have remained and remain identical since 2007. In fact, we should all review what this order says in 2011, which resumed the teachers' hours at twenty-five hours, because it said it was "necessary to regulate the duty of guard and custody that the teacher has on the student of the schools of childhood and primary education, special and secondary education (...) since the student arrived at the centers until the educational activities started", that is to say, for all of us to clear up, since the student arrives at the centers in school transport and the classes begin. So nothing had to do with that reduction with a real need that it would be necessary to give more class hours. If this was little, in 2012 the hours of the rest of the faculty of secondary bodies were changed on the basis of that famous Royal Decree Law 14/2012. And here we spoke today in the morning, when we were discussing this engineering that just approved of budgetary modification to take advantage of the surplus, which is not there, but that if you are going to be, one part this year, another part, and there is a third part that you don't know very well from where it comes from, but, ultimately, it was done by a government, and said some spokesperson—that I don't quote not to give him the foot that later intervenes by allusions—that the Government of the royal decree. I referred to that this royal decree was passed by Mr. Rajoy's Government with an absolute majority and therefore had no need to resort to that normative framework. Now we have an approved law — as someone would say best — "as God commands and Christ teaches us". That is, in the Galician Parliament?, no, in the State Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies; a law passed there, not by an emergency procedure which then needs to be validated in Parliament, but by its complete processing. That law states that schedules lower that minimum number of hours and leave it in the hands of autonomous communities... i.e., they regain competence to establish and regulate teachers' schedules as they consider relevant. And therefore, although it establishes a minimum number of hours as an indicative character, nothing prevents each autonomous community, and in the specific case of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, from having a timetable for teachers similar to that which we had before that order of the Council of 2011 and beyond 2012. It is important to know that since the ruling of the People's Party in the Autonomous Community, 1,472 teachers have been reduced — and I said so in my interpellation — between 2010 and 2018. I don't think it is necessary to expose to your lordships the corresponding chart — although I have it here — but the reality is what it is. And I was saying -- and I suppose it won't be contradicted -- that these are official data, that they are data from the administration itself, from the public service statistics. In other words, in 2010 — which had ruled the People's Party for a year and a half — there were 30,878 non-university teachers, and in 2018, 29,406; therefore, 1,472 less non-university teachers. If this was not enough to recover the initial conditions, the fact is that, in the budgets of the Autonomous Community — it referred to and I will refer again to the years 2017 and 2018 — the budget of the Education Council, in the chapter of Staff, supports, theoretically, at least in 2017, 30,489 non-university teachers. But in the public service statistics, that is, those who really worked that year, were 29,389; that is, a thousand hundred less by giving budget classes in the budget approved by this parliament. In 2018 we had budgeted 30.494 and taught in the centers effectively 29,406; that is, 1,088 minus. It has to be a thousand and eighty-eight thousand cents, a thousand hundred and twenty; reality is naïve and reality shows that, in the theoretical framework that requires an autonomous Community budget, in this council of which we are talking there is capacity, at least theoretical, to have a number of teachers much higher than what is then given in reality. I say this in advance because some parliamentary group that will now come to defend its amendment to this motion says that it must be the State that dares enough to cover this recovery of hours. And I say: no, no, because the budget of the Autonomous Community itself already foresees the theoretical possibility. Because, of course, here theory and practice go quite different ways. The budget of the Autonomous Community itself already provides for a sufficient number of teachers to recover these initial conditions. So our parliamentary group is asking that this House approve an appeal to the Galician Council to regain the conditions of pre-school hours in 2011 and 2012. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u70	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u71	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Mr. Álvarez. He said at the end of his speech that a parliamentary group would now come to defend his motion and say that it must be the State that implements resources for the application of this rule. Home!, I'm saying, yes, as a representative of a parliamentary group, but I told him the Official State Gazette in the law you mentioned. I will read to you at the first final provision of the law you mentioned, which clearly states that "in order to make the provisions contained in this law effective by educational administrations, the General Administration of the State will establish an adequate and sufficient funding framework". The People's Party doesn't say so, saying the law passed by the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] That's why we are called attention today to this motion without contemplating the literality of the rule that you adopted at the Congress of Deputies. That's why we saw the obligation to present an amendment in which we asked that what you approved in that legislative tool be met. Besides, seeing the background, the truth is, it turns out, at least, striking. I remember a few months ago you left behind the negotiation and work of a subcommission that worked for the search for a social and political pact for education arguing grounds for funding. That is to say, you came out of that framework because then the Government of the People's Party does not guarantee minimum funding — which you asked for five percent of GDP — to carry out or carry on or continue negotiating this social and political pact for education. They're completely forgotten about this today, they're not talking about funding anymore, they're coming back to this "I invite and you pay." They come here and bring a motion asking the Autonomous Community of Galicia to take a series of measures that will have a direct effect on their budget. But, of course, the General Administration of the State, which is the one in its own regulatory framework — which has been in force today, since 7 March 2019, approved by the Socialist Government — clearly points out that, in order to comply with this law, it must be the General Administration of the State itself to guarantee a financing framework. So it's very simple, we agree. Can you improve the conditions of the teacher? Yes, of course. They put the resources on the table, approve and accept the amendment we tabled and, at the time that the General Administration of the State has the capacity or make the decision to establish that funding framework which they themselves mark in the first final provision of Law 4/2019, of 7 March, of improving the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education, from then on can be carried out whatever you call. It's that simple! And, I mean, it's not a question or a whim of this parliamentary group, it's the strict compliance with the law that you've passed and by that procedure of what you said about "as God commands". That's right. [[An honourable Member speaks words which are not perceived.]] In accordance with the law that you have adopted by that procedure, what we have said to you and what we have proposed with this amendment is that you set up this funding framework: once you have established, we will talk about how the qualifications of teachers in the Autonomous Community of Galicia remain. Because, I say, this isn't worth "I invite and you pay." No, we are more than when someone invites, if the invitation is real and the invitation is faithful and consistent, because it has to pay too, and especially when it collects it in the legislative tool. I'm saying, it's not a whim of this parliamentary group. Look, the German Government has done a lot to improve the quality of teaching in the autonomous community. We have to point out that in this very legislation where we are having reached an agreement with the unions so that the Greek teachers can improve their salary; that's an improvement in their working conditions. In addition, important public job offers are being made in these years which have served to stabilize public employment in the education sector and to reduce the low rate of internity in Galicia. And besides, he's betting on the continuing training of the professor. There is therefore a clear commitment by the Government of Greece to improve the qualifications of teachers in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And to finish, you were talking about data on teacher reduction and so on, like trying to transfer an image -- I don't mean negative -- to me, distorted from what is the Greek education system. If we're going to talk about data, we're also talking about indicators that measure the quality of the education system. Following these indicators, indicators of early school dropout, indicators of quality, equity, inclusion, we see that the Welsh education system is located in the best places in what is the state domain. So, in that sense, we will defend that if we continue to work for the improvement of teachers, the quality of service and the conditions in which the services are provided by teachers from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but, of course, as you proposed in this law: by complying with the regulations that you yourself have approved. You accept the amendment, you set up that funding framework, and then you hear about the conditions that teachers in Galicia have to have. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u72	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are going to support the Socialist Party's initiative — I will explain — basically for two reasons. The first — as explained — was the situation, the teaching hours of the teacher, both of the children's staff, primary, special and secondary schemes and vocational training, etc. In addition to being modified in 2011, in the year 2012 the regulatory framework in which I assumed one more was changed in the Spanish State, not the only one, of a policy of brutal recentralization. Brutal because it greatly invaded the powers of the Council of Galicia in the exercise of its powers, because, as everyone knows, in the current framework, the 1981 Statute recognizes the full capacity of the Government of Greece to design and develop everything that has to do with public education in our country. There is a demand — I insist — that this was not the only competitive invasion — that is a policy of brutal recentralisation. That, starting in 2019, with that change that was already discussed here, returns to the regulatory framework that existed before. It is therefore recognized the full competence of the Galician board to determine the hourly load or the teaching hours that teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers must be given in our country. This competitive invasion, that usurpation of competences, has been made — because here now it seems like things are going through for reasons I don't know whether weather or climate — with the conviviality and applause of the People's Party at Galician Union, without defending the very least, narrow self-government of this country. Because we don't know, I don't know if for meteorological or climate reasons, now the People's Party — and we see it this morning — is a lot of blow in the chest talking about self-government, but they've actually been kicking on it for ten years, or at least acting in an accomplice way so that the Spanish State Government can step on the scarce powers our country has. For that reason, by developing the competences that this... — I am sorry, that something has been put in my eye! — and by leaving behind those absolutely recentralizing policies that invade the competence framework of this country, we agree to regain that teaching schedule prior to the changes, particularly that of 2012, to that order of the year 2011, already imposed by the Council, which was explained by Mr Álvarez. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández gets away from the microphone and rubs one eye.]] Let's remember that this meant going back to those eighteen hours of high school, vocational training and special regimen and to the twenty-one of children, primary and special education, which is, on the other hand, a unanimous demand from all the organizations that represent the professor of this country and which have been demanding the Council of Galicia in an unceasing manner in recent years, as a recovery of the rights that have been stolen from them and that have been denied to them by the People's Party since the first session of Galicia. In that sense, for these two reasons, we understand that it is sufficient to support this proposal which the Socialist Party makes today. So what you can't try to use as an excuse is that budget allocation that's anticipated. You, Mr. Fernández Gil, referred to the final provision of the law of the year 2019 itself, which requires that the Spanish State provide in this case with the resources necessary to implement the amendments provided for in the law itself. What can't serve is an excuse or a parapet for not recognizing the rights of teachers and teachers, of teachers in our country. What we think is an excuse or a sub-refugee for not recognizing the rights that are being claimed by trade union organizations and teachers in our country as a whole. That Galicia is infred in its public services, to a large extent by the economic relationship that exists between Galicia and the Spanish State, is not exclusive to what it has to do with the rights or the hourly burden of our country's professor; it has a general character. What can't be used as a parapet now to ignore and not meet the demands — I insist — of the union organizations representing the professor of our country, which, in addition, implies returning to a situation that was prior to those reforms of the year 2011-2012. I insist that we vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u75	Thank you, President. First of all say that, of course, our group will also support this non-legislative proposal that the Socialist Group brings today. And we want to support it because, as we have seen on numerous occasions in this chamber, it is urgent and necessary to correct the very harsh cuts to education that the People's Party has had during the last ten years with the excuse of the financial crisis. So we've been defending it since we entered this chamber, and so our parliamentary group in the Senate defended it when, in February, the draft law on improving the conditions for teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education, which is very related to the debate we have today, was discussed. As it is well known, with the excuse of the crisis, the People's Party has repeatedly reduced the percentage of expenditure on the Spanish gross domestic product representing education to the minimum historical of 3.7 percent, pointing out what their priorities are, and in our country has come down even two tenths less, putting us on the tail of all Europe, which I suspect is a brutal loss to the public school of 90 billion euros. The cuts were intendedly "justified" — between quotes — appealing to the exceptional circumstances of the economic environment. However, when these supposedly objective conditions changed, the People's Party did nothing to improve investment in education, quite the opposite. They have already, as has been said here, been going for more than six years since the adoption of the Royal Decree on Law 14/2012, urgent measures to rationalise public spending in the field of education, and despite the changes made we still suffer many of their evasives. There's no more to consider, for example, that when we started this school in Galicia in September, we had fifty-eight classes and ninety teachers less than last year. The macroeconomic data — they insist — indicate that the worst crisis has happened, but the People's Party remains determined to dismantle public and quality education. As mentioned here, one of the clear indicators of the difficult situation that goes through public education in our country is the number of hours of education that takes the teacher compared to their European counterparts. In primary education, Spanish teachers give more than half the rest of the European teacher, which is 15.48 percent more hours a year. In secondary education, in vocational training and special regimen education, Spanish teachers and teachers offer 40 and five hours more classes, 6.7 percent more than their European counterparts and counterparts. Finally, if we take into account the Bachelor's degree, the middle grade training cycles, the artistic teachings or the official language schools, the Spanish teacher teaches fifty-eight hours more than classes, 9.13 percent more than the rest of the European teacher. It is therefore, of course, to adapt the teaching day of the Spanish teacher to the middle of the European Union, both for the sake of justice and for the quality of the teaching itself. It is a fundamental demand that teachers have been repeating year after year, and of course the entire educational community, because we must not forget that by violating the rights of teachers we are also violating the right of children and children to access public education of the highest quality. In order to achieve this, it is not enough to change legislation, but it is necessary to continue to hire teachers and teachers. There are more than thirty-five thousand teachers and teachers of primary and childhood education throughout the state and more than thirteen thousand high school professionals. In total, more than forty-eight thousand teachers of compulsory teaching would have to be hired to recover everything they took from us. We would also like to add that the recruitment of all teachers must, of course, also serve to reinvigorate the Greek teacher. OECD recommends that there be a teacher under thirty years of age for every two older than fifty years. What is the situation today? For the percentage is one in seven teachers. This could be done by voluntarily eliminating, without prejudice, part of the teacher's educational burden of more than fifty-five years and replacing some of his teaching hours for complementary hours. Thus, we are in favour of the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party, which, we insist, will have to be complemented by more ambitious means to ensure the quality and continuity of public education in the country. In these measures to us they will always find us to continue to add. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Author of the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of the groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea for this motion that we present. Mr. Fernández Gil, at the end of your speech, you spoke of certain indicators that place the Welsh education system as one of the best in the state, which you know I don't disagree with. You spoke of the drop-out rate, and you remember — that you remember for sure — that you set up this argument as a flag for the Counsellor. I told him that when he ruled the Bipartite that rate was less than the state average; since, of course, she doesn't contradict because it was true. So, everyone, we all contribute to that improvement. You talked about equity etc. In the afternoon we will have the opportunity to speak in a non-law proposition, among other things, of those you referred to. And with regard to what I was saying that some group would defend the need for this measure to be budgeted, call me visionary, if you like, but it was obvious that this was the orientation of your amendment. An adequate and sufficient funding framework that is - we all know how to read, we all know how to consult a BOE, in addition to this law it is small, there are two pages, there is no need to spend too much intellectual effort, at least, to understand what it puts there - in the first, second, final provision. And like not, the education pact came out. I've already told you: we can do a monograph whenever you want because, apart from the one who didn't budgetally provide that change that was intended to be made in that state pact was the People's Party, they were real specialists in filbusterism to be changing between subcommittees the analysis of certain problems so that that that commission didn't move forward in a sufficiently effective way; and that's what you know. [[Applause]] But it will allow me an additional question: if a sufficient budget was needed for the implementation of this measure, who voted against the State budgets of the year 2019? The People's Party, among others? I think you'll remember that. And they always improve their argument with that of "I invite and you pay," and here you know who invited the Education Council and those who paid were the teachers with their time increase. And look: the distorted image is not given by the graphics, because the graphs certainly reflect what the numerical reality of certain indicators is. And when I say this is the reality of what is planned, and what is in practice developing educational activity in the centers of our autonomous community is what it is. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the House a brochure with graphics.]] And if there's a reduction of 400 teachers between 2010 and 2018, and it turns out that their own budgets support a thousand more, little additional funding is required by the state to recover those schedules. So it's a question of political will; political will in which it seems we're not going to find the People's Party, this time as elsewhere, as far as the improvement of the education system is concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u78	Thank you. On the amendment: I do not accept it, I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u79	No, you understand perfectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u80	Thank you. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the physiotherapy service in the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u81	There's an amendment from the EMEA Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Eva Solla Fernández, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Additional amendment.The following text should be added to the resolution in point 1 of the resolution: "...so that health centres contain with professionals on their premises according to the ratios recommended by WHO, so that in cases where the ratios are smaller than the recommended, there will be a reference professional as near as possible."Additional amendment.You must add a new point to the resolution with the following text: "4o. Condition the Primary Care Physiotherapy Units that require it, for the approach of chronicity and the problems arising from aging through therapeutic exercise."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u82	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u83	Good morning again. Thank you, President. We have this motion today, the truth is that after a less fruitful debate than could have been the subject of past interpellation, but there was some question that was of interest and that today we would like to concreteize, if possible. Although, given the inconcretion — obviously, voluntarily — of the past debate, it does not seem that we are going to achieve any question. From our point of view, the debate is based on the same terms and in the same scheme, to see what our concrete proposals are. There are three questions that, on this debate, we want to raise. One, which is a question of numbers of professionals. You know that we have this fear that there is a lack of professionals in the health system. They're missing, many and many professionals are missing in the health system and, of course, also in the case of physiotherapy. Secondly, a question that has to do with this so much of the model: "reforming the model" is a very used expression, but in the end, reforming the model, if one turns around to end up in the same place, it's turning around, but it's not reforming anything. What we've been asking is if it's some question that can be referred in this direction, and the case of physiotherapy clearly allows working on that line. And thirdly, a question that seems smaller, but which, from a symbolic point of view, is also quite important and, besides, in fact, is not less for the exercise of the profession and for the quality of care: the guide of physiotherapy, which is lost somewhere, somewhere in some area of the council, or equally lost between drownings of some documentation that miraculously is lost every time by Sergas. On the issue of the professional deficit, there must be some agreement that there is a deficit — although not normally — because we have used the last interpellation here to announce, on the part of the advisor, that new places for physiotherapy in Sergas would be called; therefore, it is reasonable that we come to an agreement. No one on the part of the PP ever mentions that there is a deficit, but sometimes some interventions are used to announce that there will be new squares; we understand that, from a point of view of the logic of management, squares are called when there is a need for them. So we're grateful to you for agreeing with us that there's a shortage of squares. Yes, the squares have been announced to the PP mode: we announce the squares; now, budget allocation we'll see, and the number of concrete squares we announce, that's already, if so, we'll see it. Because, in the end, they announced there were going to be some squares, but he said explicitly: I'm not going to tell you how many, as if it were a secret. We'll announce squares, see if they're guessing, I won't tell them how many. Well, we're thinking something a little more serious, which is trying to do an analysis of something concrete to decide, pose or try to wake up how many would be reasonable; not necessary, that are more, but reasonable, that are always less than necessary, given the policy of cutting the People's Party. It's been a lot of years accumulating and we can't solve one day at a time. What's our proposal? Well, it has to do with the history of squares that have been convened in recent years. I know I put it here in the past debate and it has provoked some controversy, but we're going to repeat it, because it's interesting. In the last year — the last budgets, the last call — of the Government chaired by Emilio Pérez Touriño, in one year, fifty-four places for physiotherapy; fifty-four, 2009 call. In 2010: zero, in 2011: zero, in 2012: zero, in 2013: zero, in 2014: zero, and in 2015: eleven. So many calls to eleven squares. The theme should already be limited, which then, in 2016: zero, in 2017: zero, in 2018: zero, and there was seventy-one in the last call; good data, no doubt, as we already proposed. It's true that the number of internals in the system is much greater than those seventy-ones; what we then proposed is that we are assuming that, at most, we will stabilize some squares, which is a good measure, but the reality is that new squares will not exist. What do we think? There are currently one hundred and fifty-nine physiotherapy sites in primary care; from our point of view it is reasonable to increase them. Should we increase enough? Yes. Is it possible? It's harder. So we don't assume that we should ask for everything because yes, for free and at any time. What do we think? Increase 50 percent in three years. Why 50 percent? We're open to any kind of proposal, but it seems reasonable that physical therapy, having as little number as it has, should have 50 percent. And in three years — making numbers — eighty squares in three years is not too complicated. I know it's difficult to match accounts; if all a government is able to call it surplus than it's not surplus, it's going to cost them to take out 80 well-drawn squares. But eighty squares in three years is not too complicated; it's possible and, if they don't, it's because they don't want it. Let's see if that announcement from the councillor, of "we're going to convene squares but we're not going to say how many places", can go in that direction, and if it goes that way, see if we're able to vote in favour of everyone and we can't find ourselves voting against this -- even if they're going to do so -- because the proposal is another group. Even though they end up giving us reason all the time, but there seems to be some kind of moral impediment to voting something that comes from another group. Let's see if we can get through this. Finally, our proposal is there. It's possible, it's eighty squares in three years and we think at least we're moving forward. I leave them another data: we have in Galicia a physiotherapist or a physiotherapist for every seventeen thousand inhabitants. In the Vigo area, one in twenty-four thousand; about the proportion of votes the PP has in Vigo, about. What we propose is that there is at least one tendency to approach the middle of the World Health Organization, which is not possible to reach it immediately, but which is one every three thousand. We're six times worse in Galicia than the World Health Organization says. Yes, I know: there are other communities that are worse, but you see, this politics thing is curious, and you have to try to compare yourself with what's right, not with what's wrong. Because if you compare yourself to those who are bad, then you end up making politics to get worse, and we understand that's not the goal. So let's try to grow; that's our proposal. The second question is how to adapt the functions to training, and this has to do with the overall model. You've been talking about reformulating the primary care model for some time now. Reforming the model, reforming the model and reforming the model, and the reality is, they haven't proposed anything yet about changing the functions of professionals. What do we propose? That we have to open up the functions and possibilities that professionals have. You're reducing them. Let's be clear: you, from the Government of Spain, have reduced their functions to nurses and nurses. Do you remember that nursing prescription decree? You limited the nurses' ability to do a job they were doing, collapsed, and paralyzed their work so that they had to do it to doctors and doctors and collapsed the operation of the equipment. So the system is slower. If you're only going to trust doctors or doctors, why do other professionals have, like mere helpers? They're highly skilled professionals; we're very professional and we have to give them room to work. Besides, the whole team will work together and understand that system better, because that's how professionals transmit it. Mr. Counsellor spoke of walking towards that concept of head team: we agree, but we have to do it effectively. What does that mean? It means that all primary care professionals have training that is not developing properly, and there's an embedded effect on entry through doctors and doctors. We're satuating them; even a huge amount of their work is devoted to bureaucratic and paperwork issues, and we're finally satuating the whole system about them. Besides, you later -- you know -- have judgments that tell them that doctors are saturated and that they demand Sergas by saturation, and you go and complain. We're losing money because of their inability to manage well; they know that there are judgments in that sense and the truth is that it looks like there's going to be a lot more. So be sensible: let's expand the capacity that professionals have. In this case, physiotherapists in Galicia have a vast workplace in mobility issues and in matters of musculoskeletal pathologies, because they have enormous training there. Let's give them those opportunities; that's our second proposal, which we walk in that direction. Third proposal: the two-month publication of the physiotherapy guide. To recompose the situation: you, from the Government, charged......or collaborated—but they collaborated—they meant they worked with the others—with the College of Physiotherapists, but they instructed you to make a guide, with the commitment that if you were delivered in 2017, you would spread it and publish it in 2018. [[Murmurs]] She's been handed over, and since they delivered her, she's been gone. Of course, there was a problem: that guide was saying they needed more professionals, that they needed more spaces, and that they needed more integrals or more powerfully on primary care teams. And you said yes to everything. They probably said what about "you're already working on it," and "we're working on it," Aznar said. You work a lot on things, but then you never do them; the truth is that it's complicated. [[Applause]] The guide, in fact, has never developed, and we wonder where it is. The advisor gave a hint: we're adapting it to the new model. They're a year and a half with a stopped guide and they're now adapting it to the new model; when they're going to publish it, we're going to have another different model. They publish the guide, which they already have, and, if ever, even, if possible, they pay attention to it, which is much more productive. They didn't spread it because it left them feeling bad, and you want to slap the professionals in the back and tell them they care a lot, but then, if you do, nothing. Fewer flowers and more chapter I, which is much more interesting; less flowers and more normative development, and less flowers and more really meet what professionals ask for and develop what they ask for, because, in doing so, we will have a capacity to have a much more productive and better healthcare system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u84	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u85	Thank you, President. In fact, it's no easy task to be physical therapist in our country. In general, all health professions have a lot of difficulty to be able to carry forward their work and their professional performance in optimal quality conditions, but in the case of physiotherapy, as we have just described and we have discussed on other occasions also in the Health Commission, the staff within the Galician Health Service are frankly demanding and are not enough to meet the needs of a population of 2.7 million people. Let's remember: one hundred and fifty-nine physiotherapists for 2.7 million inhabitants; it's obvious that it's absolutely insufficient. Nor in private, because, even if it is not the central element of the debate here today, it must be remembered that ten months ago — in July — we defend here — in fact, I did it myself — a bill by our group, the first bill — because Galicia did not exist until now — to regulate health advertising. It was voted against by the People's Party. Not ten months later, not a single measure by the Government or the parliamentary group that voted against to fight against professional intrusion. Because precisely the profession of physiotherapy is one of the professions that are most affected — together with podologists and podologists and other health professions — by professional intrusion in health professions. So it's not a country where it's easy to develop the professional abilities of this collective, either in the public or in private. As far as we are concerned, when it comes to the public, the Socialist Party is presenting a motion with a very content similar to the non-legislative proposal that we have been discussing relatively recently in the 5th Committee on Health; therefore, our group is proposing the same amendment: we delete the last point, and now we will explain why. But we agree on the overall initiative. With regard to the plan and the request for that information from that primary course of action on physiotherapy, our group asked about this question and we were answered by the Health Council earlier this year. Obviously, as you know, that guide doesn't exist because the Council didn't publish it, after the professionals did an important job so that it could be done. In the two points that have to do with the professionals within the public system, it seems quite clear, for the data that has transferred the proponent and those that I have just given myself — which coincide with the number of squares for the population we have right now — that a ratio significantly lower than that recommended by the World Health Organization does not favor the early care of physiotherapy in our country. This has a very important element and a key impact on the recovery of those occupational diseases and occupational accidents that are related to the cause of job losses, but also to older people, who have worse functional recovery. We don't understand the service and the care of physiotherapy as an important element within our public health, and the consequence of this is the transfer to private; it's quite obvious. In the committee — and I will do it again — we have put a couple of examples of new, recently built health centres — since it is important now to run because electoral announcements must be made in the municipal campaign — which have been opened without enough staff: we have the centre, for example, of Marin and we have the centre of the Temple, in Cambre. We've been visiting them -- there's a lot more, but I've been there talking to the professionals -- and there's a waiting list in those centers, in part, too, so we're going to talk now -- and I'm going to do it briefly because I don't have much time left -- about how the medical professionals get organized, because for the first consultation there's a lot of time and for the following and a lot more successive. That's how it's impossible to give early attention, of course, and right attention that is kept steady until full recovery or, at least, maintenance of people's musculoskeletal abilities; also in the case of older people, who also need maintenance. So there is this need for increasing squares. We propose this amendment that conditions not only the WHO ratio — which, of course, cannot be reached in an annuality — but that, in cases where the ratios are lower than the recommended ones, while this increase in staff is established, there is a reference professional as close as possible, because we have a problem in the fairness of access to a service that is basic, although it does not seem to be understood by the Council as such. The next point — and I'm done, because I don't have time — to condition the physiotherapy units in primary care that need it for the approach of chronicity and the problems arising from aging through therapeutic exercise, is a demand from professionals. We believe that there are elements beyond derivation or interconsultation in relation to rehabilitation; there are other elements of maintenance that have to be addressed in a framework of population aging in the case of Galicia. And I'm done now. We do not raise the third point because we have registered initiatives that go further in relation to the need for the possibility of citation; that is, that professionals have another kind of relationship. We understand that the Socialist Party — and we already owe it to the committee — suggests that it should be studied first; therefore, we are going to respect the initiative as it is, although we understand that there is a capacity, both by professionals and by the public system, to go further into the integration of multidisciplinary primary care teams. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u87	The College of Physiotherapists itself, at the end of 2018, made a diagnosis of the precarious condition of physiotherapy in primary care. There they established the balance they and they held after a first meeting held with the Health Council — as has already been said — a meeting that the College itself had to demand, because it was not on the initiative of the Council itself. In that balance sheet, in that diagnosis, they themselves established data that is being given here: the small number of physiotherapists in primary care to meet a population of two million seven hundred thousand inhabitants; one hundred fifty-nine physiotherapists who, in the last ten years, only increased in twenty-four, of the one hundred thirty-five existing in 2008 to one hundred fifty-nine at the end of 2018. Of course, by making numbers, it gives the data that was given here: a physiotherapy professional for every seventeen thousand inhabitants. Well, let anyone make the accounts of what kind of attention can be paid to these ratios. They also pointed out that there is a massive diversion to private care and they considered it logical that this should be done so, taking into account this very low ratio and that there are, moreover, outpatient clinics and health centres in which there are not even professionals, despite the existence of facilities. Of course, this is radically shocking to what the Health Counsellor said here in the interpellation formulated in the past, where he said things like this: that there were no more offers in these years because of the crisis and the rate of rest—and it was so quiet—and that you have to create new infrastructures so that you have to work, because there are no such infrastructures and, then, you can't afford more professionals, because there's no place to work. The truth is, it takes courage and a little bit of shame to make such statements here, in parliamentary headquarters. First, the ratios are manifestly very improved, and no squares were called because the People's Party didn't have in its roadmap to establish the care of physiotherapy as something important, priority and necessary in primary care; and then, to say that we have to create infrastructures, when we bring to this parliament initiatives demanding that it be given to physiotherapy professionals centers that do have infrastructures and do not have staff. With which, that good theory that came here to express the counselor, where he also said that he intended to achieve in 2020 five percent instability, that stability was assured and that new squares would be created... Then, in fact, we see that, at the sectoral table held at the end of April and early May, Sergas communicates — that it does not even negotiate at the sectoral table — simply goes and communicates — the creation of nothing more and nothing less than forty squares until 2021 and eight for this year 2019. Of course, we can also go to mathematics: seeing what is the correlation of professionals by population and these squares so generously announced—logo we'll see what remains—by the People's Party in the Government of the Union, at this rate it's obvious that we won't reach a ratio or approximate to that recommended by the World Health Organization, and less to a ratio that allows the population of Galicia to have a physiotherapy attention according to the needs it has, in life; with this number of squares announced in life if you get to a situation of normal ratios. What do the professionals themselves tell us? Something that is obvious: that adequate implementation of physiotherapy in Sergas is not only good for people who need that attention. It would be necessary and indispensable to change the meaning and that physiotherapy, rather than being at the end of the circuit, because people who have some kind of pathology have to go to the head doctor, the head doctor has to turn them to the specialist, the specialist has to give them the appointment, the appointment has to ask them for diagnostic evidence, diagnostic evidence to return to the specialist's appointment, and then, months later, to get to the doctor's doctor's office, it would be much better to turn him around and that there was a possibility that these professionals were actually integrated into those multidisciplinary primary care teams in sufficient numbers, so that they could be derived directly from the family doctors or even go directly to the physical therapist's own consultations. And why? I literally reproduce what they set out: I would reduce basic aspects such as drug spending, such as complementary tests, such as interconsultation, such as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u89	...surgery, like times of hospitalization... ; i.e., it would be advantageous for everyone, starting with what has to be the main object, which is the improvement in the quality of care to be given to the population. With which, this motion presented today by the Socialist Party is minimal, because it sets up a really minimal increase of squares to move forward in the direction that, of course, at the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u91	...we say, that physiotherapy plays a priority role in primary care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u92	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u93	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Our autonomous community is pioneering in the incorporation of physiotherapy into primary care. We have already had many years of advantage over other communities; we began in 1990 to incorporate the first physiotherapists into primary care and currently work around one hundred and sixty physiotherapists in primary care units. Well, Mr. Torrado, I, first of all, would ask you for some consistency. "Cultural impedance to vote opposition proposals": I remind you that in the previous plenary, with the People's Party's votes, four opposition PNLs were approved. It must have some memory. [[Applause]] Of course, it's always criticism of criticism. A few hours ago, right here, they criticized the proposal we betrayed here to invest the surplus in health care, and now they say they don't make money. I don't know. A lot of things have to be clarified. Of course, from Sergas he works; he works on improvement measures that allow a model of primary care that evolves and responds to the needs of citizens. We are the mirror of other communities who want to know the Greek model. Since the Galician Health Service in recent years important improvement measures have been carried out; to highlight some: annual OPE, extension of retirement age, open and permanent competition, professional career, continuity contract, creation of nursing specialties... As you all know, in order to be able to move forward and improve in the primary care model, in December last year the most participatory and transparent process in primary care began, which has no background in our community and possibly in any other, because the measures to be taken to conquer health improvements are the participation of all: public administrations, professionals and citizenship as well. Because we're all responsible for keeping what took us so long to build. Dialogue and shared decisions are imposed. Among the different working groups was the participation of primary care physiotherapists, who were represented both the Galician Society of Physiotherapists and the Galician Physiotherapists College, together with a representative of each health area. Among the commitments reached by the Board after these meetings, it is important to highlight the inclusion of physiotherapist, functionally, as one more member of the primary care basic team, so that it participates in the issues related to physiotherapy in the health center, and the recognition of the autonomy of the physiotherapist in his professional development at this level of care, always taking into account the necessary coordination between primary care physiotherapy units with hospital rehabilitation services. A new figure will also be created: a primary care physiotherapy coordinator, which will have the necessary time and the corresponding decrease in care load to be able to develop all the tasks related to your job. And it's also worth highlighting the development of a new guide to physiotherapy actions in primary care, angular stone and written reference to the development of the new model, in which one will start working in the medium term counting on primary care professionals. The goal is to achieve a document that reflects that physiotherapy can provide and solve at this first level of care and that will also serve to improve your professional relationship. The progressive implementation of the measures necessary to make possible in the long term the change in the role of physiotherapist in primary care and also the creation of new physiotherapy squares in primary care in the period 2019-2024 are agreements to be highlighted. So from Sergas he's been working on decisions together with the professionals. It will promote the presence, within the primary care services, of professional categories whose role is also fundamental in the development of attention to chronicity and the aging of the population as physiotherapy. To conclude, I would like to comment on one of the commitments made by the Government of Greece to comply with the agreements reached in the field of primary care on 8 April at the sectoral table on 3 May: the increase of three hundred and eight new primary care squares in the period 2019-2021, including forty physiotherapy. This is the commitment, and right here we hear the health counsellor, in the previous plenary session, maintain total collaboration with the physiotherapists of Galicia. You have no doubt: from the Health Council, you know the importance and the undoubtedly value of the physiotherapy professionals of the Galician Health Service, primarily in the field of attention to chronic pathology and in the prevention of musculoskeletal pathology. For this reason — as I mentioned earlier — the Council works alongside physiotherapy professionals to reach agreements. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u95	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support expressed by the En Marea and BNG groups on support for the initiative. We will, of course, accept the amendment by En Marea, which contributes to complementing the proposal we have made. On how to fit the functions into the training: yes, of course; we intend to do a study not because we doubt in any case our position in that sense — as explained by the proposal itself — but to know or to fine-tune to what degree and what ability the system of self-organizing itself to do so — let's say — in the fullest possible way, but the line and our position is clear. We also appreciate the position of the BNG. If it is true that it is an initiative of minimals with intent, that it has been approved, although the truth is that one is, sometimes, certainly illusory. It's also good to be excited that you're going to be approved by some initiative, even though you tell me Mrs. Friend that you've approved a lot of them. I was making memory and, in health care, I still don't remember when it was the last one they approved. But it's more... of course, we have to propose, yes, we have to propose; I invite you to come to the Health Committee and to remember when it was the last time the PP proposed something. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I believe that this year there are zero GNP proposals in the Health Committee. I remember: zero proposals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, it's true that you've approved some things, but not health care. You see, they demanded something from the surplus, it was passed in Madrid in a decree, you arrived and voted against it. They came here to sell the surplus — which is not surplus — and now that we facilitate that process, they say we support them. If they don't even know what they're supporting! But look, I remind you more — you know, Mrs. Friend — do you remember how many times they voted against Lugo's hemodynamics? And they finally announced it. They have a moral impediment. But I remind you more: do you know how many times they voted against hemodynamics twenty-four hours in Ourense? And they end up supporting her, because they'll end up doing it. True, they have a moral impediment to voting in favour of issues raised by the opposition in terms of health. I don't know if it's the People's Parliamentary Group or the Government of the United States; I don't know which of the two institutions or bodies decides to vote against, but they have that impediment, they don't. You bet, as an argument to refuse, that you already work in collaboration with the professionals. Look, at the first meeting on the primary care model, the College of Physiotherapists didn't call him, they forgot. See if you're so alert to physiotherapy that they forgot to call them. Of course, what did the Physiotherapists College do? In the second one, appear and complain, and you: no, we count them, we hear them when they complain and we hear them when they complain that we don't call them. Home! If that is to participate, then the truth... finally. And yes, they have full collaboration, physiotherapists have their full collaboration: you're going to vote against increasing the squares. They announced they were going to do it; now, they announced the PP way: budget concretion?; number of squares?, ah!; when? Oh! They're going to convene squares; yes, we bring here a realization to convene squares and, in the end, what do they vote for? By moral impediment, against, as always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u96	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. We suspended the session until 6:00. I think it's an hour... given that we're done a little earlier, I think it's good at 6:00. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Isn't an hour and a quarter enough to eat? The eternal discussion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sixteen o'clock. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u97	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. G.P. motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the mining, energy, water and waste sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u98	An amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau (Doc. # 49578).Amendment of amendment.The decisive part of the initiative should be replaced by the following text:"The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Greece to:– amend Law 03/2008 on the Ordination of Galician Mining, strengthening the principles of:1. Greater environmental protection.2. Using the most advanced available technologies.3. Reinforcement of companies' financial guarantees against accidents and environmental restoration processes.– Derogate Law 04/2017 on the Promotion of Galician Business Initiatives.– The following considerations are taken into strict consideration when issuing the preceptive reports, which will be sent back to the council and economic and social agents, on mining cover San Rafael S.L. in the Town Hall of Touro.1. Obligation to eliminate the pollution currently existing in the waters of the canals that run in the vicinity of the old quarry. This will require a detailed study of the current state of the water quality of the canals coming from the old quarry or the channels whose waters are currently contaminated by the cliffs of the old canal, determining its degree of contamination. The design and implementation of preventive and corrective measures will be carried out to reduce the pollution currently registered by the channels surrounding the former exploitation until they reach regulatory levels. Specific constructive measures to reduce pollution (perimetral channels, decantation rafts, decontamination rafts, etc.) should be applied.), as well as measures to control and monitor the quality of the current channel water affected by the old quarry during the operating period and in the long term after its closure. the water of the channels currently affected by the old quarry during the operating period and in the long term after its closure.2. Study of existing municipal, neighbouring and private water catchment and water management; including in this study catchment and agricultural water. 2. Study of existing municipal, neighbouring and private catchment and water management; including in this study the catchment and agricultural water management.3. Before any action is initiated, it will be necessary to count on the Greening Authorisation of the Galician Watershed Organ, for which its processing must be initiated in sufficient advance.4. A detailed study of the possible impact on the Ulla River and its associated elements in the Town Hall of Touro.5. Include a temporary execution schedule or work programme, which establishes the sequencing of works to perform and identify critical points from an environmental point of view; establishing the sequence of works, so as to ensure that all environmental preventive measures are implemented before performing actions with potential contaminator.6. Include an Independent Restoration Implementation Project, which includes all the detailed elements in this report.7. Include an intensive examination of the scope of the cupboard that determines its archaeological value, and establishes the protection and control measures on it, as well as other elements that may be detected during the performance.8. Include an Environmental Action Project which describes in detail the measures to implement.9. Detail the greenwater purification process during the first five years, so that the debug plant incorporates the necessary equipment to obtain the normative quality levels.10. Include a clean water collection perimeter channel, which covers all the water basins facing the area of the canteen.11. Include a detailed project from the drainage system that completes possible errors detected in the project documents.12. Include a perimeter collection system for water generated inside the holding.13. Include a project authorized by Galician Waters wave details the diversion of the Burgundy and Puchery Waters Channels; a project that ensures that these channels will not be affected by inland running water. 13. Include a project authorized by Galician Waters wave details the diversion of the streams of Burgos and Waters of Pucheras; a project that ensures that these channels will not be affected by inland running water.14. Include a monitoring and control plan for underground installations and waters. This plan should cover the 15-20 years after the closure of the quarry, in order to enable the evaluation of the effectiveness of sealing and dismantling of the activity. 14. Include a monitoring and control plan for underground installations and waters. This plan should cover the 15-20 years after the closure of the canister, to allow the evaluation of the effectiveness of sealing and dismantling of the activity.15. Include a deeper study on the safety measures that could be taken to prevent the risk of failure of the main walls of waste facilities.16 Include the detailed definition of preventive and corrective measures associated with the different auxiliary facilities of the new operation.17. Perform the specific environmental assessment study of the electrical supply line.18. Include a justification for the use of best available process techniques, good environmental practices, as well as a program for energy saving, water consumption and other natural resources.19. Include a landscaped assessment specific to the sterile temporal deposit.20. Includes an Exploitation Quit Project, where it is planned to demolition all structural elements that will not be serviced after closing the canister, including installation cementation.21. Include a detailed Environmental Monitoring Plan, according to the contents set out in the Report itself.22. To include in the project the content of the financial guarantees, detailing to which it responds the fulfilment of the obligations of financing and viability of miners' work, and the other, which will respond to the fulfilment of the environmental restoration plan. Even so, let us know what is the constitution of the above guarantees (deposits in financial institutions, bonds, property etc.)23. To include in the project a detailed risk assessment plan derived from operations and in particular from the management of waste generated by mining, in order to determine as appropriate, by the competent body, the content to be covered by civil liability insurance.24. To plan from the beginning of mining, the social and economic future of the municipalities concerned, developing new appropriate training actions that allow for as easy a professional conversion as possible, as well as strategies for economic diversification, taking advantage of income from mining activities."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u99	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u100	Good afternoon to all and to all. We present a four-point motion. In the first of them we called for the cessation of the general director of Energy and Mines, Bernardo Tahoces; not for his judicial situation as accused of a alleged crime of environmental prevarication, not because he had already been admitted to the proceedings of a complaint by the collective ContraMINAction for obstructing access to information, not because there was going to be more legal cases and news regarding Mr Tahoces, not because there was already a judgement by the High Court of Justice of Galicia that annulled Mr Tahoces' resolution that prevented the neighbors and neighbors of Corcoesto from accessing information. No, it's not because of their legal situation, but because of the facts described in each case of open judicial investigation as responsible for policies in the mining sector tolerant of environmental aggression, people's health and contrary to general interest. As an example of this model, of what he is responsible for, among other things, are the facts that are judged in the Girl's trial, that speak of the management of the San Fins mines, and that, as I said, are no exception but the norm. The inaction of the Autonomic Administration is judged against decades of impunity and recognized by the Galician Waters. The Board's exemption from the environmental impact study, which had been demanded by the Bipartite for the reopening and transmission of miners' rights, is judged. The facilities given to the company are judged in their application for a 1 million cubic metres greening authorisation of ferries and galleries of the old mine. And the performance of the Directorate General of Energy and Mines in relation to abandoned rafts, which pose a threat to the environment, because they can collapse at any time and cause serious environmental damage. In this case, Mr. Tahoces is helping the company demonstrate that these ferries do not belong to mining, so that we all have to pay, with taxes and public money, the restoration and insurance of these ferries, which the company would have to do, on the other hand. And we say that this case is not the exception but the rule because something similar happens in Touro, in Monte Neme, in Santa Comba, in the Louseiras of Valdeorras, where benefits are privatized and environmental liabilities are externalized, the environmental costs that we all have to pay. In Touro it was the Galician Waters itself that he certified, almost a year ago, that all the rivers around the mine are already contaminated, based on the analytical data made at all points of control. Even so, the People's Party continues to defend the reopening of the mine with a mega-project incompatible with environmental security, health and multifunctional and sustainable economic life. The Galician board supports a project that will place two huge rafts of dimensions just a few meters from the population's cores; a 1225-hectare mud raft — 3.2 kilometers by 81 meters high — and another 95-hectare ferry — from 2.8 kilometers long, and from 55 to 74 meters high — with huge dimensions, much larger than, for example, the ferry that caused the human drama in Brazil, in Brumadinho. The project's own documentation admits a high risk of failure, and the consequence of the failure would be human lives and an environmental drama that would even reach the Arousa River. And if it doesn't fail, there will almost certainly be filtrations, like those that have been in the last thirty years in Touro, which contaminate for the next 100 years all the aquifers. And, as we shall know, the company will not be there to restore, to monitor or prevent pollution. It will be with public money, as it is done now. The Environment Adviser, Mrs Ánxeles Vázquez, recently signed an agreement with the Mayor of the Touro People's Party of EUR 60,000 to try to fix the company's outcome; EUR 60,000 to try to fix the pollution and overflow caused by mining. It's the story of always, the profits take them to the company and the costs we pay them. That's why we asked, among other things, to resign Mr. Tahoces. Also because he doesn't comply anywhere or enforces the law, but he's an active collaborator of the contaminating companies. And instead, it pursues and hinders the work of the collectives who want to defend the country. That's why admission through the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to this demand for interference in access to information. Just like admission to UN procedure, also due to non-compliance with the Aarhus Convention. We also ask in our motion for a model change in mining policies. I'm going to read a part of an article that denounces the shameful indoctrination that makes Galician Union in Greek schools to defend what is known as "substable Galician mine," which is nothing other than teaching children to defend the business of certain companies. writes Julia Barbosa, a member of the Touro-O Pino Mine Platform NOT: "If we understand that the social role of mining is expressed in the social use of its resources, it is essential and strategic. But precisely for that reason, because it is a necessary and limited resource, and much more so today, is why its extraction and purpose should not serve to fuel an external demand for unlimited production that satisfies the consumerist and voracious dynamics that are exceeding the physical limits of the planet. Minerals are finite resources. It is not possible to extract them in conditions of susceptibility, for once they are extracted, they wear out. Therefore, and more now that we have the urgency to move towards another energy model, it is inevitable to ensure the availability and use of these resources for the strategic needs that these changes can confront us, both at present and in the future that will inhabit other generations." He also says, another of the arguments put forward to defend this activity: "It is also argued that it brings value to the comarcas in which it is installed, helping to fix population in the territory. This statement does not take the numbers into account. If we analyze the demographic data referring to the twenty years that, for example, the Touro mine was open, the population loss in these municipalities was much more charged — losing 23% of the population in the county of Pino and 24.5% in the district of Touro — than in the following years in which the mine was already closed. And this trend is similar in other municipalities that have also had mines in the open sky, such as Miranda Belmonte, because, if there is no sustainable exploitation model, this type of mining is not compatible with other types of sustainable economic activities, such as livestock, tourism, etc., which are also incompatible with the activity of mining in the open sky." Well, on the other hand, we're asking for model change. We also ask you to give a folder already to the Touro mine reopening project. For more than two years, this project has been started. It's been two years since the company has been given the opportunity to demonstrate that this project is viable and that it's a sustainable activity. But we said more, and we asked the counselor something very simple that I couldn't answer. In Article 33 of Law 21/2013 — Procedures and deadlines — point 4 states: "The technical analysis of the environmental impact file and the formulation of the environmental impact declaration shall be carried out within four months from the full reception of the environmental impact file. This period may be extended for additional two months due to duly justified reasons." This last deadline for technical analysis and the environmental impact declaration began in October 2018. On 21 February, the company Cobres San Rafael submitted the request for a suspension of the environmental assessment procedure; the fourth request, and for four months this time. We asked the advisor if he was authorized to suspend the procedure, and we did not get an answer. Well, it's very important. If the Galician Union has not authorized this suspension requested by Cobres San Rafael, the expiry must be decreed. And if it isn't, they've authorized it, because they've given you the ultimate opportunity to still have a chance to prove that it can't be demonstrated: that this is compatible with people's lives, that it doesn't put people's lives at risk, and that it's compatible with the economic activities that are taking place in the area. We therefore ask them to decree the expiry of the project, or to give a folder to this aberration. Dichotomy isn't between economic development or not. On the contrary, it is between a sustainable economic activity or a predator model that creates little wealth and little employment. They want to make us believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that, for economic development in the countryside of this country, most of us have to pay the losses to a few, the transnationals who seek short-term benefits. On the contrary, your model destroys employment and destroys the future. The model that stands for thousands of people, as seen in the streets of Compostela, is that of the coexistence of the productive and sustainable economy in our territory. The benefits of a Cypriot company don't pay the losses to livestock, tourism, seafood, fishing, etc. We also propose to repeal the "predation law", Law 4/2017, for the promotion of business initiatives, which has been sold to us as a panacea against the relocation of companies and for the establishment of foreign capital in Galicia. Well, in 2018 we have the data. And far from revealing a slight improvement, they show a retreat. Galicia captured, in the first half of the year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u102	...32.6 million euros, 33% less than it had already achieved in the same period of the previous year, in a year in which the Spanish State was a record in the increase in foreign investment capture. And that's what shows what we've already been saying, that this law has not been done to prevent relocation and to capture foreign investor effort, but to make it easier, among other things, to power companies and miners for their future, to make a law to the letter and also in an antidemocratic way, as it was done. And the data is there. That's why we ask for these four points: the cessation of the Director General of Energy and Mines, the change of model in mining policies, the expiry or the folder to the Touro mine and the derogation from the "predation law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u103	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, this morning the councillor of Fairy and the spokespersons of the People's Party spoke about the political instability and nervousness that we were the other political groups in this House, I suppose by the results of the last general election. The truth is, I think that nerves are basically them, because, with Julius Verne's permission, this infinite journey to the center of the cave that the People's Party hasn't just made, and that led them to these 66 seats in Madrid, at last, I think they're, I insist, quite nervous. Today there was even a headline on which they would look — desperately, I put it — all the votes of those repentant Vox voters. The truth is, it's a curious way to go downtown. We're talking about employment on this initiative, and indeed also the councillor of Fairy, showing the usual rigour that he's got us used to, he told us that the labour market was improving in Galicia more than in Spain as a whole. And I insist on data again. I know I'm a little heavy on the matter, but, as I am yesterday, it's good to remember them. Social Security affiliates grew by 2.14% in Galicia last year, and they grew by 2.95% in Spain. At least in the geometry and calculation system that I studied, 2.95 is more than 2.14. The occupation in EPA in Spain has also increased by 3.1% in the last year; and in Galicia by 2.9%. I believe that it would be appropriate — and I repeat, above all, that it should be kept in the Minutes of Parliament — to have a minimum quantitative rigour when speaking, especially on issues that are clearly objective. And the truth is, if it's not strict the councillor of Fairy, as my grandmother said, God set us free. And, in fact, that's how it goes. I want to touch three points on this initiative. The first, addressed to the author of the motion. There is an interview with an economist, who was the author of the energy transition plan of the political group Podemos in 2015, where he is asked about the role of mining and where the materials will come from for our future clean energy, batteries, windmills, solar panels etc. And he answers -- I think with a good sense of reality -- "Of course we need a wide range of materials to build a clean energy system. Extraction requirement is a problem, but it's not the first-order problem within the energy transition. From my point of view, the condition that we can eliminate greenhouse gas emissions, the real problem on the planet right now, is to engage in another way in mining, so that it's less environmentally disruptive." And this same Saturday, in the Public Journal of Lisbon, the decisions made by the government of that country — chaired by a socialist and supported by the Block of the Left and the Portuguese Communist Party — on the conditions that are placed on companies at the moment they seek or are evaluating the existence of lithium mines in the Portuguese North. I think it is appropriate, indeed, to say, to adapt to the economic reality of the planet. Of course infinite consumption does not lead anywhere. But, of course, it is essential to guarantee those raw materials that are necessary. This group does not, of course, question mining or industry — I say for the intervention of the People's Party to save that part. Whoever does the most damage to mining in this autonomous community is the right. I hurt Mr Feijóo when he says, as he did the other day, that the grant of San Fins was granted — worth redundancy — by the two-party Government. Nothing!, a defeat of about one hundred thirty years. But given its rigor... it was in 1883, which is when the English came to search for volframium. Finally, it is these little details of economic history that it is obvious that Mr Feijóo does not know. And then there's the problem of environmental control, which is a very important problem. Undoubtedly, in Touro we have a manifest case... we have a manifest case of what is leaving the roles of the Galician Union in everything that has to be the control of environmentally degraded areas for whatever reason. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, the restoration of degraded spaces, which is a specific budget game, has a run over the last two years by 22%. The fact is that the Touro Council was lucky with that 70,000 Euro agreement, because the fact is that they have stopped spending over the past two years, about 1,700,000 euros — which I suppose will also be multi-annual in this case, I suppose in this case they will also be multi-annual. And with regard to the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, in fact, I believe that the biggest failure is in that absolutely unsustainable speech to reduce administrative actions, which ultimately means a decrease in effective control. That of the responsible statement, which implies a mix of political goodness and defense of private interests, doesn't work, it's obvious. It's more than contrasting, it didn't work in the subprime, it doesn't work at all at all and therefore this is the first problem. And the second problem of this law is the absolutely outrageous political use of the People's Party and the Government of the Union in favour of the councils in which it governs. And if not, ask an auxiliary company of the Vigo area automotive company about the report provided by Igape in which it was recommended to invest in the Town Hall of Mos instead of Porriño because the circumstances were favorable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u106	Of course, in symbolic terms, it's basically called blackmail. Because that high school, which was what gave subsidies to that company, was telling him where to invest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u107	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u108	This is the freedom of installation that the People's Party defends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u109	Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It is not enough for them to have legislation and, above all, the adaptations or modifications that are made in the accompanying laws facilitate and protect these projects, where the sacred interests of capital and business dominate and dominate the general interest, making ridiculous the environmental demands and safety standards that protect, at least in theory, the population. No, they're not enough. They also need to count on the complicity of strategically placed politicians who delay final reports in the public exhibition, grant subsidies that profit activity or directly eliminate pitfalls and pitfalls. They are also the elements of the public limited societies of the undercover crime. But to denounce all this is the opposition, protected by the laws and, above all, by the statute of the Member, which, for example, in its Article 9, makes available to the members of this House the information necessary to carry out a rigorous task of defending the violated legality and the indispensable control of the Government in all mature democracy. Go, go, tell me about Maria Castaña! Falso! In this House it has already been repeatedly denounced the delay in the proper information on the mining activity of San Fins, or on the Touro project, up to year and a half, ladies and gentlemen, year and half!, which should be made available to Members in less than thirty days. And it seems that we have to laugh at them with grace, because the PP brings it with joy, ole! It is a violation of the legality, pre-eminence and cover-up of suspicious aspects around mining activities. In the past, Counsellor, you dwindled the partridge you could not answer this honourable Member about the cessation due to Mr Tahoces. It is a mockery of the parliamentary work that is solifiing the existence of this House and the seriousness and function of it. Ladies and gentlemen, should you or should you not stop the general manager, yes or no? In any serious democracy of the beloved Europe, what would have happened? Parallel trial? No, no, no, no. We seek the political decency of a government that does not have it and therefore does not show it anywhere. And it doesn't even cover up. It continues in prepotence and in little respect for democracy and transparency. San Fins: Prosecutor's intervention, alleged environmental prevarication at the start of a mining activity without an environmental impact study, with repeated dumping of contaminated water, with no minimum controls, with default of sanctions, with threatening packages of unknown property—or have they already found who they were?—. We are aware that we are against mining, that we are pursuing the miners, that we are looking for the ruin of the companies and that we are looking for the breakdown of this country. Don't you pray for your canteen, gentlemen of the People's Party? But you know well that we are aware of the danger of police mining, robbery, those that suck wealth, leave no profit and mortgage the future. That's what bites them. And we completely mistrust you, Gürtel, Pokemon, Punica, the Champion... yes, they're champions. Ladies and gentlemen, 126 hectares of surface, an 80-metre tall concrete wall; and, within, millions of metric tons of steriles, acid loaded with heavy metals and other highly toxic substances. This is on the top of the Ulla basin, threatening lives, health and farms of thousands of people. Isn't that a good reason? Because in Touro there are precedents: a abandonment of mine activity without restoration, with a change of ownership at the price of balance and a continuous contamination and impunity of the rivers in the area without you saying anything or doing the minimal analyses and controls. Do you want more legal reasons? Because this is our legality: the need for transparency and defence of the collective interests of the population. They know what we're talking about. Because all these projects we criticise them are nothing but misery. The activities you cheat are of marked colonial cut, similar to those used and used in Africa or in impoverished areas of the world. And it's not ignorance on his part, it manifests bad faith. They are the commands of their god, neoliberalism, which so commands. And you have to make him begrudging. In his worship everything is worth it. It's all good in business. The evil that causes a business of these provides another business. These second deals are always on the public money account. And that's the great panacea, the public money, the money of all, the wealth of all. That's why they're always going to find us standing up for the people and the country as long as they don't assume political decency, if they're who -- and they'll be. By the way, will Mr. Tahoces cease and clear the Council?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u111	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. White Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u112	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Before I entered the debate itself of the initiative, I wanted to say, firstly, that we are debating a motion today that comes from an interpellation which had nothing to do with the text that was recorded; but we, even so, will not escape the debate for anything. And I'll tell you, Mr. Losada, that the president has already spoken of a hundred and thirty years ago, but the Bipartite who authorized it was the transmission of rights to the new company, and he gave three help to that new company. And by the way, also, that the figure of the responsible statement is created in Spain through Law 17/2009, signed by José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Murmurs.]] With these considerations in mind, we can start with the first point: stop the general director of Energy and Mines, Bernardo Tahoces. I was very grateful for Mr. Sánchez' statements, which said it was not because he was charged, that it was not because of his procedural or judicial situation — perhaps by placing the sale before the wound — because both in the interpellation of the other day and now he has also been continually making mention of that judicial situation, and now it turns out that he says it's not for that. Look, I'll show you a picture. It's very illustrative, a very interesting photograph. It is surprising that someone like Mr. Sánchez, who is going to visit the political prison in Catalonia, which shows them his solidarity, demands justice for them and defends his right to be in the democratic institutions of this country, curiously here in Galicia does not defend the rule of law. [[Mr. Blanco Paradelo shows a photograph from the gallery of speakers.]] Here you don't even respect the presumption of innocence as a fundamental right. Because you've already issued your trial. You want me to resign because Mr. Tahoces, in your opinion, is guilty. And it turns out we don't respect the rule of law in Galicia. Mr. Sánchez, go for it! Go to your political hypocrisy and go to yours! [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, do you think Mr. Tahoces has the right to explain himself and defend himself before a judge, yes or no? But do you have the right to do so by keeping your honor and your innocence, yes or no? [[Murmurs.]] Because we think that yes, he and anyone who finds themselves in a similar situation, even if it belongs to his party. Also, of course. It looks good to us. The Union is scrupulously respecting the work of Justice, always making it available to it to collaborate and clarify all matters that can be investigated. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Sánchez? That you prefer the justice of parallel trials, of sales, that you confirm that you don't care about the truth, that your political group has a double measure when it comes to responsibilities. You know there were constellers of Open Compostela in the Town Hall of Santiago, and even the mayor, who were charged. No one was asked to resign. Or, for example, in the Town Hall of Coruña, in the Tides, people are also accused. He wasn't asked to resign. What he was told was to remind him that his ethical code said that when a concierge was charged, he had to resign. Oh, but he's forgotten. Go ahead, Mr. Sánchez, you've got a face! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You say you want to bet on a model change in mining. Which one? Ruin her, she disappears. They didn't support a single mining project, none. They all always find some kind of inconvenience. Look, the mining activity in Galicia fulfills the law, precisely the Galician Mining Act of 2008, made by the Bipartite, in which the Industry Council held the BNG. And I want to remind you that, while they ruled, they granted 100 research permits and 43 operating licenses. You're in a continuous and frontal attack at the mining. And you know -- even if I have to tell you again -- that all projects are handled rigorously, according to the applicable legality, and that they offer all the technical, urban and environmental guarantees. Do you want to repeal the Business Initiatives Promotion Act? Why? What bothers you, that it is good for the administrative simplification of companies, that it facilitates access to the ground, that it has economic incentives, that ultimately creates jobs and wealth? Is that why you're upset with that law? Look, I have to tell you the example of Portugal, too, and I am very grateful that Mr. Losada would take you out: "Green light to Europe's largest lithium mine in the Lusa region of Montalegre, 12 kilometres from Oímbra." Too bad I wasn't in Oimbra instead of Portugal! But look at that example of the Block on the Left, or you set an example: "The most important business project in the history of the dry stream already has the good visa of the Government of Portugal." He said: "It is the decisive step towards the launch of an initiative that will involve an estimated investment of EUR 500 million and the creation of around 500 jobs. However, the exploitation will not begin to function immediately, before a thorough environmental impact study will have to be drawn up that will try to minimize the effects on the opening of mining." Have you listened to what I just read? Here they grant the left-wing license before the environmental impact study is conducted. What would happen if we did that in Galicia? Therefore, our law is fully guaranteed. And I'll finish. Look, discarding, you said, the mine project. Well, this is the wild argument. We talked about mining and we used the mine project to try to destabilize and ruin a whole sector. I want you to tell me, tell me about your political hypocrisy. You say the People's Party is still defending the mine. And I'm telling you to tell me a single declaration in parliamentary headquarters where we're in favour. Do you know what our position was? I am going to read it — a non-law proposal of 28 March 2018: "The Galician Parliament urges Junta to evaluate the consequences and circumstances of the San Rafael mining project, located in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, from the total legal guarantee and rigour in the execution of the procedure, so as to safeguard the total regarding the outline, the strict compliance with the applicable legality and to provide all urban, environmental and technical guarantees in the event of approval. Point 2: To ensure compliance with the work plan and follow-up and monitoring of any environmental impact that could occur as a result of the current results of mine exploitation." You voted against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u114	So — and finally, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u116	...in his motion they ask not to respect the presumption of innocence—and we say no—to end with an important productive sector like the miner and to create more unemployment—and we say no—, to put obstacles and difficulties on businesses for their deployment and to generate wealth and jobs—and we say no—and to violate the law, prevent and issue reports arbitrarily—and we say no—. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u117	Thank you. For the motion's own group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u118	Imagine if he didn't have any arguments he had to go through Catalonia. Of course, I went to see political prisoners who are in prison just because they want to democratically decide their country's future. On the other hand, in the Spanish state, "Billy el Niño", a francist torturer, is on the street. [[Applause]] And the corrupt ones, many of the corrupters of their party, are on the street. That's the difference, and I don't want a country like that. But he had to get out of Catalonia because he didn't want to answer specific questions that were read to him in the interpellation and motion. Tell me, answer me! Did they give you permission for the four-month suspension on the procedure, the fourth suspension to the company, in a procedure that we've been on for more than two years? They won't answer, will they? Then, as far as the presumption of innocence is concerned, it doesn't matter what I say here. I asked for Mr. Tahoces' resignation as early as 2018. He wasn't even charged. And I explained here why I asked for it. Look, "Go for the face!" - You said. Home!, for here comes a representative of the People's Party to give lessons in compliance with legality... Home!, the party from which it has been, until very little, strong man from the Italian countryside Mr. Miramontes, who is processed by white trafficking, the party that keeps in the institution to the valet of the people after plugging the niece of Fraga, the party that collects commissions from the companies that benefit by applying the laws or looking elsewhere, as they do in Touro, comes here to give lessons in compliance with the legality. [[Murmurs.]] Very crible, Mr. White Paradelo, very crible! Look, no matter how much he repeats a lie, it won't become true. We're not against the job, nor are we against the mining, so abstract. What we don't normally accept, as you accept, is that, in order for there to be mining, we have to contaminate the streams and we have to pay for the damages that companies leave when they go away, as in Monte Neme. That's your model and we don't want it, of course, because the balance for the general interest is not positive. But for you, it's positive, because you've been in prison for years and years, not with mining workers -- who, by the way, are going down the job in an alarming way, to see if you put the batteries -- but with mining entrepreneurs who violate the law, who pollute and who, in addition, spread the expenses for restoration once they go with the benefits. So neither law enforcement lessons nor mining model lessons. They answer. Mr. Tahoces has to resign only for Touro. We've been 30 years, 30 years!, impurely polluting the environment. They've been polluting impunity in San Fins for 30 years, polluting in Santa Comba for 30 years, polluting in Monte Neme, haven't they? And of the 735,000 euros that will cost the restoration of Monte Neme we're going to pay 95% of the Greeks and the Greeks, because Mr. Cotino, that of Operation Gürtel, the brother of the PP, that Cotino of the PP, because he ran away and he won't pay a weight, he didn't pay a weight. That's the model you're defending, that of corruption and against the general interest. Well, as for Mr. Losada -- and I'm done -- it seems to me very well that what you said about Mr. Candi's advisor for the transition. But I'm telling you, when there's a model whose mining is based on human needs, I'll support it. But the one led by Atalaya Mining and company is only directed by the most savage capitalism. We're going to accept a point in the Socialist Party's addendum amendment, because we don't agree that this project can be viable now. No changes to make, it is not viable. You have to give him a folder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u119	Thank you. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u120	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion by Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez of Galicia's Parliamentary Group of Socialists, on the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece on the schedule of non-university teachers. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group which has not been accepted. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in connection with the schedule of non-university teaching staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 34. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u121	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of the physiotherapy service in the public health system The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is accepted. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the physiotherapy service in the public health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 34. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u122	We are now voting on the European Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the mining, energy, water and waste sectors. The amendment is accepted as described... don't you accept the amendment? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Explain. Give a voice to Mr. Sánchez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u123	Well, nothing but, at our second point, would add the first point of the Socialist Party of Galicia; and the other 26, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u124	The other 26 points, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u125	They don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u126	Then it's only acceptable... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Let me get this straight. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] Mr. Losada?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u127	Yes, I claim my right to put 26 points of amendment. I'd just miss it! [[Applause]] See if they're gonna have something to say to that, too. [[Applause]] No, it wasn't for this. I'm going to ask for a point vote. The first and the fourth on one side, and the second and the third on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u128	Do you accept the point vote? [[Assentment.]] Let us vote first and foremost. Vote of points 1 and 4 of the G.P. Motion. In Marea, on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the mining, energy, water and waste sectors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 34; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u129	We now vote the rest of the points, that is, the 2nd and the 3rd. Vote for points 2 and 3 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. In Marea, on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the mining, energy, water and waste sectors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 34. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the motion's transactional text are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u130	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the third point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the school map of Galicia, the model of school dining rooms and the school transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u131	This proposal has been amended by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u132	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the tranquillity of the People's Party, the non-law proposition we present at the moment does not have 26 points, it has only three points. But we believe that it has a substantial impact on all areas of our education system. First of all, the first point proposes to review and adapt to the real needs of Galicia's school map. We say permanently that there is a lack of a country policy to ensure, firstly, that the rural environment has an education offer that is appropriate for its needs. This parliamentary group has already successfully put forward a non-law proposal in 2017, in September 2017, on the network of centres, in which we propose that a number of necessary mechanisms be put in place immediately to re-definite, in a manner consistent with the educational community, the current network of centres. That non-law proposal did not determine what should be the final horizon of that network of centres, just what we proposed was that a collective debate should be opened because we understand that it is a matter of country. And it is therefore relevant and we must all participate in that debate. This non-law proposal has been rejected, but reality is that, reality repeats course after course. To cite only the problems of starting this last course — not as a series of unrelated events, but as a series of events that have a common element, which is planning, let's say, on the start of the educational supply in certain municipalities — we find ourselves having problems in this course in Cariño, we find ourselves with problems in Portomarín, Covelo, Salceda de Caselas, in Allariz, because the Council decides to apply criteria, firstly, unpublished in some case and always apocryphal; that is, there is no authority to put into effect these measures. But the truth is they're putting themselves into operation. We have cases like that of the Chantada Institutes, where we have the paradox that there are teachers who are making guards while the student is denied the right to study subjects that will curiously be part of after the bachelor's evaluation for access to university — i.e. the new selectivity —. And we were told in committee that students would be offered the possibility of going to another local school or do them remotely. This is the reality we have. We have another reality about what you asked a short time ago, I think I remember, if I'm not mistaken -- and if not, I apologize -- the Nationalist Block of Galicia. And it's that reality compels the student, in some settings of subjects, to run compulsoryly to the matter of Catholic religion. And this is a reality that happens because we have an incorrect adequacy of the facilities of the centers to the needs to provide students with a proper configuration. We have a precariousness of the working conditions of the Greek teachers. I will no longer talk about the timetables, because on this matter we have already discussed extensively in the motion which this parliamentary group tabled this morning and which was debated this morning in this very plenary session. But it turns out that the uncomputed repeater student, the teacher has a high number of related subjects. This parliamentary group has also put forward a non-legislative proposal to introduce to the legislation the calculation of repetitive students, because of course these students are not part of the ether, they occupy space, they occupy the activities of teachers, as is logical. And we also put forward a non-law proposal in February 2017 to regulate the subjects related to the teacher's obligation to impart. Everything, everything was rejected, but the Council itself regulated this course for the election of temporary destinations the subjects pointed out and made that no more than two subjects could be imparted. I mean, when I propose the opposition -- and I remember the words of my colleague Mr. Torrido this morning -- when the opposition makes some sort of initiative, there is some kind of impediment, you don't know whether conceptual, or part of the DNA, that prevents such initiatives from being approved, but the truth is that later they are putting into operation, in motion, measures that the opposition proposed at some point. As a general rule, I said, these squares will not be able to have more than two things. And in the meantime, we have an Education Council dedicated to the implementation of excellent programs, which sometimes frankly one comes to the conclusion that they are elite programs, because they are first trained by a very small number of students, secondly they come to centres with a certain geographic and school transport configuration, and I'm talking about, for example, the Bachelorate of Excellence in Science and Technology, the Bachelorate of Language Specialization. And the last one, ladies and gentlemen, was the occurrence of the Education Council two weeks ago of creating the famous dual vocational training network, in which there are forty-six selected centres, there are forty-six teachers and teachers who will not give a single hour class, because they will be dedicated exclusively to dynamising dual vocational training. But when this parliamentary group asks about dual vocational training, it turns out that there is no problem, everything works as a miracle, we are 20% of the objectives that the Council itself set for 2020, and, when we ask, there is no problem, but that is, they create this dual vocational training network, which, of course, has been advertised, selected and put into operation in 17 days. This is called a lightning file, from an administrative point of view; that is, it's almost done before it starts; which, of course, points to a clear intention on the part of those who put it into operation. The second point refers to the model of school meals for sufficient coverage, with appropriate quality parameters, implementing a model that is sustainable and with the necessary participation of the local government. Here, in the case of school dining rooms, we find ourselves with a new decree of the year 2013, which refers to the amendment of the BNG, which I have submitted to a genuine -- let's say -- coasic in the configuration of school dining rooms, because it has produced important dysfunctions in its application, when it does not eliminate this service to people who needed it to reconcile working and family life. And it produces dysfunctions, first of all, because it doesn't have a normative framework appropriate to its own decree. We know what we are here that this decree has its development in a previous order of the year 2007, and therefore it produces dysfunctions, because logically the 2007 order does not include the 2013 framework, as is logical. I'm not going to quote Darwin -- he did it to the councilman of Fairy in the morning -- but the realities change even though the rules of the Council seem not to. These irregularities of which I am talking about have been added to this course — I am talking about this course — irregularities due to an incorrect, or even not directly provided, provision of the dining room, in the case of the Institute of Basata Silva, Vilalba, affected by the Institute of Big Eyes, Lugo, and so on. True, it is true — and it is necessary to recognize it — that the Council has responded quickly, has concluded contracts with this company, but the fact is that we have to analyze what model we have to produce these consequences, and therefore we will have to reconfigure that model. There are examples of collaboration by the autonomous community that has been in place for many years now, and in particular in 2008, of collaboration between two centres in Sada and the Sada Town Hall and the Education Council that make students who have no right to the dining room, because it is in a centre that does not have school transportation, if they have it in an effective way by going to the other center. I mean, when you want to find solutions, when there's a will, you find yourself, and you can make services available in an absolutely efficient and appropriate way. To finish — because I don't have much time left — we ask that the school transport service be made more efficient and accessible to the student from the rural where he wishes, that he should take postobrigatory education and that he does not have the regular transport service. It's neither the time nor the non-law proposal to discuss the possible collapse of the Galician Public Transport Plan, which has the resources of a group of business associations and also a union organization. But let me just read you a paragraph that puts that Galician public transport plan. He says, "In these cases, the administration that reserves squares must pay the service at a contractual balance rate." But the important thing is that in the case of free transport, it says that the case of compulsory schoolchildren in public centres are those who have guaranteed transport; the rest, those of post-war teachings, have not guaranteed such transport. And, therefore, it will also be necessary to reform the normative plan for this service, so that students — I insist — who, as rural means, are studying postobrigatory teachings have at least guaranteed the right to school transport. We believe that what we ask is all reasonable and that it should count on the unanimous approval of this House, because we insist that it is a country problem, it is not a problem of the Socialist Party of Galicia or of the BNG or of En Marea or of the People's Party; it is of all those people who are outside this Parliament and who vote for each other. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u134	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u135	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. One question before too much, Mr. Álvarez. In fact, the BNG was asking about the situation in which the student in this country is forced to pursue the subject of Religion. The reason this anomaly occurs is because Religion continues to offer itself in the academic curriculum. And I have to tell you it's a shame the Socialist Party doesn't want to review or even break the agreement with the Holy See. They lost an opportunity to start progressing in the necessary — I should almost dare to say that it is indispensable — absolute separation from what is a religious confession that belongs to the private domain and public space. [[Applause]] By going to the question of the points they propose today in their non-law proposal, we agree with the proposals made at the initiative. I will also explain during my speech the amendment that we have defended since BNG, which is not new, we have formulated it on other occasions. We fully agree with the need for the school map to be revised to address the current reality that reaches our country, in demographic terms, in population terms, in terms of what you were talking about, the demographic crisis, which affects mainly the rural areas of our country. But by adding one more argument, not just because of the demographic crisis and rural spaces. We have examples in municipalities that maintain population, or even that grow in population, and in which the situation, the reality of our country's school map fails to meet the needs of these populations. I brought two examples, which are that of Vigo and Culleredo, precisely a school map that does not meet the population reality, especially what it has to do with the offer of public squares and public schools that meet the existing demand. Above all, I insist that these are localities and municipalities that either have or maintain a very high population or have an increase in their population. It gives us situations that cause serious prejudices especially for families and students. It is the case, for example, of Culleredo, that there is an insufficient supply of public education squares, precisely because of the lack of comprehensive and strategic planning that goes beyond the immediate one, of going a little bit of a kill jump to the needs that are occurring in a conjunctural manner. It is the case of Vigo, for example, where we see that there is much more demand than supply, especially from public squares, that what is causing, besides, or, otherwise, the only one that is benefiting from is the private-concerted school. For example, there is not enough public centers in Vigo's urban centre, which directs the families themselves to go to private-concerted. For that reason, and in addition to subscribing the arguments you gave in connection with the necessary adaptation of this school map to the current reality of our country, we understand that there are also, beyond rural spaces, imperative needs that need to be met. Also in relation to transportation, ensuring accessibility especially for those people we have to change from council many times to be able to study not only high school but also the bachelor's degree, or even those people who have to travel a lot of miles in order to be able to go to school for a vocational training course. We know that in particular within the country. And that creates a huge economic bias for families, because many times -- I could put my specific case, and I don't like to particularise -- we had to make a huge effort to be able to study the bachelor's degree, despite the fact that the teaching center was only 17 miles from home, because you don't have regular transportation, bus, and finally you have to go to taxis. And it's not a reality that just happens in a municipality in the middle of Lugo Mountain, but it's found in many more municipalities in our country. The amendment we tabled from the BNG is for the replacement of the second point. We understand that Decree 132/2013 must be repealed, we have claimed it and defended it since its adoption. The privatization and outsourcing model of the People's Party is not the model that defends the Nationalist Block Galego, and we will not tire of continuing to defend returning to the public model, to the public model of direct management, and that only with an exceptional and duly justified character can we resort to other types of models, as foreseen in the Greek legislation prior to 2013. We insist that the dining room is a basic complementary service, which is a right above all in terms of conciliation, but which also has a lot to do with the education of our daughters and our children, so we understand that we need to review the model. But in order to start being able to review it, I believe that it is necessary to recover what was a public service and quality, and that it is now in the hands of companies — which we have so often discussed in Commission 4a — that they are not even guaranteeing minimum quality criteria. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u137	Thank you, President. He said before: when it comes to adding up to recover privatized public services and threatened by the popular offensive, our vows will always be available, as in this case. Just because the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party defends, although we understand that in a not very concrete way, demands that our parliamentary group has put on the table on numerous occasions, so we will vote in favour of them, because it seems to us a starting point of minimums that anyone could assume, but we think they must be the subject of greater concretion, and that is what I want to comment on. In their initiative, for example, at the first point, they say that it is necessary to review and adapt to the real needs of Galicia's school map. Of course, no one should be against something like that. But how does it come about? What do we do with unitary schools, for example? How many teachers and teachers would have to hire? What economic and material resources would be needed? There's nothing on this initiative. The second point is not very specific either. He says, "To review the model of school dining rooms, so that sufficient coverage is achieved, with appropriate quality parameters." No one could stand against something like this, even the People's Party's Government could not recognize to be against it. Who will vote against sufficient coverage or the right quality? The debate for us should consist of that sufficient coverage and that appropriate quality. With regard to the first point, we think it should be completed with at least two nuances. One, with regard to the necessary zoning updated in so many municipalities that demand it; already mentioned here the case of Culleredo or Vigo, and so many others that we could put on the table. And secondly, we should talk about having a medium- and long-term plan to keep rural schools open. Families don't have the fault of the people's evil politics still emptying the countryside. So it's not fair that they're being punished by forcing them to send their children away from home to access education. Last year, for example, the children's education school in Apeadeiro in Cambre was closed; the school in Solveira in Paderne de Allariz - Ourense; a sum and it follows that rural education, which I said this morning, cannot continue to consent. On the other hand, we must also talk about how much we teachers need until we reach at least the levels prior to the crisis, ensuring that the ESO professor, vocational training and special regime will correspond to eighteen hours of weekly school and to teachers and teachers of primary and childhood education, twenty-three. As far as the second point of the Socialist Group's initiative is concerned, we believe that the matter should be addressed in a non-specific proposal, as we have tried several times, but at the moment we would like to add three ideas to the socialist proposal. First of all, the firm bet on the service of direct supply dining rooms, that is, with dining rooms served by the Council's own staff, with kitchens in the centres, a proximity service that really guarantees the highest quality. Secondly, the eaters in the educational centers should give various options, such as the vegetarian menu option, something that the Galician Union has ruled out just a few months ago by denying boys and girls this option. Third, the dining rooms will make available to families real, true and complete information about the products used in the menus and will advise on the most healthy and suitable foods for daily feeding of Galician children and children. Food, health and education, ultimately, the triad that we understand must preside over any debate about the service of dining in Galicia, not saving, saving and saving that the People's Party wants. And on the third point of the initiative, little to add; underline the obvious. Given the dispersion of the people of Galicia, it is necessary to make fincapé in transport, not sucking out, as the People's Party always does by saying how much it is spent, but by seeing if the spending it's affecting is enough to meet all the needs. It cannot be understood, it cannot be accepted that Galician children and children have to leave their educational centres and move to others for the private interests of transport companies. Unfortunately, this is happening, For all this, as I said, we will vote "yes" on the Socialist Party's initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. We are debating a non-law proposal that consists of three points which are three questions which, as we have well pointed out, have already been debated on other occasions. And as you will understand, I believe that the position of each of the groups is perfectly well known, is perfectly defined and I don't see any elements in the present reality that make us change our mind, at least our group. We are convinced that we are defending a model and an educational system that is producing good results, that gives good fruit, and therefore we do not understand or do not see the need to carry out those changes that you are proposing. But in addition, we're going to talk carefully, of course, about all of these changes and the arguments you use, because if I'm allowed to change the order on the argumentative order of the non-law proposition, I'm going to start talking about the theme of the dining rooms, because I'm speaking now Mrs Chao and saying that they defend a firm bet for the service of direct supply dining rooms and... look, we've already talked about it, as I said, on many other occasions. If you rule in municipalities that have the management of dining rooms and do so indirectly, don't come here and say they are definitely betting on direct management. Because basically what you're doing is lying. [[Applause]] So we're not here to lie. You were talking about PP defending only the savings, savings and savings system; so they opt for indirect management. Well, you guys, when you indirectly manage school dining halls, what do you think they're doing, thinking they're giving you a good service to citizenship or thinking about saving, saving, saving, what do you say? I want to assume they do it thinking of giving good service to the citizenry. So -- I mean, when we get up here and we come to talk and defend arguments, it's good that we support those arguments in fact, because if we don't support the arguments in fact, what we do is lie or pretend to cheat. On the network of centers, let's see, you've also been talking about the need to conceive the education system and the map of centers as a dynamic element and as a living element and at the same time it seems like you're asking for static planning. It seems you are asking for a map or a network of long-term centers without taking into account the timely changes that are taking place in the short term. If we want to design the network of centers and the map of centers as a dynamic and living element, we will have to make the necessary changes depending on the needs that exist at every moment. And in that case, who is the competent administration to do so? Obviously, the Council. For the Council, according to the pedagogical criteria, demographic criteria, economic criteria and the sustainability of the system, must take decisions for the reconfiguration of the network of centres. That's what I'm saying: it's a question we've debated up to satiety and I don't see any elements that change this reality. And, moreover, even — I say — I detect a certain contradiction in his words, because one cannot at the same time say that we must understand the network of centers as something dynamic and alive that responds to the needs of citizenship and at the same time proposes that we create a long-term static plan and map that does not respond to those timely needs of every moment. Later on, the question of transport. The subject of transport is also a subject under discussion, perhaps not so much as associated with education but with other areas, particularly in everything that has to do with the Transport Plan and so on. Look, we believe that the transport coverage for citizenship and youth in Galicia is perfectly guaranteed in the compulsory education system, and they are also implemented with the new transport plan and transport plans that take place in Galicia's board measures, such as the Youth Transport Card and others, to ensure free access to transport to under 19 years of age that comply with non-compulsory levels of education. So it's also ensuring the accessibility of all students in the autonomous community to the school transport service. In short, this is what I was telling you at first: that we start from the premise that we consider that we have an educational system that is at the highest level at the national level in everything that has to do with equity parameters, with inclusion parameters, with quality parameters, and accessibility to transport is guaranteed, access to the dining rooms is guaranteed and healthy menus in school eaters are guaranteed quality parameters, and -- you said -- when these quality parameters are not met in contracts, the administration automatically acts, solves these contracts, bids and guarantees a quality in these menus. If things are functioning reasonably well — obviously, there is always a need to improve — there is no need to try to bring here a vision that things don't work well and that there is a revolution in the system. We do not agree in that regard. We believe that, as I said before, a network of centres are guaranteed to ensure the schooling of the whole of Galician citizenship in the public network as well as supported by public funds from educational centres, a model of school eaters that ensures sufficient coverage with quality parameters appropriate to the whole of Galician citizenship and, in addition, a public transport service to schools that also guarantees the accessibility of all students, they will understand that, once again, when these issues are brought to us by giving us a distorted or false view of reality, our vote will not be favourable. So, Mr. Álvarez, let me tell you that we will vote against the non-law proposal. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u140	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u141	Thank you, President. For going by order of intervention, with regard to Mrs. Rodil, I thank her for the support of her group, a little nuance, a clarification. The fact that certain students are forced to pursue Catholic religion is not a problem of the concordance, it's a problem of LOMCE, it's a problem of LOMCE. I mean, we can get into the debate whether religion should be part of the school curriculum or not, but that some students should have to study it necessarily is the problem of that wonder of law which provides for an offer of options that in some cases is greater than the number of students in the schools themselves. That's the reality. With regard to your amendment, we accept it as an addendum if you agree with point 2 of our non-law proposal, because indeed that framework must be exceeded. With regard to Mrs Chao's intervention, of course our non-law proposal can be qualified — and I am not going to debate it — in ambiguity, vague, but we would prefer a space of consensus — which, if it is so concrete too much, can be distorted — to a space in which there is no consensus, which is what surprises us, on the other hand, the position of the People's Party. So I also appreciate your group's support for this non-law proposal. Mr. Fernandez Gil, tell you that there are no new elements. I made you -- let's say -- a little description of what happened at the beginning of this course and it's a reality that all courses are repeated. Of course there are new elements, because, although we have a full Darwinian, of course, there is a living organism that is schooling — by the way, that same living organism that said as an argument to the former education councillor regarding Vigo's zoning. Schooling is a living thing and therefore that document that was to be approved has not been approved for two years; I don't know if it's still alive or it's fresh. But, in any case, no one is asking for a fixed picture. From this contract, what we are asking for is a country agreement between all of us to define how we should adapt to the network of centres each course. You misunderstood it, which is strange to me, because I know your ability. So he came here to make an argumentative. You know perfectly well that I wasn't proposing this, that the non-law proposition isn't going to define a fixed picture, either in children's education, in primary, in secondary, in bachelor's or in vocational training. Of course, what you're going to do is to have some agreements where we can all move in a consensual way and therefore don't strain the school reality of each course. As I have to finish, just on the subject of school transportation, you say it's all working normally. And first of all, there is no guarantee in the current framework that the post-obligatory student has guaranteed a school transport square with the current definition of legitimate user for school transport. And, therefore, there is no guarantee that, for example, Mrs. Rodil, who was transported from Ribeira de Piquin to Meira when she was doing compulsory secondary education, had been guaranteed that same offer of school transport to make a bachelor's degree. That's the reality, because if it's decided that to take students from Ribeira de Piquin to Meira it's enough a bus of ten squares and there's ten students in compulsory secondary school, Mrs. Rodil no longer has transportation. That's the reality that can be given, and you can't deny it and you know I'm telling the truth. I therefore regret the lack of support from the People's Party, but well, we will continue to try, even if we are accused of repeating the same thing many times, because we understand that this is a truly important problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u142	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da. Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira and six other Members, on the beginning of the Government of Galicia in 2019, on the recruitment of construction projects, as well as the drafting of the environmental impact report, the third The Poor of San Xiao-Nadela from the high-performance route Lugo-Monforte de Lemos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u143	Is San Xiao-Nadela all right? I don't want to say a bad name and maybe in a story like this... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are amendments to the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u144	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. I also greet the people who accompany us in the public of Sarria and the Incio. The proposal brought to this plenary meeting by the People's Group has to do with improving the functionality of a vial which is crucial for communications in southern Lugo. In recent years it has been believed that the improvement of roads, both existing roads and the creation of other new maps, is a very clear bet for territorial rebalancing, for the vertebration of Galicia's interior, which has been a priority objective of the Greek Government. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, in particular in this case, the high-performance route between Lugo and Monforte, an alternative to the LU-546 road which culminated in November 2015 and which allowed to prevent the multiple access to this road also to the centers of the towns and villages that are on their route. Let me at this point value and highlight the important investor effort that was made to complete a high-performance vial at a time of crisis, in which 135 million euros were invested and which ended in a first phase between Sarria and The Incio in 2012, a second between Boveda and Monforte in 2015 and soon thereafter Incio will return also in 2015. A very important milestone in the vertebration of southern Galicia. And we say it's an important milestone because it has greatly improved road safety and travel times between Lugo and Monforte, which were located from that moment on in just over forty-five minutes. And it was such a decisive step, ladies and gentlemen, that from that moment on the traffic was fired between Lugo and the second county council, being the increase in traffic of vehicles far above the averages, both Welsh and provincial; an average of seven thousand and six hundred vehicles daily was what had been in the most density section of this vial last year. And so this believes that we have to keep going and that we have to keep moving forward in improving the connectivity of southern Lugo. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Government of Greece is doing: working to increase the functionality of this vial, through precisely the conversion by the highway of the high-provision track between Sarria and the Poor of San Xiao — Mr President, that is the correct statement: between Sarria and the Poor of San Xiao. A conversion that was the object of a long neighbouring demand but which was the subject of a commitment by the People's Party collected in the electoral program with which we competed for the last autonomous elections in 2016. A conversion into the highway which will undoubtedly represent one before and one after the mobility of the companies, of the neighbors, for the road safety of the districts of Sarria, of Lemos, of Quiroga, ultimately for the whole south of Lugo. And, in view of this commitment, early in 2017, the Agency Galaga de Infrastructuras began hiring the project of the environmental impact mapping and also the construction project of this first phase of the deployment of the high-performance route between Nadela and Sarria, specifically in the third section between the Poor of San Xiao and the Central Sarria. A unfold which was already contemplated in the initial project and designed and executed from the beginning of this action and which therefore foresees not only this action in the structural conditions of its viaducts but also the demos, even everything corresponding to the structures, to accommodate this future expansion of the platform, and also the necessary expropriations in much of the plot. This will undoubtedly facilitate the conversion work to the highway and simplify and minimize the conditions of traffic while carrying out these decoupling works. And why do they start in this frame? Well, then the Union is beginning to unfold this third, about ten kilometers, between the Poor of Saint Xiao and Sarria-centro — and I am also referring to the amendments that have been tabled — precisely because it is the way in which this enlargement has been detected that it is most needed. Also by the orography of that plot itself, because it has important pens, it reduces speed, and it's very difficult and complicated, and those of us who live around it know that it's quite difficult to advance. And so, also, because, as I told you before, if traffic increases justify the conversion of this high-performance highway by highway, because it has to be borne in mind that between 2016 and 2017 it was a traffic much higher than that of LU-546, much higher than that of the increase that the entire autonomic network suffered, because the choice of this start by the stretch between Lugo and Sarria for this truce also has to do with the increase in traffic, because in this section it concretely exceeds the seven thousand vehicles daily, while as we move away from the city of Lugo, and therefore in Sarria or Monforte, that traffic decreases. So what's going on? If this is the engagement, what is the Government doing? For in June 2018, ladies and gentlemen, the project of the decoupling plot in this truce was subjected to public information, also to the relationship of goods and rights, so that all stakeholders could make their claims and come close. That announcement marked as the object of the action the collapse of the corridor in this frame, contemplated that it was a parallel path on the left margin in the direction of the Poor Sarria and indicated that the construction of this new infrastructure would improve the safety conditions, the convenience of vehicles, which would represent a remarkable increase in the capacity of service levels and a very important improvement — that is, of road safety and that would therefore represent a significant decrease in the number of accidents in this third. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're not talking about something virtual, we're not talking about something that just stays in mind, in the realm of ideas, but that this unfolding is already underway, it's already started in Junta the environmental process of this first phase last February. And even in order to speed up the deadlines, it provides for a four-month study period for environmental assessment, it provides for the final approval of the project of the layout to public information around the summer, so that, once the expropriatory process is initiated in the second half of the year, all available for the works to be lawful this same year in that section between The Poor of San Xiao and the center of Sarria, with an approximate investment, ladies and gentlemen, of twenty-three million euros. This is the schedule and, therefore, these are the forecasts that the Government of Greece handles in relation to this important infrastructure, this breakdown of the route of high benefit, which will undoubtedly represent — and we all know what represented the conversion or the fact that we have had a route of high benefits between Lugo and Monforte and the impact that I had – as I said earlier, one before and one after the neighbors, for businesses, and therefore will have a major impact on the economic and social environment of southern Lugo. This will believe a new impulse. Therefore, the German Government is acting with agility, with diligence, and is working at this pace. Well, the question may then be what it wants to move forward with this initiative. Well, we believe, from the Popular Group, that one more step must be taken in view of this clear Treaty of Galicia. We want them to be taking steps in this time that they are working to bid for the works and that they can start this coming year, but we want them to work on other truces as well, and therefore our proposal goes on to the line that we are moving forward in the drafting of the undeployment project of the rest of the plot, that is, what goes from Nadela to Sarria, and this year 2019 specifically from The Poor of Saint-Jiao to Sarria. To what end? Well, so that you can materialize the complete conversion of this vial into a highway as soon as possible. What we propose to you in our initiative, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Union should begin its recruitment this year of 2019 of the construction and environmental impact projects of the Third The Poor of San Xiao-Nadela in order to make final progress in the total deployment of this infrastructure. This, ladies and gentlemen, will undoubtedly be crucial for the communications of all the southern neighbours of the province of Lugo. And we believe that, as the Government of Greece is acting in a manner — as I said before — that is, diligent and effective to promote this development, it can move forward administratively in another way so that, when the works of this one, which are now being processed, are ready to be carried out, we have already advanced in the next stage and so we can all see before, sooner than later, this road that will definitely unite Place with Sarria. So we look forward to the support of the rest of the groups for this People's Group proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u147	Good afternoon again. Thank you, President. Welcome, too, to all the people who accompany us at the guest banquet. We tabled an amendment, Mrs. Rodríguez, and I would also like to make a little memory. To make a little memory is to make a little trip to the past collectively of this House, because, listening to Mrs. Rodríguez, everyone would say that the highway you're talking about or around which the People's Party initiative revolves because we started talking about it five or six years ago and that it actually ended up connecting Nadela and Sarria, and that's not so. We tabled an amendment because we believe that the People's Party's initiative is late — I will now explain why I say it's late — and then it results in the Clearly insufficient Galician Nationalist Block. Indeed, what you've been talking about for many years in this country is a highway connecting Lugo and Monforte, Lugo and Monforte. And I say that the People's Party's initiative is late, and it is also clearly insufficient, because on the promises of the People's Party — and we are going to start this little trip to the past — you were talking about the last electoral program with which the PP has run the elections. Ui!, but it's just that you arrived at the Government of Galicia in 2009; then they also had an electoral program; in 2009 in the electoral program, easily accessible thanks to new technologies, the People's Party promised to drive Nadela-Sarria, in the first phase, for the year 2011; this first phase of that Nadela-Sarria highway, in 2011, was spoken of 30.6 kilometers, 30.6 kilometers. Later on, when the People's Party drafted the so-called MOVE Plan, it had already been slightly lowering its expectations and then it was already in 2015 that road Nadela-Sarria. What's the reality today?, so that we don't get too sloppy in that look at the past, what's the reality in 2019? To a large extent, Mrs Rodríguez had already explained it, since the work of the first 11.5 kilometres of this deployment would not start until 2020. In the first stretch, which is not even what you were committed to do in 2009, these works will not begin until 2020; it will be only eleven kilometers that have to join the Poor of St.Jiao with the Center Sarria. And you were talking about agility and diligence, Mrs. Rodríguez. Agility and diligence when ten years ago they were committed to it was that the first phase would be in 2011, which would also go from Nadela to Sarria-centro. That's why we say it's absolutely late. It comes absolutely late and then, after that, because in that public exhibition bidding process to start those works from what will be the Sarria-centre-The Poor of St. Xiao the Town Hall of Sarria, for example, already made an approach. The only amendment to the BNG, the only amendment to this public exhibition process, the Sarria Town Hall, had already asked that the connection between Nadela and Sarria be made at that first stage, that first initial phase which was the connection between Lugo and Sarria. And for us, and in view of his initiative, that was not taken into account. It comes late and, moreover, it is clearly insufficient — I insist — because the highway that has been compromised for many years — it has been talking about that Lugo-Monforte bus at least since 2004, 2004 — and what was announced the bomb and dish eternally as an electoral promise again and again is that Lugo would connect with Monforte. That the total unfoldment, that is what you propose in your initiative, in the last sentence: "in order to make definitive progress in the total deployment of this infrastructure.", the total unfoldment goes by converting the set of the Lugo to Monforte corridor into a highway, as was promised — I insist — in a repeated and recurrent way in recent years. That's why in our amendment, what we're doing is covering the whole of this high-performance route or the corridor that connects the city of Lugo with the city of Monforte. We understand that that would be what could, in some way, respond to that agility and the diligence with which we understand that I should work on the board of Galicia. Because I have something that I fully agree with you, Mrs. Rodríguez, and is that it is a key infrastructure for the territorial vertebration of our country and above all for the territorial vertebration of the southern province of Lugo, as needed as it is for investments in infrastructures, which enable us to continue to develop and improve the social, economic and demographic situation of our inner regions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u149	Thank you, President. Good afternoon also to the neighbors of Lugo who accompany us this afternoon. Without me taking it as a lack of courtesy, I'm going to make a couple of remarks to Mrs. Rodil, who seems to be dynamic this afternoon. You're also looking at using the popular party's electoral program as a reliable document! It looks new in the company. This is really funny. [[Applause]] And this initiative, Mrs Rodil, is not late, this initiative comes in time, because this initiative is for the autonomous elections of the year 2020, and therefore arrives at the right time. Mrs. Rodríguez Barrera... Excuse me? Sorry, I'm sorry, Barreira — we were a bit exquisite with the pronouncement, but well, it's fine — Mrs Rodríguez Barreira, a few days ago you defended in Commission 2 a non-law proposal also a bit curious about the end of the A-54 between Lugo and Santiago where you asked it to be finished all year 2020, although you know perfectly — and if you don't know it, the former Minister of Training Iñigo de la Serna told you — that this was impossible, because there are arrangements that are at about 10% execution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now you come with this initiative, which we amend on the same line as the Galego Nationalist Block; that is, you have to completely unfold that corridor between Nadela and Monforte, and not the dogs, not the dogs. It turns out that this morning we attend that debate which, as Mr. Losada Álvarez likes to say to my colleague, is kind of a theoretical construct. But this is an unintelligible construct. Of this surplus, of those one hundred thirty million who are not but who are, who are forty-eight this year and another forty-eight this year next year, the other thirty who come from don't know where, what's going on? What touched the rock in this deal to make that little doll between Nadela and the Poor St. Xiao? And now you come and present this non-law proposition, because you know that there will be funds you don't know where, in addition, it turns out that curiously from the Galaga Infrastructure Agency if nothing more and nothing less than thirty-two million euros from Chapter VI for new work, which will stop elsewhere. Where are they gonna get the funds to do this? Or are they going to put a small amount -- what do I know?, a million euros or something? -- just as they did for this stretch between the poor of San Xiao and Sarria for the constructive environmental impact study? Man, the truth is, you say pretty things on your initiative. They're talking about a budget game. No, man, no. What there has always been is chips, they are chips; one in 2017, another in 2018, another in 2019,, and the previous ones, they all, put: conversion into the highway of the Nadela-Sarria corridor, complete, Nadela-Sarria, and it turns out that in 2017 there was a total of 16,250,000 euros on the sheet — not on the budget line — and that same amount appeared in 2018, it appeared something more increased in 2019 to give coverage to that million, which is what appears to be in the budgets, which is that it will cost the decoupling project between The Poor of San Xiao and Sarria, and so on. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows some documents.]] I insist: this initiative comes in time, because it is an initiative that is prepared for the elections of the next year, and this despite the fact that a study has just been published in which, according to a certain business organization — which I do not have to advertise at this time — is the province of Lugo, Galicia, to which less budget has devoted itself to investment in public works. So let me tell you now that you're going to do this study and that you're going to break up that corridor plot looks very nice, I think it's great, because I think it's necessary. I share the arguments — it is done — which you and Mrs Rodil have used, because those we are from Lugo and we use that corridor very often we know that there are things that are like this, we know that the plot between Nadela and Sarria is particularly slow if you reach a heavy vehicle, because it has very high slopes. We fully agree, we fully agree that it must be unfolded to put an end to that isolation. But, well, I think you should accept our amendment, which, I insist, is the same as that of the Galego Nationalist Block, because I honestly believe that the neighbours of the Incio, of Boveda, even those of Quiroga, even those who are in transit towards the Street, the Valdeorras Boat, by the national 120, deserve to have a connection from and to the sufficiently and with category and security like the rest of the users who arrive from Lugo to Sarria. So we understand that there will be no problem that you will generously accept our amendment, because I'm sure you will find the amount you need to be able to carry out that development. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u150	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u151	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. They said Mrs. Rodil and Mr. Álvarez that the proposal is insufficient and they also talked about where the money is going to be drawn, and that's what my intervention is going to be about, because the root problem is the budgetary insufficiency that is to be applied in the Welsh infrastructures, and that's why we introduced an amendment to reverse the cuts that the People's Party is applying in the investment on the Welsh roads, and in this way the total collapse and full highway of Lugo to Monforte, and I think that the various amendments can get a whole thing that can solve the problem. And then we'll see if the People's Party really intends to take this path and improve the vertebration of the interior or if it just stays on a propaganda and advertising initiative. We, of course, are not against the proposal brought by the People's Party, but seem insufficient. We are against it is to distribute the electoral migales while the underlying problem of the Galician road network, which may seem to be worth it to the People's Party, which lacks ambition to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, but for us it's not enough. In Galicia we have many problems related to our network of roads, little investment and irrational, and we don't solve these kinds of initiatives by distributing the crumbs. The lack of sufficient investment, both by Fômento and by Junta, has made our road network insufficient, unsafe and uncompetitive. That is the result of the policies that have been made since different administrations in this regard. And that's what needs to be changed, the underlying problem, the investment, the lack of investment in our road network. From the state there was a paralysis in road investment, in the last decade, with a continued decline in budgets, and with most of those budgets devoted to the construction of AVE to Madrid, completely abandoning the rest of the investments in infrastructure, which has resulted in an absolute abandonment of the network of state-owned roads and railway infrastructures, which are the most important for economic and social development. Those are the investments that prioritizes responsible administration. The Galician Union, also during this time, has applied a very important cut in investments in the network of its competitors. And this answers two fundamental questions: a reduction in budgets due to the neoliberal departure of the financial crisis, the cut-off, the austereness, and the absurd proposal of the People's Party that every Welsh and every Greek have a high-capacity track next to the house, which does not progress either. An absurd proposal because no administration would be able to propose such a thing. We just have to take a look at all the countries around us like no one, absolutely no one, is doing this. It does not respond to a rational vision, it is not thought of since the efficiency of investment with respect to its relationship to the development of the country, but to a political-entrepreneurship environment in which large builders have a very important role, as we can know by numerous reports and conclusions of state security bodies and judges, who speak of a model of corruption that has been erupting our resources for many years. Great works, with oversized budgets, who have paid festivals of corrupt and corrupters and who have paid political campaigns. But it's just that, today, with a growing economy, we still have that budget failure. With the same GDP as before the crisis, we have 40% less investment in road development and maintenance in Galicia. And there's the problem. If there's no money to do the work, because the works obviously cannot be carried forward, and we end up bringing initiatives and sharing crumbs, to see where and to which neighborhood I can convince a little more now towards the municipal elections, but we don't solve the root problem. I want to establish this context to show that, if we have a serious problem on the Greek roads, if they are insufficient, if they are unsafe, they do not dissolve by bringing these kinds of initiatives. We must be more ambitious to improve internal vertebration and to improve the right to mobility and economic and social development in Galicia. And to have the infrastructure we need, safe and sufficient infrastructure, we need to increase the budgets devoted to maintaining and creating roads, because I don't know how you think about improving our road network by cutting off the road investment year after year. It's not possible, this can't be done. With fewer budgets, we have less performances on our roads. So we introduced this amendment, which aims to reverse the cuts in the budget splits devoted to the maintenance and construction of roads. As you know, from 2009 to 2019 there is a cut of 39.75 % of heading 512B, of construction, conservation and exploitation of roads. And even this last year, when we've been growing for several years, from 2018 to 2019, there's a 1.12% cut. So, you stop bringing localist initiatives and trying to please the neighborhood of an area and increase the budgets for the creation and maintenance of roads and stop cutting them, because that's the only way they'll stay in words and you won't be able to do these works. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u152	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm so sorry that this is really seeing everything in the electoral key, as the Socialist Party said. No, look, this is a reality, this is a commitment. I'm not going to answer to the Socialist Party about incomplete electoral commitments, because I wouldn't get the time, not even adding up to the first intervention. We're talking about something else, we're the other thing, we're improving the connectivity of the southern neighbours of Lugo, and we're doing it. [[Applause]] I'll try to follow the order of your speeches. As far as Mrs Rodil is concerned, she says it's late and it's insufficient. Well, I don't know if you know that between 2009 and 2012, in which the first stretch of the truce between Sarria and Monforte opened, there were changes in layout. But I don't know if you know, in addition, that we have a very important crisis, where, in addition to infrastructure, the Greek Government had to meet other needs, which you come here to claim permanently. You certainly know, because you were also responsible — and I will always remind you — of those budgets that supported Mr Zapatero, and therefore listen! I will not fail to remind you. [[Murmurs.]] But look, as far as the Socialist Party is concerned, Mr. Álvarez says that where they're going to come from, that we're touched by the rock, that where they're going to get the money. Well, look, from the funds of Mr. Sánchez's government not, because he does, with the punishment of Mr. Sánchez's budgets to Galicia, it was like you came here to question the budgets of the province of Lugo do Goberno galego. Really, Mr. Álvarez, you must have courage, uh, you must have courage! [[Applause]] Look, you say you have to look at the layout, and it's you who are presenting the initiatives, the amendments in that sense in relation to Lugo-Monforte. Look, I'm from Monforte, and therefore, as I will be against that unfolding itself, indeed, and that the neighbours of Sarria to Monforte also have the option to have a way of these characteristics? But you know what's going on? When you run a work of these features you have to start somewhere; you yourself, when you started the high-performance course, opened the Lugo-Sarria plot. So you can't do everything at the same time, you have to step by step. And that's up to you, but you come here to make this claim that why you don't do everything. Well, you don't do everything because all the infrastructures of these features are done by following a few steps, a few phases, and you know that perfectly. We therefore have the best willingness to reach a compromise with regard to its amendments to that future unfolding of the Sarria-Monforte framework. And I'm going to dedicate myself to En Marea in the last few moments. Look, I find it truly impressive, impressive, that you come here to talk about cuts when the departures for road safety, for maintenance and improvement of the roads of the German Government in the last budget rose by 30%. But you still have to have more courage to be the ones who proposed that kind of amendment, when you, year after year, in the budgets of the Galician Government Board, present amendments that reduce the budgets of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. Last year, 40%; this year, in the 2019 budget, 59%. If you were to reduce those accounts that you propose in the budgets of the Union, surely neither this infrastructure nor many others could be carried out. And you come here saying you don't cut yourself. But let's see! But with what moral authority, if you yourself ask for these cuts every time the budgets are presented? So we're not going to accept your amendment, but because of a question that seems absolutely inconsistent to us that those who systematically ask for the budget cuts in infrastructure come here to demand precisely an amendment which, by the way, has nothing to do with this specific question that we are considering, that it is no more than that progress is being made and that while the work is being done administratively the works begin in the year that comes from this collapse of the route of high benefits between the poor of St. John and Sarria, which continues to work precisely to advance also in the third of the poor of Lugo. And you come here with an initiative that is more specific to the budgets, an amendment, and which is not supported, because it is absolutely inconsistent with what you yourself propose when discussing the budgets of the Galician Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u154	Thank you. [[Applause]] About the amendments? About the BNG and PSOE amendment? I didn't understand if you accepted them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u155	Yes, we'll try to reach some agreement, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u156	That's right. Thank you. Next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia, as well as the establishment of a new industrial electricity tariff for the electrointensive industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u157	There is a self-amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u158	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, good afternoon. Recalling, in the past full of the Greek Parliament, we generally addressed the crisis that is currently being experienced by the Galician industry, particularly the electro-intensive industry. So we were accompanied in the gallery by workers and Alcoa workers—who from here we also want to send a warm greeting, even if they cannot accompany us. And they were waiting to hear from the German Government something firm in the face of the crisis they're going through. On the contrary, what they received from the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor was rather a pre-election rally in advance of the general elections. We see the results didn't work out very well. We, trusting them to get caught, today we've come to put here in this House what was missing in their day to the Galician Union, which is responsibility and planning to see what to do with this crisis, in particular, of Alcoa. I want to remember that over the past few months we have been debating this issue on many occasions, and that even the Nationalist Block in Galicia in which it is about legislation has come to present up to two bills on the energy and industrial sector proposing a stable industrial tariff for our country. In addition, we understand that, as a producing community, we should have some kind of competitive advantage. Since then the German Government has been giving in to their positions. He came to recognize that it was a problem in this country the price of energy. He has come to recognize it but he has not taken the next step, which is to assume that it is absolutely indecent that in a country that exports about 35% of the average energy to the rest of the state continue to close companies for the price of energy. We don't give up, because it's not just the BNG, it's also the company committees, it's also the business associations in the sector, like Asime, and it's whatever looks at the sector. And the truth is we have a fundamental problem, which is that legal framework built by the various presidents of the People's Party — first Aznar in 1997, then Rajoy in 2013. That, by the way, will leave them a Welsh electric fare this 2019 with the impact of the territorial supplements that will affect us all and all. Imagine what you can assume of negative impact added to what is the main consumer in this country, which is Alcoa. [[Applause]] In any case, the question is that the instability of this system and the complicity that the People's Party had in it left us a very delicate situation, with Alcoa's announcement already in October. And we understand that at this time there are many reasons to maintain concern, because the fact is that during these months, although in the speeches of the People's Party we were told that they were important to dialogue, he did not just shut up as we would have liked or as he would have liked the social part, which he repeatedly asked to tell himself his opinion. In any case, the summary of the situation is that we are at a critical moment, which also lets — you have to say — a role on the part of the State with which we have been very critical and critical since the BNG. Because, first, they've been messing with that status of electrointensives for months; then we saw a draft which at all satisfies us and that we — as well as other collectives and political parties — also amended; and then, above all, in theory, we would approve that last Friday of election campaign and we saw how it finally didn't come out. The truth is, for us this is a symptom of concern, because we understand that if it didn't come to light then it would be because it might not bring us too positive news. In any case, time is advancing. Yesterday there was a new follow-up meeting of this situation in Madrid, and the only thing we have in mind is that the CO2 aid will rise to the maximum that allows the European Union. But that, although it's something positive, we understand that it's not going to be the determinant for Alcoa to give up the possibility of closing, or for some investor to take a step forward. We know there are nine possible investors interested, but that's a possibility, not a certainty, that we've got in the middle of it. And, therefore, we understand that at this critical moment there must be heights of sight; and at that "three heights of look", we must think of a plan "b." Because, what happens if next July 1st, which is the limit we've marked, there's no buyer, what happens if there's no buyer that day? Let's take it, we'll cry, and we'll give a press round saying we're sorry and sorry? We understand that we can expect another question from both the German Government and from this Parliament, and that this moment requires seriousness, planning and putting all the alternatives on the table. And when we say "all" we all say without exception, also by studying the alternative of public procurement, because we play a lot: 400 more auxiliary jobs in the Coruña; and we also have to talk about San Cibrao. We know that over the past few months this threat has been added and that uncertainty has been added to the plants of the Navy. If the aluminium complex in the Brain employs more than 500 people, the aluminium complex makes this industrial complex turn the 1,200 workers, which reaches more than 2,000 if we also consider this whole auxiliary industry. So this would be a death sentence for several counties in our country, and it's not time to get profiled. And while the Government of the People's Party of Galicia was merely criticizing and breathing relieved because there was someone in Madrid who put the blame on him, because there was someone who did his job. And today this I have here is a report that, driven by the Glaga Interunion Confederation — this union that gives allergy to the Government group but which is the majority in Galicia and majority in the sector —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u160	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u161	...he worked hard, hard, and seriously at the University of Coruña. And it has a very clear conclusion: it assesses the legality and viability of the public acquisition of factories through SEPI. So we understand that this is an alternative that we have to put on the table, that we have to study and that we have to be prepared if it is necessary. We're not asking for anything from the other world. And this doesn't mean we're giving up the other demands. We continue to insist on a number of issues today: that the failure to comply with those agreements which we have given ourselves on 23 October should be rectified; that we should continue to insist on incorporating the social part into that table of electrointensives and actually generate a broad consensus in the sector; that the background framework should continue to be changed — as was said at the beginning of my intervention — and that an industrial tariff should be established in time and that it should also be subject to investment obligations and labour maintenance obligations; and that we should continue to insist — and, of course, we will not give up on that — that our country should have a different treatment in these fees and charges. But today, above all, we want to seek consensus in this House on the question of the possibility of public procurement; I insist that we consider this possibility, because the question is that we have to have those mechanisms prepared by, if there are no buyers, that there is a way out. Right now, we don't know when that electrointensive status is gonna be on top of the table. Right now the Central Government says that in June, but the truth is, we've heard that before. And we understand that we have to be predicted and predicted if at the end of June that status did not see light and therefore there may be a disincentive factor for those potential investors. So, if that happens, something that is not strange, interventionist and that has never been seen in a country of the European Union, for example, as is public procurement. The Spanish Constitution itself — which is both named in this Parliament — in its Article 128(2) recognises the public initiative in the economy on an equal footing with the private sector as a legal and possible mechanism, under the aims of utility and public interest. The report I mentioned earlier literally indicates that it is perfectly valid in constitutional terms that public authorities directly undertake commercial or industrial activities when such intervention is justified on grounds of duly accredited public interest. We think they are. I've talked about employment, I've talked about the need for industrial pulse, and we could add the strategic nature of the aluminium industry in this country's economy. This study also explores the possibilities and possible limits that Community law might have, because in the end it is the one who is most in charge of these issues, but it collects how it would be perfectly viable to acquire private business assets under normal market conditions and that this would not be regarded as state aid. It would therefore not only have the consent of the European Union, but it would even have to ask for permission. And we have experiences that we've already mentioned on other occasions, but it's just that chance wants us even to have a close experience in Italy with Alcoa itself. We have the experience of Portovesme, Italy, with the same sector and the same company. So today we want to insist once again on this issue. We have been in the seven months in which this debate is repeatedly escaped, covered and looking elsewhere. We want to appeal today to prudence and planning and simply to the Central Government that, in case there is no solution to this situation in Alcoa, these public procurement mechanisms are activated. And we ask the Board to commit and cooperate with this. There is a possibility of further economic studies and other studies that promote this possibility if there is no other remedy left. I'm done, Mr. President. I hope in June we have a solid alternative to guarantee Alcoa jobs in our country. I wish this was unnecessary. But today we want to make a call to that prudence, not to shut down any sort of possibilities and be prepared and prepared to make the brave decisions that must be made next July 1st to safeguard the future of Alcoa in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, after seeing the debate of the candidates for the Spanish Government's presidency the other day and now, the Spanish Constitution is about to become a best seller, which I personally find satisfactory. [[Murmurs.]] We present — and I begin with the amendments to finally leave the subject more or less closed — two substitution amendments. Point 3 is about the Sectoral Table of the Electrointensive Industry of Galicia. We understand they have to be all the economic and social agents concerned, without any doubt; we have seen it keeping it from the beginning. And in the case of point 5, we understand that changes in electricity tariffs have to be linked to certain stress systems rather than territorial issues. It is a long, prolific debate about what we have been talking about in this Parliament for a long time, but we understand from the outset that it is. And probably in the same way as the new average voltage rate 6.2, which is true that most of Euskadi's industries — although not only — would have to explore the possibility that tariffs affecting electrointensive or ultra-electrointensive industries can also be modified on that line. And on this question is where the Government of Spain is located. On the one hand, it was guaranteed that electro-intensive status, which has to pass the filter of the National Market and Competition Commission. And, of course, in this committee's report there are, in fact, a number of repairs — as you might say in some way — in terms of the consideration of State aid. Of course, we would also like it to be possible at this moment to develop it now, without any doubt, but we are concerned about a flight ahead of time which would then entail significant costs in terms of complaints to this issue in international courts of any kind. And we know that, unfortunately, this can happen. So, indeed, we have this temporary limitation right now. The commitment of the Government of Spain to follow forward is there. We're in time to negotiate. I don't share that partial pessimism of the voicer of the Nationalist Block Galego. And, of course, this first measure of aid via CO2 goes from 91 million to 200 million euros, because it stops, at least temporarily. The Socialist Group is fully aware, and the Government too, that we are not talking about that electro-intensive package that would allow stability in terms of future investments, that we believe it to be a central element — so we said it when we rule the People's Party and we continue to say it. Any company needs to have a regulatory stability scenario, and in this case, taking into account the weight of the energy price, because without any doubt. I'm more concerned about the role of the People's and the Government's Party in this whole problem. I am concerned, firstly, about the role of the People's Party, because I want to say here again the six fundamental elements of Mr Rajoy's energy policies: a clear alienation of the goals of combating climate change, a strong attack on renewable energies, a loss in the country's technological leadership positions, facing multimillionaire international claims — four billion euros — in international courts, an average increase above the European average of energy prices for businesses and families, and — yes — growing benefits for the companies of the electric oligopoly. And this context is the context in which Mr Feijóo is allowed to teach what must be done in the field of energy, when he, within the scope of his competences, does absolutely nothing. I ask you to have the patience of reading Galician Budgets' Memory, where there are the targets that are looking for these budgets in relation to the energy issue; absolutely nothing of that appears in the political discourse of the People's Party when we talk about Alcoa. [[Applause]] It gives the feeling that Alcoa, instead of being in the Coruña, is in Jupiter; it gives the feeling that he is literally in Jupiter. Yes, Mr. Feijó, as always, helping. It's like that of "which falls Spain, that we'll already lift it up," or that of "the party's over," not saying "the fuck up". It is part of this global knowledge context of the People's Party of clear solidarity with the problems of the country. [[Applause]] Feijóo accuses the Sánchez government of "no" having "interested" in presenting a statute for electrointensives. Alert that Alcoa plants in Galicia are "in the air". "Feijo says that there is almost no possibility of maintaining the Alcoa template."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u164	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u165	Mr. Alberto Nadal had the cuddle—Alberto Nadal was the Secretary of State of Energy who had those six successes of what he was talking about before; well, he and Minister Soria, who was the one of the free luxury suite in the Dominican Republic, a small unimportant detail—to propose to overcome the one hundred and fifty million subsidies to the electrointensives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u167	I mean, this whole absolute panorama of putting sticks on the wheels to the measures that the Government of Spain can develop to help Alcoa is what the People's Party of Galicia and Mr. Feijóo are doing exactly by a few votes, on this subject as in many others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u168	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u169	And fortunately also, the citizens start to realize, and they have sixty-six in Madrid and they have nine in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u170	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u171	Good afternoon. Well, let's welcome that BNG self-amendment in which, for the first time, rate 6.2 calls it 6.2; it's fine. No, but in your amendment too, at point 5... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u172	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u173	Okay, sorry; I'm confused. [[Laughter]] Well, because really the GNP was out of line. We have to move forward and really, because there's a month and a half left; that's the reality. There's a month and a half left if there's paths to solution. That is, if we think that the 200 million euros that Mr. Sánchez's Government is currently promising to approve with the Government in functions or even, even if the new Government is not made up, they are essential. I think it's important and companies will take it into account. For that, Mr. Losada, you transmit to the Minister of Ecological Transition and to the Minister of Industry who actually brings to some council of ministers the actual distribution of EUR 200 million. Because we know the experience: in 2017, the People's Party distributed six when the European Union allowed to distribute ninety; in 2018, the People's Party put one hundred and fifty million — very well! — when the European Union allowed one hundred and seventy-five, and the Socialist Party's lords dropped by ninety, incomprehensiblely. Then Mr. Sánchez's 2019 budget went down even further: thirty, incomprehensible as well. If you're in favour of the big industry in Spain, it's quite incomprehensible. Now they promise to raise it to two hundred, to the limit that the European Union allows for this year, perfect! Let's hope that by June 15 this will be effective so that companies do not really have the temptation to close. This is 200 million. Then we don't agree with point 4 of the BNG PNL because we believe that the breaks don't have to be suppressed. The breaks must truly be a technical demand adjustment service, and they will be more and more necessary as the contribution of renewable production increases. What they have to have is a reasonable cost so they don't impact on the economy of the rest of consumers. We calculated that a reasonable cost could be another two hundred million euros. Given that the total consumption of electrointensive companies is 43 teravats/hour, i.e. 40 million megawatts/hour, all these incentives amount to EUR 9.3 per megawatts/hour, i.e. this would lower the wholesale price around the fifty-two euro the megawatts/hour, with respect to the sixty-two, sixty-four or sixty-six which is in most days. But that's not enough: we would be ten or twelve euros above their fares in Germany and France, and let's not say of the thirty-two they have in Norway. So what should we do? So what we have to do is what they had already prepared, which I learned last week from a filtration of these -- I don't know, maybe everyone knows. Mrs. Teresa Rivero had already prepared the decree to establish what In Marea has been asking for two years, which is to take out the hydraulic production and nuclear production of the daily auction pull. It had been totally drafted, but the lobbies of the Socialist Party and the People's Party that are in the councils of the big electricians were thrown directly into his neck, and that's how it was. And we know who the lobbys are: Mr. Aznar and Mr. González. They told him that where this crazy radical terrorist was going, he wanted to take more than two billion profits from the electricians. Well, that barbarity is what France did when energy was liberalized, and that's what France did to protect its industry, which is the famous fee ARENH — finished at H — Regular Access to Historical Nuclear Energy. Well, in Marea it proposes an ARENHH rate, with two Hs: Regular Access to Historical and Hydraulic Nuclear Energy. Why? Because the nuclear power stations in Spain and the hydraulic power plants in Spain — and above all the Greeks — are totally amortized, and this would only lower the energy price below the EUR 40 or around the EUR 40. And that can be done directly with a royal decree; a royal decree which, in addition, Mrs Rivero has already written. It's just to get him out of that drawer where he was put and from what they also told him: you don't need to get him out of there again, from the bottom of the drawer, and put him on. With these measures Alcoa will not close, Megasa will not close, Celsa will not close and Ferroatlantic will not close; that is the real solution. And it's not a great idea, it's copying what France did twelve years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u174	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u175	And finally, too — already mentioned — don't forget about consumers. See if the new Government does the same thing the Portuguese Government did this week to lower the VAT. In Spain we propose to go down to four percent for consumers up to 4.6 kilowatts installed and 3,500 kilowatts/ hours per year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u176	Thank you, Mr. Casal. The Galician People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u177	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The truth is, Mrs. Presas, you have to have courage, or rather say, to have a face to come to this parliament and throw the blame on Alcoa's problem at the Galician Summit. You have to be brave! Look, I don't tell you, I tell you, the Business Committee, or trade unionist, Mr. José Corbacho, that says: "There is no excuse anymore: the elections were won by the government that promised to solve Alcoa"; Tuesday, April 30th. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Your Honor, I am not telling you, the chairman of the Alcoa Business Committee: Mr Sánchez's Government is responsible for the closure of Alcoa; ladies and gentlemen, do not invent. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, you're right: this happened at the time of Mr. Rajoy and it was solved. You tell me why it's not fixed now, it'll be for something! And if we talk about election results, the least you have to say here about election results will be Mrs. Noa Presas. How many Members did you get? Ladies and gentlemen. What is it, an achievement, a victory? Look: we're not happy with our result; we're not happy. But you have to be humble when you lose and humble when you win. You must be humble, gentlemen! And I'm telling you, I belonged to a number of winning candidates, Your Honor, and I don't keep talking about it. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to focus on Alcoa, which is the important thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u178	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u179	Look, we've been talking for seven months about the closure of two Alcoa factories, one in Coruña and another in Avilés; seven months about the loss of the jobs of 400 people who will be out of work if you don't find a buyer before June 30. I ask them if seven months seems normal to them, if it seems time enough for them to at least put on the table some solution that might be possible for some buyer to take care of Alcoa. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of Alcoa is the price of energy and the lack of action of a central government that has abandoned the industrial agenda in Galicia and throughout the country; a price of electricity which is a state power, ladies and gentlemen, not of the Galician Union. Mrs. Presas, just a few days after the announcement of Alcoa's closure, the People's Group was bringing an initiative to this plenary on the electro-intensive industry, already seeing the inaction of a government in the area of interruptability. In addition to this initiative, which came out with a unanimous agreement of this parliament, many initiatives have been approved, both in plenary and committee, with everything we believe necessary to achieve the salvation of Alcoa, proposals consistent with workers, trade unions and also with the employer of the electro-intensive industry. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, this group will not move, nor will it be disillusioned, nor will it approve things that do not comply with legality, nor do they affect an administration that is not directly responsible, as is the Council of Galicia. Your Honor, in the People's Group we do not agree to nationalize companies; we do not agree to blame the Council of Galicia when there is a clear head here, which is the central government, and of course we do not agree with an illegal Greek tariff for our community that would also not benefit Galicia. Evolve them, Mrs. Presas; I told you this morning, the advisor of Fairy, and I repeat to you: evolve and do not propose any more outdated ideas, Your Honor. This group and the Joint Government have been saying we've not been in the right direction for months. The Government of the State has violated its word. Mr. Sánchez visited Galicia in the campaign and said Alcoa's problem was solved. Mr. Losada, they said that the statute of the Intensive Industry would be passed before the elections on 28 April, and one day before the last Council of Ministers before the elections, when the statute was expected to be approved, they said that it did not comply with the rules and that it would remain for later. Ladies and gentlemen, the Alcoa workers and the more than 5,000 workers in the electronics industry have failed again. They know we have Ferroatlantics with problems, and we wait and hope there's no other. With the current situation there is no possibility that invites us to be optimistic, there is no possibility that Alcoa will keep all jobs in the Coruña and, above all, questions the future of Alcoa in San Cibrao and the rest of the electrointensive industry. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, you can't play this game with Galicia and its industry. Now they won the elections; the government no longer has excuses, socialist gentlemen, there are less than two months left to find a buyer. And, of course, the status of electro-intensive consumers is an essential requirement if we want Alcoa to have a future in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, the statute is essential if we want potential investors to present viable offers to the Coruña plant; if we want to ensure the continuity of Alcoa in San Cibrao; if we want to maintain the activity and the workload in the rest of the Galician electrointensive industry, which even now lacks a stable and competitive electric price. On many occasions, ladies and gentlemen, they come — the opposition — to talk about social inequalities. You know that the biggest inequality is not having a job. You have to fight for all jobs with the same force. Until now, in recent months, we have seen how Mr. Sánchez's government failed the workers of the Galician industry, failed the workers of Alcohol and the workers of the entire electrointensive industry, failed the workers of the thermal plants of Meirama and the Bridges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u180	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u181	...has failed the workers of Ence and has also failed the entire auxiliary automotive industry with the "dezesel" which, unfortunately, will affect the purchase of new cars and all those who have a diesel car, which are mostly in Galicia. Yesterday, as they said, there was a meeting in Madrid, and they did not set a date for the approval of the status of the intensive industry; they only announced aid for the compensation of indirect CO2 emissions, which they know is not the solution. We insist: in our humble opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u183	...I think we should be serious and stand firm in the agreements made in this parliament. And you, socialist gentlemen, rule in Spain; we hope, from this group, that they will make the right decision to approve the electrointensive status as before they allow the Alcoa factory not to be closed in the Coruña and not in Avilés either. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas Bergantinos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u185	Don't worry, Mr. Losada; I quote her because I have nothing else left, but I promise you that I won't be caught up in this fashionable roll on the Spanish left of walking the Constitution as a solution for nothing, because I think that better in these forty years of autonomy and this sacred constitution this country has been losing enough. Don't worry, it won't hit me. You have asked us many times, throughout these debates that we have held on the issue of electrointensives and industry, that we have been patient and that we give time. And we've had patience and we've given time, but the truth is it's going to run out of time. So today we simply ask that the possibility of Plan B be seen. In fact, in fact, we presented a self-amendment for two reasons: firstly, in point 1, when we were talking about public intervention, I made a mention of the question of electrolysis, which with the paralysing was already already overpassed; and secondly, to extend the wording a little bit and if you understood that spirit that we did not intend to enter with cannons, with guns and with AK-47 at the Alcoa factory and conquer it or nothing by style, but to foresee a mechanism that is within legality, which is customary and, in fact, is more and more common in the European environment to the thread of more protectionist policies in economics. But, in any case, given the visa, it doesn't matter how we explain to those who don't want to hear, because Mrs. Novo listens to the part that she likes. So he heard the part where we attacked the history of the People's Party and the responsibility that he has in the design of the Spanish energy model and put the caps of his ears when we shared blame on the Government of Mr. Sánchez; it's less bad that this remains recorded and is also transcribed in writing. But it's funny that those who sold us today in the morning self-government and self-government now don't want to take over their statutory powers in energy matters. You said, Mrs. Novoa, a great truth at a time of your intervention, because you said, "This group is not going to move." That might be the summary, you said, "This group is not going to move," and we see it's the line. [[Applause]] And it must be courage for you to come to this camera to talk about Ferroatlantics after the Galician Union doesn't want to use the concession instrument in your favor. You're talking about how we evolve: I don't know if you call evolution to the evolution that has the light rate in this country, that we're going to pay the most expensive of the state precisely for autonomic supplements, or how industrial employment evolves with you in the Galician Union, or the number of companies that are threatening to close. [[Applause]] Finally, we will continue to insist on this issue. What we're asking for is something that the workers and the workers of Alcoa are asking for. Mrs. Novoa, you quoted Mr. Corbacho's statements; if you listened to them all -- for example, those you did this morning on Radio Gaga in this country -- you would hear how, quite reasonably, the workers also have concerns about what might happen if the month of June ended and there is no firm buyer, and they also talk about the possibility, fully legal, of a transitional public acquisition in the search of a private investor. Because if we can delay the framework of the electrointensive status and that can discourage a possible purchase, and there are absolutely regulatory mechanisms that do not have any revolution -- we have to say -- and that could open up a possibility. What we're hoping for is that, from here on, if there's no positive news before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u187	...you mend and be generous, then you don't have today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u188	About the amendment? I don't know if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u189	Yes, we are going to accept the first point the Socialist Party proposes on the table of electrointensives and we do not accept the second point. We will facilitate, if they want, the voting by points. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u190	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Marcos Cal Ogando and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to health care for transsexual patients and the requirements required for their access to transitional medical procedures, as well as legal recognition of their identity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u191	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The resolution should be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1st. To comply with Law 2/2014 of 14 April for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia.2o. Consensually, before the end of the year, the development of Law 2/2014 of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals with the Greek LGTBI organizations and other administrations involved.3o. Push an integral gender identity law into Galicia during the X legislate."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u192	Mr. Cal has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u193	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all, again. As you know, the next 17th of May, in addition to being Galagas Letter Day, is also the International Day against LGTBIphobia, and it is in that context, around this day, where we bring this initiative. With this pressure, with more eyes on public policies that are taking place with regard to LGTBI policies, we have succeeded in adopting two fundamental and very easy measures to put into effect, because, in general, what we have seen throughout this legislation is that the People's Party has been voting against all the LGTBI initiatives we have brought from the opposition. Today we want to be prudent and we do not want to bring an initiative with major policy changes, nor bring back Law 2/2014, nor bring back the Trans Law. We want — as I say — to be cautious and bring two urgent issues, which are now at the heart of the LGTBI collective demands and which are fundamental so that they can have more liveable lives and lives more worthy of trans people. These are two issues that contemplated the Trans Law — the Gender Identity Act — which was already discussed in this parliament during this legislation and which the People's Party voted against, arguing, among other things, or focusing on its argument that we already counted on Law 2/2014 in Galicia and therefore did not need a gender identity law. We've already told them at that time that they have nothing to do with them, that they are totally different issues. That is, the problem is not only that Law 2/2014 is stored in a drawer or not developed, but that Law 2/2014 does not include many of the needs that the trans collective needs, and that is why they need specific laws for the trans collective. The two actions we propose today are not covered by Law 2/2014; therefore, I hope that today we do not use as an excuse that Law 2/2014 already exists in Galicia, because these two concrete measures are neither in the normative line nor are they developing — well, nothing is being developed, but they are not contained in Law 2/2014. So these are two measures that either want to be implemented or do not want to be implemented, but there is neither any normative framework nor any action in Galicia that is already proposing this issue. This initiative that we bring today defends the right to be and that everyone can develop their lives on equality regardless of their identity or sexual orientation; an initiative that defends moving forward in the sense of freedom that everyone can be who is dignified and without discrimination. We have launched an initiative to urge the Galician Union to put in place two urgent actions so that the trans collective can have, as I say, a more liveable life; two very simple actions to put in place that are at the heart of its demands because it needs the collective most to have as normal a life as possible. The Galician Union and the PP have completely abandoned the rights of LGTBI people. That's why Law 2/2014 has not been developed, and that's why the People's Group rejected the consideration of the Gender Identity Act, prepared by the collectives themselves that work with trans people and that we defend on this camera the three opposing groups together. Today, as I say, I bring two performances. On the one hand, in the health care system, we call for health care protocols to be promoted for trans patients to clarify the procedures and depathology of the service. Because, indeed, trans people are not sick people and they don't have a disorder -- the disorder is transphobia -- so they don't have to submit to psychiatric controls, they don't need a psychiatric diagnosis to be recognized for their identity and they don't have to travel to segregation centers to be treated, because most of the consultations they have to access can be carried out perfectly in their head doctor. But for that, protocols are needed, they need to be public and political will needs to be done. On the other hand, the other action has to do with administrative and legal issues: facilitate access to procedures for legal recognition of rapid, accessible and transparent gender change, without medical requirements such as surgery, sterilization and/or psychiatric consent. Because to avoid much of the discrimination that trans collective finds on their daily lives, having documentation according to their identity is a necessary and urgent matter. Any of us can imagine what their everyday life would be like if their gender identity didn't match their DNI name: every time you use the DNI, every time you make any document, you find yourself in trouble, you have to be explaining unknown people about your identity and about your reality. And of course, that's a lot of trouble for you, and you can imagine, in the workplace, the problems that you also have and the discriminations that you're subjected to on this issue, which is very easily resolved. Currently, trans people in Galicia have to endure a long periployment by different institutions to, at best, see their identity recognized. In the field of health, collectives have already on many occasions denounced the obstacles to access to hormonal treatments. Social ignorance about the reality of trans people always causes their medical needs to be subject to constant questioning and improper protection of democracies of the 21st century. According to the regulations on patient's rights, the attention of trans people should be proximity and non-segregating, because transsexuality is not a pathology, and it's not necessary to shift trans people to specific and segregation units that increase stigma and vulnerability. The European Parliament has also issued its resolutions on the situation of fundamental rights of the European Union, which point to the need for Member States to adopt laws and policies against homophobia and transphobia. It regrets that transgender people are still being considered mental illnesses in many states and asks them to review their national classifications of mental disorders and to develop alternative models of access free of stigma, ensuring that all transgender people can access accurate medical treatment. It also calls on member states that recognize gender change to facilitate access to fast, accessible and transparent processes of legal recognition, without medical requirements such as surgery, sterilization and psychiatric consent; exactly what we asked for in this initiative. We don't just ask for it from our group; European resolutions on fundamental rights are launching the same indications. What we bring here is initiatives to implement and to bring these European resolutions out. Health care protocols should be established for trans patients who clarify the procedures and dispathology of the service. It can't be that people's rights depend on the good will of the doctor who touches them. It cannot be that access to the second treatment, such as hormonal blockers in minors — which is happening in Galicia — depends on the fate of being born in a province or another. It depends on the province where you are born, you have the ease of access to them or not to the doctors who treat you; in some provinces they're making it easier for you and the others, not. So, as I say, we have two very concrete and very simple initiatives. There's no excuse here: either they support or they don't support themselves. We are not going into great depths; here we are talking about complying with European resolutions on fundamental rights and we are talking about complying with patient law. We're talking about two issues that are fundamental to life and the rights of trans people, and in administration we have an obligation to defend the rights of all people. Today we're going to vote on the side of trans people and their rights or get on the side of transphobia; today we're talking about putting ourselves on the side of people and the LGTBI collective and their rights or LGTBIphobia. Because it's not worth the speeches and it's worth the day against LGTBIphobia to be communicated and tweeted if later in the day-to-day performances and in the public policies we've carried out nothing is done to improve their lives. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u194	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u195	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Just two years ago, in April 2017, we discussed in this chamber the proposal for a Gender Identity Bill, driven by the three opposition political groups and drafted by the LGTBI entities, which was put down with the votes of the People's Party. He remembered yesterday those days prior to the debate of that bill, in which two facts coincided: that the bus of Hazte Hear was betting at the doors of this parliament and that Mr. Feijóo decided to announce the creation of a reference unit in Santiago to try to make that not to that bill that would bring the opposition here. This announcement, although ultimately attacking the LGTBI collective, we believe that the only success that it shows is the success of the advances that the Galician society has been consolidating in recent years and that it also takes it by the hands of the entities, since it has been achieved to put the rights of the LGTBI people at the forefront. Of course, we had to make makeup and we had to say something forcefully to try to beat that one; something that, as I said, demonstrates the impulse that society and entities have been doing in recent years tearing down cabinets, so the People's Party had to look for that holder of the creation of the reference unit to — as it said — to wash their faces. Despite the fact that we all know what the People's Party thinks about the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people: we know it when they appealed to the Constitutional Court the law that guarantees this reform of the Civil Code to ensure marriages between people of the same genre, we know it when they voted against this proposition of gender identity law, which was very important, and we know it now, when the People's Party returns, once again, to take the Vox crochet and its subsidiary Make Hear. Because that coincidence in time, ladies and gentlemen, has repeated itself many times. In the primary or non-primary ones themselves — we do not have that very clear — of the People's Party, Hazte Hear again supported... Well, of course they agreed: Mr Feijóo and Mr Hazte Hear supported the same candidate: Mr Casado — I suppose the Members of the People's Party will laugh at them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Blanco Rodríguez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] They supported the same candidate and there was again a coincidence in time between Hazte hearing and the People's Party in Galicia: they agreed that Mr. Married was the person who best represented them. Seeing the People's Party get deeper into the cavern every day, the Socialist Group does not surprise us that, despite all the vanguard that we have been with that approval of the law of 2014, that law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of LGTBI people driven by the Socialist Group, we are now in line with the rights of transsexual people. Because, of course, you didn't want to pass that bill here, but it turns out that that law already exists in Navarre, Euskadi, Andalusia, Canary Islands, Madrid and Valencia. And we only have, legally speaking, in this autonomous community is an article—Article 20, exactly—of that law of the year 2014, which is insufficient. The rest have specific laws to regulate these rights and freedoms. And we wondered, how long, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Until they continue to resist, as they have done all these years, the torrent between the citizenry to claim these rights? Until they keep saying no? That is why we, Mr Cal, tabled today an amendment, because we believe that it cannot — as you said — depend on the goodwill of who governs, and less if, as in this case, it is the right. For us to legislate, it is not a matter for this initiative, you said, of this subject to be considered with caution. We believe that in consolidation and in respect of rights, we must be blunt, inconsiderate. And that's why we present this amendment, where we essentially advocate: that it be fulfilled, five years later, the law of the year 2014, which develops this rule and, at the same time, to cease being the red lighthouse of all Spain, to legislate and make a law of gender identity during this tenth legislation. We don't know what the People's Party is going to vote for. It's true that they're lately browsing ideologically not to find themselves -- we all know, and they themselves also know what they think, what they think and what they don't think -- but to decide what they want to look like before citizenship; that's the drift they have right now. We don't know if they're going to be liberals today, from the reformist center, from the far right-- what's clear is that when we see the result of this vote, we're going to know what ideological trend they're in today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u197	Good afternoon. In fact, if we had to measure the commitment of the People's Party's German Government to gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual people in Galicia for their initiatives, the truth is that it wouldn't go out very well. Law 2/2014, with an application — to be generous — is just five years later, is a law where only aspects of transsexuality are collected in a few lines. It is a law that, of course, does not end with trans discrimination, because this law does not depathology; it does not collect crucial aspects such as difficulty in the health, education and legal system; it does not facilitate the change of names in the register or sex in the identity card, and it is a law that does not guarantee access to puberty blockers in children, by setting some examples. To this you can only add some very soft campaigns and some protocol that just goes from web pages to reality. In recent years we have seen how, in fact, throughout the Spanish State, legislation has been passed that depathizes trans identities and recognizes them as a fundamental human right. But in Galicia there is still this legal vacuum; it goes without the legal framework the definition of transsexuality, which is intersexuality or sexual or gender identity. In fact, the vote against the People's Party to the law drafted by the LGTBI collectives left this situation of legal vacuum. Therefore, there are still many impediments to those people whose gender identity does not correspond to their gender; people to whom names, bodies and roles that do not represent their identity, represent pitfalls and limits that begin at the same time that, to access any public service, including health care or legal recognition of their gender, they have to be diagnosed with gender dysphoria disorders. Of course, we are more than convinced that it is necessary to act to fight against intolerance and impunity that insults, harassment and cruelty, and to overcome in the best way the barriers that are still to be overthrown, which are many. It is true that Galician society in recent years has been experiencing significant progress. The rights of trans people and progress has been achieved in public debate and political debate. But the figures are still really very worrying; figures on the number of suicides of these people, which is eighty-five percent, when on the average society does not reach two percent, unemployment rates or school harassment rates. There is a report at the end of 2017 that states that 28.7 percent of trans people felt discriminated against or were treated incorrectly in health care services and that, therefore, 48.1 percent decides not to turn to their primary care doctor for fear — 50 percent — because they do not want to openly express their gender identity in consultations or because they believe that they can be treated illusoryly — almost thirty-five percent. Of course, these are worrying data that demonstrate the need to regulate this action. It's evidence that trans people don't have a disease or are sick. We believe that the protocol that calls for this initiative — which was actually included in the law that the People's Party voted against — is intended to facilitate clinical work and detail the steps to be taken by both professionals and the environment. A protocol for equality, quality, equity, accessibility and availability of necessary resources, in order to respect, advise, accompany...; that is, all those issues that should, at this point, be more than normal and be more than regulated. Today, therefore, the BNG will support this initiative presented in Marea, whether the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party is accepted or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Blanco, if you come here and talk to us about primarys, when they do primarys, they don't like candidates coming out and changing them... We don't think he's here to teach you this. But well, I'm not going to waste a minute, precisely with regard to transsexuals, answering some things that were said here and that have nothing to do with the subject of what we're talking about. [[Applause]] We are really in favour of transsexuals having a life in perfect freedom, as we said here. What we don't agree with, Mr. Cal, is what you just exposed to. Because, really, I was listening to him and saying, "What country are you talking about?", are you talking about Russia, other countries, Iran, with the death penalty? We're in Spain, thank God, and we're in Galicia. Of course, we watch with sadness that in the 21st century homosexuality and transsexuality are still being pursued and that in five countries — as he was told — is punished with the death penalty; it really makes us sad. Luckily, we live in Spain, where Law 3/2007 called for progress in the consolidation of the rights of older transsexuals, because it allowed them to correct the registrar allocation of their contradictory sex to their identity without the need to undergo a surgical procedure for reassignment of sex and without prior judicial procedure. Spain led the struggle in Europe for the full equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender and intersex persons, and, within Spain, Galicia was pioneer with Law 2/2014 of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of LGTBI people. We were also pioneers in the creation, in 2017, of the reference unit for the care of children and children trans, a unit made — do not forget — of the hands of associations, and, in addition, in the establishment of the Greek Observatory against discrimination by sexual orientation and gender identity, in the DOG, Decree 131/2018 of 10 October, so the Greek Observatory is created and regulated against discrimination by sexual orientation and gender identity. We haven't developed Law 2/2014, Mr. Cal, we haven't developed Law 2/2014. What do they tell you, the associations that are actually helping the formation of this Greek Observatory? From those associations? The initiative you're talking about, which they brought here and which we voted against, the Law on Transsexuality, didn't count on the support of all the associations. We don't have a fault that some associations were in favour of that law and others disagreed. That was really the cause of our vote against. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia, Mr. Cal, has Instruction 13/2017, which establishes the procedure to be followed by Sergas professionals for attention to transsexuality. In the instruction itself, the basic principles are set out for any performance within Sergas, which are, on the one hand, to respect trans people and their different identities and expressions of gender, and, on the other hand, to depatologize their situation. In this way, we define the teams of professionals who care: that they are formed by a multidisciplinary team that provides attention with a positive, non-pathological, trans-portological look, not what you say; not pathologizing. [[Applause]] On the other hand, Your Honor, scientific societies are working on the protocols to be followed in each of them for the attention of trans people; scientific societies, which are the ones that have to work, because they are the acquaintances of this topic. But in addition, in Galicia, for the calls or contacts that are established, the healthcare professionals promote the use of the meaning name specified, always bearing in mind the safety and proper identification of the patient for health action. Similarly, the guidelines of the Ministry of Health for the derivation of patients with sex-change surgery in the department designation protocol are followed. So, although there is no designated reference centre, first of all, the derivation to public centers — specifically Carlos Haya of Malaga — is intended, and in case the waiting list is too high, it is aimed at a private center that asks the person who wants to perform the surgery. Sergas guarantees access to services related to sex change at all times: during 2018, six people were authorized to undergo a gender change surgery — two to Ivan Manero's clinic and four to Barnaclinic — and during 2019 there were two people who applied for gender change and were authorized. With regard to the second point, which causes so many problems, Mr. Cal, and which refers to the regulation of the procedure of legal recognition of gender change, you know that it is not Galicia's competence; you know it's state competence, right? He knows this precisely because last year 2018 the Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea presented to Congress a Bill on the Legal Protection of Trans Persons and the Right to Self-Determination of Sexual Identity and Gender Expression, where you recognized that Article 149.8 of the Constitution—textually—" confers exclusive competence on the State in the field of civil law and civil legal relations relating to the management of public records and instruments". You know that, Mr. Cal:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u201	...the second point — lastly, Mr President — of this initiative is not the responsibility of the autonomous community. And the Socialist Group knows that too. And I say you know that because the amendment of substitution you tabled, Mrs Blanco — which is so concerned about the subject too — and that you, Mr Cal, I suppose, will support — as they always do with the amendments of the Socialist Group — does not contemplate the second point, what a coincidence! You throw balloons out, which seems to indicate that the central government... yes, Mrs. Blanco, is a replacement amendment and does not contemplate the second point... [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u203	...so it seems that the Central Government is not going to make any commitments on this subject. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support your initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u205	Thank you, President. Well, the problems I'm talking about today are Galician problems, they're neither Iran nor other parties. The problems I'm talking about are the problems that the trans collective is facing day by day. [[Murmurs.]] You can't say there's progress; of course, there's been progress all these years, of course there's been progress, but there's still a lot of discrimination that gives the following figures: if everything was so fantastically, we wouldn't have eighty-five trans people thinking of suicide; we wouldn't have forty-one percent of trans people trying to commit suicide, when the total citizenship is 1.5; we wouldn't talk about the unemployment rate of trans people being between eighty-five and ninety percent. If everything was so good... We're not in Iran, but in Galicia these are the numbers, and we need measures to change this reality. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] If they were doing the right thing, we wouldn't be the figure that 90 percent of school harassment cases are linked to sexual orientation and identities. Of course, in Galicia we have a lot of problems and a lot of discrimination with the LGTBI collective and with the trans collective — it doesn't have to go to other countries — and that's where we have to put solutions, because that's where we have the capacity to act. Of course, Spain has led the world-wide advancements of the LGTBI, but it was not thanks to the People's Party; it was thanks to civil society. Because the People's Party has been constantly putting itself against and boycotting all these advances. That's reality, and fortunately, our society has been moving forward. Look, I'm going to tell you what the collectives say, because you say you didn't support the Trans Law because the collectives were divided. You know that's a lie; you know that, of the two groups you've named, one doesn't exist -- it's not registered -- and the other had a voice in Galicia from a state collective. The trans collectives working in Galicia — registered in Galicia — were all law! You've been looking for an excuse and you've been supported by a person and another person who wasn't in a collective to say that the collectives disagreed. [[Murmurs]] You know this is so. [[Murmurs]] [[Murmurs.]] Look what the trans collectivities of the reference center that Feijóo said: the state platform for trans no identity rights, which binds up eighty percent of the trans state, expressed with respect to the reference unit of which you say you are doing fantastically well—which, of course, has psychiatrists on your team; we are waiting for you to see those protocols, because if you're not taking out those protocols, it's because something is hiding-- [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] If you want to speak to Mrs. Prado, we give her a turn; we can give her a turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u206	Quiet. We're finishing up now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u207	What trans collectives say about the reference unit, which you say is the advance: "Retrace us to old, retrograted and secretory forms of attention, contrary to depathologization and the new but necessary figure of the law; the self-determination of identity and gender expression, announcing as a "new model" — which you have now done — "is a clumsy exercise of juggling that only hides interests that are not those of trans people". This is what the trans-collection of the measures you're doing in Galicia feels. [[Mr. Cal Ogand is showing you a document to the members of the House.]] And time's up. I was saying that I came with a prudent initiative, because there are two measures in which LGTBI collectives are currently focusing attention because they think it's the most urgent, because I thought we could bring it forward; so I was no more powerful — as the Socialist Party's spokesman said. But seeing that the People's Party is going to vote against these two initiatives as well, we will deal with the Socialist Party, we will be more powerful and we will defend each other. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-07-DSPG114.u208	Thank you. We'll hold the full till tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
