ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u1	333. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - third reading We interrupted the discussion of this item on 23 April of this year at the 98th meeting in the debate. At the rapporteur's table, please take their seats as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, Social Policy Committee Mrs Jana Pastuchová. They've both taken their seats. I would remind you that the amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 961/3, which was delivered on 24 March 2021, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered as House prints 961/4 and 5. Before continuing the suspended debate, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has signed up for the debate with priority rights. I want to give her my word, but I can't do that, because there's a lot of noise again. I will ask my colleagues to bring their discussions either to the last point or to the next point in any case to the foyer. I would like the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to have a decent enough environment for her discussion paper. A colleague of Čižinský is registered after her. Just a minute. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly remind you that this amendment is a breakthrough in ensuring systemic care for the smallest children. We create a basic network of care services, which is guaranteed by the state, quality, available, both locally and financially. Places for children under three years are what is really missing in the Czech Republic and is highly criticized by all experts, because the quality preschool care available to all is the best recipe to reconcile work and family and thus increase birth rate in our country. The functioning of children's groups has been very successful, so we take over the quality base and continue to develop. Let me remind you that this is a very hard-working compromise as few of the other government proposals and the whole amendment works as a house of cards. If one parameter changes, the whole structure can be spread out as if you pull the bottom card out of the house. The cornerstones of this bill are stable national funding taking into account the financial demands of care. I think there's a consensus that the children's groups and then the new nursery should not receive a lower contribution from the state than the current one. Furthermore, the reduction of the contribution from parents, which will just ensure accessibility for all families, not just for the high-income ones. And then, of course, the age link to kindergarten, which is the goal of creating an understandable system that will grow with the child, that is, from a young nursery school, then a kindergarten where education will take place, and then a follow-up elementary school. [[11.00 hours]] We can already boast more than 15 000 seats in more than 1,100 providers of children's groups, and I personally consider it great news that we have managed to negotiate from the National Recovery Plan to establish children's groups or nursery groups, 7 billion crowns. This means that any municipality that wants will have incredibly good conditions, both in the form of state stable funding on a monthly basis, and in order to cover all the costs of setting up children's groups or crèches, amounting to CZK 7 billion. Reconstruction of existing ones will also be included in this, which will once again ensure a much greater boom in this service. In addition, a three-year transitional period is set here to allow sufficient time to adapt smoothly to new conditions such as age reduction or qualification adjustment. Therefore, my fellow Members, I beg you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u3	Thank you, Minister. My colleague Čižinský overruled himself, okay. Now, Mrs Richterová, with a point of fact. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u4	Thank you so much for the floor. I wanted to ask the Minister: it was said that this is a law that is a compromise, and I do not know what the compromise is, and that it provides stable funding. There is a fundamental question - yet, as far as funding is concerned, the law does not specify how much our state will put on children's groups. It seems very important to me that it should be said here, Madam Secretary, exactly how it should be with this stable financing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Madam Secretary is applying with priority rights, so my colleague Aulická will be able to wait. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u6	The MP did not listen because I said that it could not be lower than the current one, which is CZK 9,900. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u7	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, one more factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u8	But the law doesn't contain that amount, Madam Secretary. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u9	Well, we're not in interpellation, but of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u10	I'll just fill it in. The point is, we need to know what we're voting on. And if the bill doesn't mention the amount, the House's introduction is a mistake when the secretary suggests that this is how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u11	Okay. The rapporteur also has priority rights, so I will ask my colleague Aulická to be patient. The rapporteur has the floor, Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u12	Thank you. So in the proposal, by your means, for Mrs Richterová, it is written that the government will determine the amount. And I can't imagine one single government that wouldn't give enough money to liquidate those children's groups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u13	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, now duly applied for. Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my fellow Members, maybe only for what has happened here, this gunfight with colleagues and with the Minister, through Mr President, on Mrs Pastuchová. I imagine some governments can give small sums. Unfortunately, I can imagine, and that's what scares me. I would like to say that this bill, although from some parties, mostly the opposition, will now sound: why we are changing, why we are reducing the age, why we are dealing with other measures, sanitary things and so on, is precisely because when this law was adopted in 2014, it really arose during the time when there was a great shortage of places in the system in kindergarten schools, and at a time when there really was a big problem for two- or three-year-olds, because it changed parentally. We all know that most parents really tried to give that year and a half, and then with two-year-olds they didn't know where to go because they wanted to go back to the work system, there was no room for them in kindergarten, and neither could the state at that time provide for other things. On the other hand, a law was adopted that ignored any hygiene conditions, eating conditions, personnel items, and left it simply loosened up, so that the system would adjust it more or less according to its own. Therefore, we, KSČM, had a big problem with this because it is or should be the smallest children, and we think that the state really should have supervision of how these children are cared for, even if it is in private hands. We certainly do not have a problem with the fact that today children's groups operate primarily private entities, whether non-profit organizations, but they are also self-government or other forms of government, we know that children's groups are also in ministries, but by this proposal we say that the state really doesn't care - and I am glad and proud that KSČM participated in the original proposal - that care for the smallest children should really be of good quality, so that even parents are not worried about how the children are cared and cared for. Finally, we have to admit in this proposal that children's groups should be caring for the smallest. We literally gnawed our teeth when we talked about the lower age limit, the six months of a child. It's really for discussion. On the other hand, we know that the individual approach in each family is completely different, and we are all aware that a six-month-old child should not be put into a children's group for a long time. It should only be for the necessary time, because this little kid is probably best off with his mom or his dad. On the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure that such a small child is well cared for. That is why we, too, gave way initially to the requirement that children's groups be for children from one year to the next, and we only hope that younger children within one year will be given very rarely there. On the other hand, this was also thought of in the number of carers as presented. We also wanted to say that the age, which is perhaps the most discussed, is ready for children's groups to more or less replace what has been here in previous years and what has worked, and to integrate them into the overall system of care and, consequently, further education at preschool age. It was a so-called nursery that we think worked really well here. Unfortunately, after 1990, it was said that the nursery was not needed, that the parents would stay long on parental leave. We all know that this trend, which has been driven here in the 1990s, and without thought, the nursery has been disposed of, sold out by the authorities, and today, to a large extent, about 15 to 20 years, we are talking about where the nursery has been preserved at least in some number, so today everyone is happy, even though mostly they have to subsidize them from their own, because the state has completely forgotten that little children are just here. That is why we wanted to go through this proposal, which I think was supposed to be originally in 2014 so that the care of young children would be involved in the preschool education system, which means children from three years old, so that they could actually form classes, whether children's groups or nursery, depends on what we accept today at current kindergartens. [[11.10 hours]] We have also tried to communicate this because it has been promised that funding from projects at the Ministry of Regional Development will also be involved, so that the establishment of these classes for such young children is funded, so that the budget can be increased and that de facto self-government or private entities should they want to set up children's groups or maybe transform into children's groups and kindergartens, so that they can get the funds through those projects. We saw it as a big return to a system that would work here, and it would work in the previous years, and most importantly, the big argument would be that in big cities, for example, parents would have to go to one children's group and then go to one kindergarten just because they have preschool children. This is simply how classes would be built at kindergartens, and more or less those children would have no problems moving into the preschool education system, because they knew the environment, they would know the teacher, they would know the other staff there, and they wouldn't have any problems. That was the main fact that we saw in the bill amendment. It was not really easy to deal with certain areas during the discussion, and after what took place, I think across the political spectrum, today we decided to support the amendment by Mrs Kovářová. These are two amendments. One is saying that the government will also take into account the operating costs of the entire operation when deciding how much it will spend on children's groups. We think that this is a logical thing and even the amount that has actually been mentioned so far, about 7,500, so we hope that it will never really be lower, that, on the contrary, it could only be a higher amount and that even then the Ministry of Education itself could respond to it, because there I think that more or less in funding and the whole concept of kindergarten schools sleeps in the long term. Another amendment by Mrs Kovářová, which we will support, is an exception for small municipalities. This is because, systemicly, whether you like it or not, the government, in turn the Ministry of Education with other ministries, failed to respond primarily to demand and the problem of constantly increasing the number of young families, young children, and more or less the funds in budgets were really small in order to help them establish kindergartens. We also think that, in the long term, the whole view of setting up kindergarten schools under the school law should be opened, talked about, addressed or re-evaluated certain hygienic parameters and followed by a path that is not as difficult for self-government, for companies and others who would like to establish those kindergartens. I say this mainly because when we had a round table with Minister Maláčová, there were representatives of children's groups from all over the Republic and even though they had no problems with staffing at all, because they currently have really equipped, quality staff in children's groups, there are educators, but also nanny and so on, so they saw the biggest problem in the fact that when they transform, i.e. part of the children's group, part of the kindergarten, just so that they meet all the conditions for setting up the kindergarten. At the last meeting, Mr Čižinský spoke about the fact that in large cities there are also children's groups in apartments. For me, this fact is merely proof that the form of the law approved in 2014 was really very relaxed and I simply cannot relate to this form. I understand that we are talking about small groups of children, I understand that children's groups were created for the needs of parents, on the other hand, I think it is precisely the error of the view of the Members at the time of how they should have treated the children, but we also perceive this - and I think that everyone here - that the parents are dealing with how they are taken care of and where their children are taken care of, and that it is often a big problem for large cities. Because, for example, if we look at the premises of kindergartens in Prague, I think it's a really big problem that we should talk about it more from the expert perspective, how to relax and with the hygiene standards to deal with the care of the smallest children until preschool age. I would ask you, but I know - or I don't really know - how the age limit would turn out, too, because there is another amendment to increase the age of not three years and the transition of one year, but in four years and the transition of one year - so that you do not vote for this amendment, I think it is also Mrs Kovářová, because we are the original proposal, which is to achieve that these children really should be educated. Since it is not stated in this bill that a child who is over three years old and still in that children's group is not the teaching staff there, we ignore one hugely large dogma, one big truth, and that every child has the right to education since he was three years old. And we didn't really think about it with the other things, and the parameter that the educator should always be there when there's a kid from the age of three is just not there. And I think that's one big reason for us -- although there may be adjustments in the Senate, we're not saying that we don't -- but for us, we think that a child who is over three years old is supposed to be educated. Of course, smaller children need different care, but it is because we know what is taking place in kindergartens, we know how educators perceive individual children, how they work with them, what is needed, how much the individual things that need to be captured at that preschool age are neglected, and which parents are not able to respond to from the logic of the matter, or are simply not perceived. And at this point, we really think that there should be a person who understands that in children over the age of three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Now we have two factual points, my colleague Bauer will wait. Mrs Richterová, then Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to stick to the money because it's very important. Mrs Aulická mentioned 7,500 a month, Minister Maláčová 9 800 a month, Mrs Pastuchová did not say any amount with the government's determination. But it can't work that way, because we know that then the government is able to use the argument - unfortunately, yes - that kindergartens have lower child benefits. It will no longer take account of the fact that, yes, kindergartens would need to be added, and there will be a real threat that children's groups will disappear due to insufficient support, that the amount that the government approves in the decree will be unavailable for at least certain regions, where the provision of care is more expensive due to higher rents and higher salaries. And that's why I'm asking again - it's not in the law, you didn't say a single amount here that you, like the three parties who want to support it, would agree on, and that's why I'm asking what the sum is, a respectable government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, by your means, wanted to respond to my colleague Aulická Jírovcová. I think I really... I understand your attitude. That attitude of yours is basically, we're gonna send all the kids to kindergartens as much as we can, and that's our policy, that's your ideology, that the state should just take over and do it all by itself. From my point of view, there has been a functional system of children's groups, which works to the satisfaction of both children and parents without problems, and you are trying completely unnecessarily to hack it and make it impossible, for example, for four-year-olds to go into children's groups. In my opinion, the only thing you can achieve with your proposals, whether it's stricter hygiene standards or stricter age rules, is that those parents who deliberately want to have children in the children's groups, for example, because they want to have children in a smaller group, the only thing they have left to do alone in private, to do their own child group without the support of the state that will be in those apartments will be with far worse hygiene conditions, because, of course, it will be completely out of state's attention, and you will achieve the exact opposite of what you wanted to achieve. In my opinion, this is a very unfortunate approach and you are destroying a functioning system that works well to the satisfaction of tens of thousands of people in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. You made a comment by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. My colleague Bauer will be able to wait. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to my colleague Ferjenčík. But I said that the law didn't come out in good and good circumstances, because if it had been created here, it wouldn't have happened - or if it had been said that it would be for the most necessary, really for those little kids who were supposed to be there up to four years of age, we wouldn't be talking about this today. Yes, he simply accepted in such parameters that have become loose, and yes, there are children there today, which are also pre-school age and which, in our opinion, by how the qualifications of those people who are there according to the law are not supposed to be there. It's lucky they have those educators in some children's groups. Yes, they do, they have the staff, but somewhere they don't. And don't be angry if we deny it at the same time, where the educators aren't, that the child can't be educated from the age of three, and on the other hand, we have a school system where it actually works - and I think I stand behind them, behind the kindergarten where the really good education is, so we just need to figure it out. But no one here wants us to make trouble for those parents. On the other hand, I'm telling you frankly that in preschool education, it's not just that children are being educated, but there are a lot of things that unfortunately, those parents just can't catch, and it's for the benefit of those kids. And we really should focus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and there's really a lot going on right now. My colleague Bauer, to calm down, we have: Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Helena Langšádlová, Olga Richterová, Jan Čižinský, Marek Výborný. These are factual notes in order as they are logged in. Now a colleague of Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really have to respond. Why don't you leave it up to your parents to choose which system suits them? You think it was a historical mistake, the way the children's groups were introduced here. I think it was historical happiness that brought tens of thousands of parents and tens of thousands of children a functioning care system. We have a huge economic problem that we are failing to involve the parents of small children in the labour market, and the system normally works and helps them to work or work on short-term jobs, and we are glad that this system is here. We are pleased that there is freedom of choice here, and we would very much like this to be preserved. And that is the core of our dispute over this law. We really don't think the state should decide directly whether parents should put the child in kindergarten, in a children's group, or leave it at home. Let the parents decide freely to be adequate support for all systems that match the costs, and let it be taken into account first of all that if we don't make support from the state, the parents will make their own arrangements, make their own private children's groups, and we will lose more people from the labour market for nothing instead of putting a few thousand crowns on the children's group here and allowing those parents to get back to work and actually finance the whole system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u23	My colleague Ferjenčík kept time. Before we go any further, we have five factual points and two priority rights ahead of us, Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Maláčová. I noticed. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was at the debate when children's groups were formed, I led the family committee. It is not a mistake, it is an appropriate alternative for a large group of parents, and I think it is our duty to adopt such proposals that will preserve all the children's groups that still exist. The state, if it doesn't help anymore, shouldn't at least hurt. I believe that some of the proposals that are here today by the Minister, and I note that the bill has also been supported by Minister Marksová Tominová and we have often talked about it, so the State really does not do any harm and does not disturb this suitable alternative for a large group of parents that works. It should be parents who choose the appropriate form of care for their children. Let us not underestimate the fact that parents are unable to determine what conditions are there, who cares for their children, what effect it has on them. They are parents who should be sovereigns in this decision, and our duty is to create only conditions for different alternatives. I believe that the alternatives in the future are to be children's groups, as we know them today, so that parents - and parents - can choose an appropriate alternative for their children. After all, they're in ministries, they're in companies, they're in small municipalities, and I really think it's criminal ideas that we should limit any child group that exists, because that's what limits the offer to parents who use them. They were often community groups that initiated and built these centres, and I don't think we can throw a stick under our feet. [[The ……]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová's factual comment, will be prepared for the factual remark by Jan Čižinský. The number of factual remarks remains five. Now, you have the floor, madam, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u26	Thank you for the floor. I just hope that then the Minister will answer the amount, because that is absolutely essential. But I wish the entire government coalition would answer that. You just can't make a responsible decision about the law without it. But one more thing. Please, just because you can't call yourself something doesn't mean it's not happening. What am I getting at? To the so-called education. Here, in a factual remark, I just want to point out: there is a complete illusion that there would be a limit of three years of age, by lighting three candles on the cake, education ended and education began. For proboha's sake, co-workers and co-workers, that's an illusion. That is why it is so illusory to separate children of different ages by law. Children develop differently, are individual, have individual needs, and therefore we need different, flexibly complementary care systems. And it is precisely because I consider it a really big mistake to say that there is no education in children's groups because, of course, it is happening until those three years of age, but it must not be officially called that today. I also consider it pointless to base this on setting the limit when the child stops three and becomes four, that it should no longer be allowed to go to this kind of preschool facility. And I'm gonna say one more pearl. Where's the three-year-old limit coming from? It comes from Austria-Hungary. At that time, it was believed that from that age, one could learn love and respect for the emperor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to my colleague Čižinský, I shall first read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ivana Nevludová, from 9 a.m. to the end of the sitting day Marian Bojko, from morning to the end of the sitting day, from 9 a.m. to the end of the sitting day, Marian Jurečka, for the whole meeting day also Lubomír Volný, from 10.15 a.m. to the end of the Golasowská day Radovan Vích, from 12.30 a.m. to the end of the sitting day Monika Jarošová, another is Kateřina Valachová for the whole day of the hearing for working reasons and Minister Marie Benešová for the whole day of the hearing. So many apologies. And with a point of fact, it is noted and I will give the floor to Mr Jan Čižinský and pass on the proceedings of the meeting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u28	Thank you. I'd like to try to dull the edges a little bit, because we have a pretty good situation. We are faced with a decision when those amendments are available that can save the situation. We can just approve the most important ones there. I'm afraid there's been a big misunderstanding here. Children's groups have actually been formed and formed at a time when there is a group of people who need it, when there is a shortage in kindergarten, or when there is really a group of people who just need another group of children who need this kindergarten, and they started that group. But the main engine is usually the lack of care for children, simply the inaccessibility. When we look at the map where children's groups are created, it's obvious. And I'm terribly worried that a few of us are coming out of some ideal situation where some kindergarten is standing right next to a building site where a nursery is built. But this situation is simply real, it really isn't. Does that mean what do people think now that they're setting up a group of kids watching us? These people are in huge trouble, most of them have put their money in it, they're losing the money, the help from the state is really inadequate, and now they're watching what happens. And especially the age, so it's just dramatic for them because they have siblings there and no mommy will take them to two places or three places, or it will, and it will make her life very difficult. Moreover, there must be many among us whose right to education was trampled on, they simply went straight to school. I'm one of them. I don't think that's entirely crucial. The key is for families to have a place to put their children and not to destroy a functioning system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u29	He now has a point of fact - I wish you a good day - Mr Marek Výborný, Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u30	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, through you, to my colleague Aulická. It sounded here, let's not forget the parents - why do we have to or why do we have to be ambitious as a state to these parents to dictate everything for the king's master from A to Z? Here was created some functional model of children's group or children's groups and now we want to completely eliminate it? I don't think it's wise or reasonable. In the context of what we really want to achieve, and she also said to my colleague Aulická, the ideal reconciliation of family life, child care, child education, and then perhaps career careers, so let us leave parents a truly free choice, and that means leaving a functional model of children's groups, which was notabene built with considerable financial costs, which is somehow financed and we are now putting him under immediate threat here, even at a time when the system has already been hit by the impact of the covid. I don't think that's really wise, and please, let's not have the ambition that unfortunately comes from the original proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - just get women to work quickly, if possible, to pay taxes, and leave the education to the state. I really don't think it's reasonable, parenting is supposed to be primarily up to parents and family.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u31	Another factual point, Mrs Hana Aulická, will be prepared by Mr Radek Holomčík, then by Jana Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Through you, to responsive colleagues and colleagues. I feel like maybe I understand why it's turning around, or why you're presenting it a little differently. Nobody here at the KSČM wants there to be a problem in the fact that it would be done that parents wouldn't have anywhere to put their children. I'm just going to ask, why is it such a problem for you that existing children's groups, and they have four years, could transform into children's groups and older care under the law on education or school law into kindergartens? Why is that such a problem? I really don't see anyone here trying to prevent children from being cared for, whether for the smaller ones or for the older ones. But we're also talking about the conditions, and no one here really wants to stop their parents from choosing. And I have to say, even on the round table, those children's groups, and I think it was just somewhere from Moravia, from the Olomouc region, they said themselves, "We got it." And all they wanted was to help us transform into kindergarten. That was the only thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u33	Another factual point - I will now just read the order: Jana Černochová, Jan Čižinský, Mikuláš Ferjenčík. So now Mrs Jana Černochová has a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The secretary here is unverbally showing what the speakers think about what they're saying. I'd have her - it's got a piece of hers. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is in my 2nd place - so, Madam Secretary, I do not mind, come to our town hall, we will tell you how children's groups work in practice, as we have also dealt with the covid situation, when children's groups formed an alternative to being able to place children in them of the very helping professions. I also remember here as a memorial to this House the discussion with your predecessor, Minister Tominová Marksová, who was on the mountain of children's groups. By the way, Mrs. Tominová Marksová is also from Prague 2, so she will certainly confirm that this practice is really good with us, and I do not understand why we want to disturb something that works. And as many of my previous speakers have said here, let's stop playing social engineers and stop making decisions here for the parents of those children who want to have a choice, they want to have a choice. You're here again tying their choices into something they just don't want. They don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want it, they don't want My colleague Aulická Jírovcová is a representative of the city of Most, so I assume she has some experience with children's groups, and I am surprised that she fights them like this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u35	Time. Now a factual remark, Mr Jan Čižinský, will be prepared by Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u36	Here's the thing: I say it here for the few times that many children's groups that are in the areas where they are most needed, that is, in a dense development, they can never meet those conditions. He's just never gonna meet them. They're even in a very good location, they're just in some apartment that goes into the garden, in the inside block, nothing ever comes out there (?). And if it goes through how the lighting and the sunshine are designed, it's cancelled across the board. Even the Olomoucka groups don't know what's gonna happen, it's gonna be a complete disaster. There's going to be measurements, it's going to have to be measured for a few days, and it's going to be found that three kids can fit in that apartment. That's how it works, that's how it's real. Whoever set up the children's group will put the meter there to measure it, it costs several thousand crowns, and it will find a usable belt two meters along the window. It's just reality! So I'm terribly worried that even the children's groups from Olomouck didn't know what they were talking about. [[11.40 hours]] And how it works now - and I will now speak very specifically - how the urban part of the city works in the heart of the city. There are several of us here, and it's not just Prague, please. It just works when she cares that she constantly builds up the capacity, but at a time like this, when there are so many delays, when people are being transferred from private kindergartens to state schools and there is a shortage, so we need to establish quickly, actionally, for just two years, two, three children's groups. That won't be possible now. So we'll start building if there's a shortage, we'll finish in five years, then maybe it won't be necessary again. That means you're here to completely cancel the action, and I don't want those kids to always go to the kids' groups. I just don't want to let those parents down like everyone else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u37	Another factual point - Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Mrs Hana Aulická will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Aulicka Jírovcová. You're saying why we don't like the transformation. The point is that the system works without problems today and there is absolutely no reason to force all children's groups to complete this bureaucratic obstacle - they are not even sure that the Ministry of Education will allow it. That's one thing. Second thing. I'm really wondering if when you're arguing with the need for education here, if there's evidence of any data that there's a problem in the preparatory year of kindergarten, with children from children's groups making some problems about the ability to work in the collective or managing the things they're supposed to manage. I really wonder if there's any evidence that there's really a problem with these kids. I am convinced that there is no problem, because parents can raise these children at home today and have nothing to say to them, and I do not understand why we should break down a functioning system of children's groups and force them to do some bureaucratic surgery, which will also be very difficult as regards the need for hygiene standards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u39	Now a factual point - Mrs Hana Aulická, Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared and then Mr Jan Jakob will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, my colleague Ferjenčík. This is precisely when you are concerned with preschool education, so you should know that if a preschool child is in a children's group, then she must be tested, but the teacher or teacher concerned from the kindergarten under the school law. That's just, yes, it is. Yes, it is. Unfortunately, it is. And even the children who are at home as part of the education are also to be tested. That's just the way it goes, I'm afraid. And Mrs. Černochová. I'm not fighting children's groups. We fought in 2014 to adopt such a low-quality law without the parameters we wanted. We only fight to say that children's groups need to be integrated into the existing system for young children. [[care]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u41	Mr Jan Bauer will now make a point of fact and Mr Jan Jakob will be prepared, followed by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, dear colleagues, I would really like to respond to most of my previous speakers. I have to say that I have a pretty good feeling that I probably have the ability to extraordinarily tear people's minds to my side, because, if I remember correctly, at first reading, I stood here alone, with my colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party, who pointed out that this law was completely meaningless from the beginning, that it should not have been here at all. That is why we have proposed that it be returned to second reading, so we have proposed and entrusted that the Minister, preferably in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, should find replacement resources instead of European money and that with this proposal, perhaps preferably in the 90th, she should come to the Chamber of Deputies, so that she does not bother us here with a senseless and winding-up bill that really disturbs and destroys children's groups. I believe that you are meeting the very same people, the founders that I am meeting, and, Madam Secretary, through the President, they are truly appalled. They're supposed to tell their parents by September what's going to happen, what it's going to look like or not. Let's get some pure wine. Last week, there was information in the galleys that the law would return to second reading, because no compromise you are talking about simply did not exist and, in my opinion, it does not exist. I am glad that the ODS does not ultimately remain alone in this, which begins to claim or we are beginning to say that the proposal really is winding up, that it does not deserve to pass through this Chamber of Deputies, and that the founders of children's groups deserve to continue with what you are here, and I acknowledge that they have established in the previous parliamentary periods. I have no idea how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can liquidate something you've stuffed billions of crowns in the last few years! It's just an incredible thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u43	Mr Jan Jakob will now make a point of fact and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I do not understand any of these arguments. You want to integrate children's groups into the system - they work in the system, they work for many years. I want to join my fellow mayors. When I became mayor more than 10 years ago in 8,000 Solutions, there was no kindergarten capacity, and if they were not - and did not emerge gradually, often by themselves - children's groups, we would not be able to cope with the situation. Today, two-year-olds will get into the city kindergartens, because we've doubled capacity. However, the children's groups continue to work with us and I see no reason why they shouldn't. Parents, the kids are happy there. Some people simply want a child to go to a narrower group or to go there with a sibling or to go to a so-called forest kindergarten. I really don't understand why we want to destroy something that works perfectly and not give parents and children the opportunity to choose. I beg and intercede very much to approve the amendments that address this situation so that many people, a lot of teachers, and a lot of investments are not trampled on here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u45	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now make a point of fact. I'll just read the order so the Members can keep track. Then Marek Výborný, Vlastimil Válek, Stanislav Juránek, Jan Skopeček and Jan Bauer. I'm just making factual remarks. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to my colleague Aulická Jírovcová about the checkup. I mean, I'm not against it at all. I asked if there was any field experience, that children who were either in a children's group when they were five years old or entering a kindergarten, a preparatory year, a children's group, so if there was any experience that these children would be delayed in their development in some way, perhaps compared to children who go there from home care. That's what I was wondering, because you're saying that we need to integrate the system of child groups into the kindergarten system, because otherwise these kids are gonna be some uneducated, unprepared education. I don't think that's true, that it's not justified, and I'm asking if you have any data here, some documents that could actually prove that there's a problem that we've overlooked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u47	There. Now for the de facto comment of Mr Marek Výborný and will prepare Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, through you, to my colleague Aulická. Yes, you're right about checking, but when you quote school legislation, you need to be complete. It only concerns the last preschool year, that is to say child 5+, yes?, and not to speak in general. That's one thing. [[11.50 hours]] And the second thing - about the original plan, I think we all have some idea. The Minister simply had to deal with funding for children's groups that work. They are really a key part of pre-school care, and there was some kind of illusion, in my opinion, that the European Union would take up the trick by re-painting the children's groups into a nursery, and then it would all work out. Unfortunately, I do not think that this will really work, that the European Union will not eat up this trick, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u49	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now appear and be prepared by Stanislav Juránek, Jan Skopeček, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická, in this order. So, Mr. Juránek, let's go. [[Named wonders that already.]] Yes. No, no. Sorry, Vlastimil Válek. Sorry. [[Juránek responds: Mr. Wark is not in the hall, you are right, I am next.]] Just by chance. So the invitation fails. And so Stanislav Juránek will perform. That's how I got you right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u50	Thank you, Mr President, for actually estimating the current situation this way. Just for the record, I would like to say to my previous speakers, for the sake of absolute, clear order: we have introduced compulsory school attendance a year before first grade, and therefore, when we talk about some checking, we will only speak from the moment of compulsory school attendance. Until then, the preparation is and should be in the hands of parents and parents as such - of course, we should provide them with the possibilities, we have a well-equipped kindergarten and it is a certain offer, because education in kindergarten schools - and here, please distinguish the term kindergarten, because by law, if we give education, education as such is given in kindergarten - but nowhere is it written that parents have to have this education here, because this education is not compulsory for them to have to use it. And that's why I'm saying that there was an emergency when there were problems with the children getting into some space at all, we didn't have enough places in kindergarten, so there was a wonderful possibility, as it turned out, of having children's groups. It turned out to be perfectly possible in various ways of education, and it suits a large number of parents. I take it on the scale that it's a big offer and that we shouldn't touch children's groups at all. I think it's very important that we realize that this is the option. At the moment when we financially cancel this opportunity here and force parents by force into some constant system, so in terms of freedom, in terms of the possibility of developing a child, we are doing the wrong thing. That's why I'm asking if we can work this out properly. But I think that even the amendments that are there are not enough to solve this issue well here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u51	Now a factual point, Mr Jan Skopeček. Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to speak as colleagues in support of children's groups. And it must be said that, for once, European money has succeeded in building something meaningful that the government wants to tear down. Children's groups arise where there is demand for them, they are flexible and replace the state's inability to provide sufficient capacity in kindergartens, and we are here to bring such a change, absolutely throwing it overboard, because if this concept passes, we will eliminate children's groups that work well. We simply take them as an alternative to kindergartens that are crowded in a number of cities and where parents simply have no choice but to place children in children's groups. I am convinced that it is a terrible pity if the Minister wants to address funding by making them a nursery by putting an end to the age of children. Thus, a number of children from these groups will have to leave. We'll often divide up different old siblings who go to a children's group today. It is simple for those parents and I do not understand why the Minister comes and destroys the thing that actually arose because the state is unable to provide sufficient capacity in kindergarten. Parents will not be helped even by the ceiling, because especially in large cities it will lead to the demise of many children's groups. [[unintelligible]] A lot of children's groups are simply unable to meet those new requirements for the education of personnel or for other technical requirements. It's just something where we throw sticks under the feet of groups that work well. Parents know it works, they send their children there, and we want to be more papal than the Pope. [[Time.]] Madam Secretary here works as a classic socialist. [[Mr. Ambassador, time, please.]] What works, regulates and tramples them into the ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u53	I'd like to ask you, you know I'm benevolent, one more two sentences, yes, but then I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u54	Mr President, we are once again benevolent in the fact that there is no minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u55	Well, that doesn't concern me. If you ask me to do this, I will, of course, make order. I'm supposed to think of it as... That? Oh, please, I'd like to defend Secretary Maláčová here, because she warned me that she needs to go on a health-care break for a short time. So benevolent is to that extent, and I gave her permission. We can announce... Okay. She asked me for a sanitary break. Madam, please. So I'm benevolent in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u56	Mr Vice-President, that's commendable. I'm sure we all understand. On the other hand, we all know how much the government of the Czech Republic has, and that the ministers of the Czech Republic do not want to work here on Friday at 12 o'clock and leave one minister behind, that is not our fight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u57	You're absolutely right. So I just wanted to say to Mr Skopečka that Minister Maláčová asked me to take a technical break. And really, let's not mix it with a two-minute limit. You know I have nothing against you. Please, let's keep those two minutes. I'm just doing my job, please. Then I'll give you a little space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u58	I never blame any of the ministers who sit here for hours to go to the bathroom. I consider that perfectly normal and I do not question it. I'm talking about the empty bench behind me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u59	Yeah, let's go. I'm just asking you again, I'm doing my job. It's two minutes, so it doesn't get messy. Let's keep it that way. And if any of you object to the Minister's absence, I will call a break immediately upon your agreement. It's no problem. So let us, Mr Jan Bauer, prepare Madam Hana Aulická. Please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u60	Mr Vice-President, dear ladies and gentlemen, just a comment on my speaker, colleague Jakoba, through the President. I agree with all of you, my colleague, because your view of community policy in this matter is very appropriate. I just wanted to draw attention to one small, but perhaps substantial thing. None of the 28 amendments, while I have one in there, will improve the bad law, which will essentially destroy children's groups. That's what I think is the biggest problem we've been drawing attention to since the beginning. And I would like to say that we are ready to support practically all the amendments that will lead to the improvement of the pasquila. On the other hand, we will in no way support the law itself, and please all those who think that by some amendment you will improve this bill or this amendment of the law - you are wrong, it is not true. This law does not point to anything else, whether with or without amendments, that children's groups in the Czech Republic will be liquidated. The only way to do this is to make sure that Minister Jana Maláčová, in cooperation with Minister Alena Schillerová, sits in the context of holiday debates over the budget of the Czech Republic in 2022 and allocates in some chapter of the state budget the necessary money for children's groups to continue to function in their current form, unchanged, and to replace, through national resources, the missing money that will not be a source of funding for the children's group from the European Social Fund in the future. This is the only legitimate way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u61	Now, Mrs Hana Aulická and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. So far, that's the last point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take care of my colleague, Mr. Bauer, through you. That is precisely the problem why we need this law: because at this point, if, in whatever form, we don't change the possibility of money coming from national funds, next year the money will stop flowing from Europe and we will get into the system that the existing children's groups are simply unlucky and will not be funded. That is why the legislation is needed and let us not make illusions here and let us not tell our citizens that this is simply not the case. That's the reality. So we're more likely to talk about the form in which it's accepted, and the question is, can it still be done or not? And also to the colleagues who spoke in the context of education. I said it was the last preschool year. And I love the way everything always turns around in the Chamber of Deputies on purpose, and it goes the way it needs to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u63	So now, Mr Jiří Bláha and I have other applications here, so it will be Olga Richterová and then Mikuláš Ferjenčík. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the opposition in this case, and I would like to propose that we really think about this. We have private education, we have private health care, we have private social care, it all works and it works together and together, so I can't imagine why we couldn't have a kindergarten, a nursery, a children's group. It's about thinking and calling things by real names. If we marry the civil servants who are in the nursery at this point, they're definitely taking less to the state budget than the people employed in the children's groups. It's the same with profits, taxes, and everything that comes from these children's groups. So let's put it on some scale, and let's say what's better, and what's better for people, so we can really find the compromise. And it seems to me that we have a race in order to vote this out as quickly as possible and to secure it as soon as possible. Do we still have four months to go? And the moment I think we're gonna make a deal, and we're gonna set it up together, that makes sense. At this point, it's divided into two camps, which is why I suggest we go back to the law, if anyone sees fit, return to the second reading and really discuss it. It's still time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u65	Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear and prepare herself for Mikuláš Ferjenčík. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u66	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if it's that obvious, but we're all in huge agreement here that we want to support the operation of preschool care facilities. There are clear words here that we support state funding. Let's just not pretend it's the state's basic infrastructure. Just as we have support for elderly homes, as we have support for kindergartens, so let us think about the facilities for the smallest children, that this must be part of the basic state funding. And in this remark, I want to point out that it is repeatedly mentioned here, so there is no problem that this House would not be willing to support clear state funding for children's groups. This road is supported by all of us, as it sounds. So why should I ask you to rub your right hand behind your left ear and pretend that we need to paint the children's groups into a so-called nursery so that we can get some funding from the European Union when we need two things: declaring that we are simply paying it like we are paying kindergartens, and, secondly, consider how much the amount is, because, unfortunately, kindergartens are long-term underfunded when it comes to the salaries of teachers who work there, as regards the fact that smaller children in kindergartens should have smaller groups - there should just be fewer children per teacher. And this is the key moment we should be dealing with. That's why I asked about the particular amount of the secretary, so I'm going to ask you again - how calculated are you, how much is the cost of caring for a two-year-old child to be of good quality? And one last thing - the problem with transforming into kindergartens in some children's groups is simply because the Ministry of Education has to put it into a network and that there are higher hygienic and technical demands that there are problems. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u67	Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and subsequently, with Mrs Pekarová's priority right, Adamová. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Aulicka Jírovcová. Unfortunately, I don't see her here, so maybe she listens to me through the screens somewhere in the bowels of the House. She paused on the fact that her statement was supposedly twisted about the education of children, but I don't think so. I think we've all been discussing correctly. We simply find it incomprehensible why, at a time when there is no compulsory schooling between the third and fifth years, the reason why this government coalition wants to ban children between three and five years of attendance in children's groups. Even I personally think there's no reason to forbid them until they go to school - just whether parents decide whether they want to have a child at home, in a children's group or in a kindergarten, they decide freely what suits them. The bonus is that a children's group can be set up faster, so in places where there is no school capacity, children's groups can be made. Then there's a lot of connection, for example, with the mentioned siblings, when the children are two and four years old, Mom would like to start part-time work, and we would ban them from sending both children to one facility. We're making people's lives miserable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u69	Now, with Mrs Adamová Pekarová's priority right, she will prepare herself with the priority right of Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u70	Thank you for the floor. Madam Minister, honourable Members, the time that we are discussing here shows that there is one consensus and a great goal across the political spectrum for the services of the smallest children in the Czech Republic to be as accessible as possible. However, the path that leads to this, according to each of us, is somewhat different in some cases. I remember the debate when this law, which we are updating here, came into being, and I also remember that it was really considered a huge success across the spectrum, because after many years, when parents of children could only dream of providing more affordable services, quality care services for less than three years in the Czech Republic, they finally began to really build a system that has cost this country and, where appropriate, the resources of European money billions of crowns - 8 billion are talking about, which is not small money at all - and, fortunately, it has grown steadily over the years and offered to parents and children the service that they need if they want to combine care for the smallest and return to employment or any other responsibilities. And now, with this approach presented by the current government, in particular, Minister Maláčová, it is that the intention for this target to be fulfilled could be threatened. It's based on a classic slogan that a child can get away with a bathtub, and that's what we're worried about. There is a very clear requirement and the need to ensure a long-term sustainable structure of financing for children's groups. It's not something we feel needed at all. On the other hand, instead of adjusting the law, which is precisely for this lack and this, say, a loophole for future years, when it will no longer be so easy for the Czech Republic to obtain from European money the possibility to finance this type of service, not only to establish it, but also to create traffic, so instead of filling this loophole and solving this problem, the Minister comes up with more robust changes, which in many cases are completely redundant and in many cases threaten the existing groups, their existence, and we can commit that instead of keeping them alive, they will disappear. That's just the way it is, that's what the operators of those groups across the country say. It's not something we make up here, but it's a direct response from practice, feedback. [[12.10 hours]] Therefore, I think that we should all, and especially the Ministry, try to make a really minimalist amendment, which will not have the ambition to change what works, to interfere in what has worked for more than seven years, but will tend to really just the loophole, solve one issue, fix it, and everyone would be happy. I believe that such a law would pass here as a butter knife, as they say - it would be a debate that maybe would be about some partial detail, but it would certainly not be so bland and certainly would not be so bitter. She's justifiably outraged because I don't think that if we're all setting that goal here, and that's a wider, more affordable offer of quality childcare, it can't be done by the way that's outlined. The real choice for parents of smaller children in the Czech Republic in many regions and for many there is even more on paper and on some theoretical level than in the practical one. It's not as bad as it was many years ago, I'm sure I'll agree with everyone who's engaged in this and dealing with this issue, but we still have a lot to fix here. As far as the possibility of getting a child into kindergarten is concerned, it is not a question of whether you have the child and the state guarantees you that it will take care of such a service. In short, there are places where you can place a two-year-old without a problem, and vice versa, where you are happy with a four-year-old to succeed at all. And here this inequality of access to this basic education service, which has worked in the Czech Republic for many decades, is one of the reasons why we, as legislators, have tried many years ago to solve the problem and children's groups, which have combined this very age-related character, where some of the children born at the end of September and they have the problem bigger, others have not, so we have tried to solve it. At least partially succeeded and at the same time solved the insufficient supply of Jeselských devices. And the Minister has now decided that he will actually name the children's group into a nursery so that it can be said as something completely new, so that we can hear now in the election campaign: I have done something new, I have done something new, but it is basically just a cosmetic change of name and important and much more fundamental is the debate about the conditions for operating such a service. As you can see here also in the debate that has already been held, it is obvious here, one can say an idea dispute, whether the state should really intervene so much in the choice of parents, whether he is the one who has to measure everything strictly in the boxes and actually line it up, as it suits him, or whether we trust people, parents, that they want the best for their children and make sure that the service is really good so that there is no harm done to the child in order to be well cared for, it has been well developed including, for example, the education that is often down here. And I'm a supporter of the other approach. I simply believe that the vast majority of parents want only the best for their child, that they care for him to be provided with good care in those services, that he is keeping an eye on it and that, in fact, this system of control from the users of the service themselves, from those who ask for it, is improving. Of course, we can say that we're supposed to have an official, a hygiene officer and a slob who's gonna keep an eye on everything, and to a certain extent, and I don't want to completely downplay it right now, that's what's necessary, that's what we agree. It's not just a question of the market that solves it, it's definitely about having some minimum standard guaranteed here. But it can't be overdone, to put it publicly, with the very approach and to think that only if everything is clearly stated in the law and we describe more pages in the law, so it will work much and much better. It really doesn't have to be that way in practice at all. So I want to achieve the goal that I think we all have, and that is precisely the availability of quality childcare in all regions so that parents can really choose, so that this is their choice. And I absolutely don't want to take the option of letting parents have a five-year-old, four-year-old child in a children's group, because they can have a lot of reasons, whether it's that they have a younger child in a group, and logistically, organizationally, putting one child in one service, and one in another, one in a children's group, or the other in a kindergarten, is a complication for them. And if we want to make it easier for parents to really return to work for them, so that they can combine it with a part-time, which, by the way, we should also be much more supportive - we are doing our best here in the long term, the TOP 09 together with others here has already tabled an amendment several times in this parliamentary term and again it has failed, because there are just some often nonsensical reasons for this, obstacles that government parties do not want to completely look at - so if we want it to work this way for parents, please accept the amendments that have been tabled here several times, and indeed, many of them have the only objective that I have repeated here several times. If these amendments are the ones that can balance the proposal, in order to guarantee both funding, quality, but also the scope of availability, flexibility, the possibility of maintaining the children's group as we know it today, as we know it as a quality service, then this proposal will only be able to have our support as a whole. I can't imagine cutting everything, putting it in that box in the law, and thinking, "It's better now." On the other hand, I can imagine that through enforcement, if this were to come to this - and I know that this leads to a very misguided path, originally the Minister wanted to return the proposal back to second reading, retreat again, I don't know how it has a chance to end up, I really don't know - if any of these changes, at least some of them, best all of them in the bill, so we were just involved in pouring out the bathtub and the baby, and I really don't want to be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u71	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, with priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová will be prepared. Please, madam, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u72	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, for historical truth alone, I must respond to the words of Mrs Adamová Pekarová, because here in the Czech Republic, then Czechoslovakia, care for the smallest children and preschool age was very and very highly developed and was to the extent that we might not have wanted today because there were weekly nursery and so on. And it was right-wing governments and right-wing parties that wiped it out completely in the 1990s, and it was a social democracy that introduced the children's groups that you are fighting for at this moment. I'm sure the secretary will say that we don't eliminate children's groups, we just need to change them a little bit, we just want to set different conditions. And the parent chooses, of course, the parent chooses, but the duty of society is to ensure really adequate conditions for both children and parents, and then let the parent choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u73	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u74	So now that you, my colleague, through the President, have embarked on this historic excursion which I think is quite pointless, I cannot, after all, respond to the fact that there were right-wing governments and so on. I was pulling a duck at the time, so frankly, I had absolutely nothing to do with it. But the fact that the internal nursery, where the children were really there all week and only saw their parents on the weekend, was canceled, I don't think it was something that had to be cried about. I really don't think it was good for anyone. On the contrary, it was our government - we were only part of one government - which, for example, in the case of institutional care for the smallest children, started the trend and change so that the infant constitutions were transformed for the very smallest, and the trend was set from the point of view of fosterhood and so on. Unfortunately, for the two governments that were with your participation, on the contrary, and with your management of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have not moved very far. If it were the way it was planned at the time, since 2013, there haven't even been this kind of service here in the case of baby homes. But back to the nursery. I remember when the debate with Mrs - then quite fresh - by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs Maláčová began, that I told her very well-meaning, friendly advice that the renaming of the nursery would cause a debate that would cover the substance of the proposal, that it was actually pointless to talk about a name that had been here for some time - just a children's group has its place in people's memory today - and that it would take attention elsewhere. And that's exactly what's happening. Not in all cases, but in many cases, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u75	Mr Jan Čižinský is now ready to make a point of fact and Minister Jana Maláčová is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u76	Thank you. I would really like to ask the honourable Member: let us put the undignified conditions on the table here. There are about 16,000 children in children's groups, and the idea that 16,000 children are sleeping in a cellar somewhere is simply not true. If there were one or two cases where it was in inappropriate conditions - maybe, but there really is no prison where people go to put their children in the dungeon. That's really not true. And because of a few cases, throwing the system in the trash is wrong. You're saying that we're going to secure the terms, but I'm just saying, those groups, and specifically in big cities, they're going to cease to exist, they won't be able to exist, because the lighting just comes out at two meters around the window. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u77	Now with priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová. I'll read two apologies quickly. Mr David Kasal apologizes between 12 and 14 o'clock for the reasons of the doctor's visit and Mr František Vácha apologizes between 12 and 14 o'clock for family reasons. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad after more than an hour, I can respond to all this stuff here. As far as Mr Čižinský is concerned: Mr Member, we have written to you the changeling - lighting - and will be supported because that is what almost everyone wants. So don't worry, you don't have to perform here all the time, he'll be supported, we all want to support it. As regards Mrs Pekarová's remark to Adamová. I remember when, in 2018, the Chamber of Deputies here largely approved the abolition of entitlement to a place in a kindergarten for two-year-olds. I recently got it on the road, the stew, and everyone here, under the leadership of Václav Klaus Jr., was chasing the manger. They say two-year-olds don't belong in kindergarten, they belong in day care. We came up with a nursery proposal, and now it's wrong again, because the nursery in you evokes some former regime that was wrong, and that's why it's not called a nursery. Let me tell you something about statistics. According to various opinion polls, parents don't give a damn what it's called, they just want it to be an available service. And all those who said, "Leave your parents the choice: I wish you were in the position of normal parents, don't get a child into kindergarten and pay 8,000 for a children's group." You call this a choice, Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Pekarová Adamová? You call this - 8,000 to 10,000 thousand - the available service and the option of choice? Let your parents have a choice? Like you... I'm sorry, but are you living under normal conditions? Especially when you have two kids? Do you think it's normal and under the conditions that the state puts 10,000 in it every month for every child? Are you telling me that the real cost of that place in the children's group is 18,000, sometimes 20,000 per child? And the caregivers take minimum wage there? [[In an elevated voice.]] There's a problem somewhere, so it's not a functional system. It's a functional system in most cases, but it's not an overall functional system because it's not available. Moreover, there are only 1,100 children's groups in the Czech Republic. When we set up the system in 2015, the estimate was much higher. And please don't push me into saying that we want to eliminate children's groups. We really don't want to. We really don't want to! I was at their birth, too. As head of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, I ran three children's groups, and I dare say that few people know what problems there are. It is true that a large part of the children's groups work well, they are very friendly, but also as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have a criminal report on my desk when the founder has unfair intentions, he does not mean well with the children, and he does not mean well with the parents. And then there's no penalty mechanism, there's no possibility of protection. If, of these children's groups - and unfortunately, such inventors are - they make business, so it's just bad for parents and bad for the children, and there's no way to fix them. So don't tell me it works perfectly, because there's always something better. There's always something better! And let me tell you something else: 60 percent of these children's groups don't use the name of a children's group. They're called cribs, kindergarten, kindergarten, ball, corner, etc. It means it's not about the name. Personally, it doesn't make sense for me to make excuses for a regime that lasted 40 years, and we've been doing it for the last 30 years. Why can't it be called a nursery? It's one-word, people understand it, it's available, it's quality service, and it's called in all foreign languages. Preschool care for the smallest children is called a nursery in English, German, French, all Scandinavian countries - so what's the problem? And if it's just about the title, let's talk about it, but for God's sakes, we're just trying to set up an understandable system here. Most of you are of the great cities. Today, the problem is that three-year-olds don't get into kindergarten, and it's not a mistake that we transform children's groups into a nursery. The problem lies in a completely different cause, in the fact that municipalities do not set up kindergarten. And now we're gonna make them feel better because we're gonna take those two-year-olds away from them so there's room for three-year-olds. 75 percent - 75 percent - children in children's groups are under three years old. Did you know that? We keep saying that on the committee: 75 percent of children in children's groups are under three years old. So the real problem is the insufficient capacity of kindergartens, and if we set up a nursery where there will be enough money, and I will tell Mrs Richterová several times: I think that any amount under 10,000 is liquidation. This means that I will promote at least CZK 10,000 for children's groups as a state contribution. And we have also said that to some colleagues here, whether on the committee's floor or in the galleys, that I have personally come to the conclusion, in the few months, that the amount should have been put into law. For example, it was to double the normalization of kindergarten or two thirds of the minimum wage. We were also prepared to prepare the amendment. But no one wants to eliminate children's groups, really, believe me, on the contrary. With the experience we have in the Ministry, with the knowledge and data we have in the Ministry, we want to help create a clear and accessible system for all parents, because the few thousand a month is not available. That's almost double what people pay on average for housing, so we have to agree on that. Indeed, the Czech Republic lacks a basic network of care for the smallest - a nursery within three years and a kindergarten. Alone, when I'm before... and that's already... She wanted to get a child into kindergarten for four years or three years, it was in Prague 8, so I was advised to extend my parent to four years of my child. Unbelievable! Unbelievable - instead of working together on the system so that people can really choose, because the aim of the crèche proposal is to set conditions for both founders and families so that they do not have to look at money and really decide freely what they want to do, whether they want to care exclusively at home or to reconcile work and family. [[12.30 hours]] We have also had a very honest discussion in the last two years with all the founders of the children's groups, and they do not really care what the device will be called. It's not true that we took the proposal and we just renamed it. We have reduced the age of children, we have introduced a penalty mechanism based on experience from the last six or seven years, we have introduced continuous education, we are trying to increase the quality of carers, although I admit that the change is with a question mark. For me as Minister of Social Affairs, but we can discuss it, after all, no one cares at this point, not mentioned. I think it is important that, if the founder does not meet the conditions laid down by law, so that there is an opportunity to immediately stop funding, because that is the only way to enforce quality. And once again, it is important that the nursery is created in basically every village, every kindergarten, and it doesn't matter if it will be established directly by the community, or if it will be a non-profit organization as with children's groups, but that there will be stable funding from the state budget, and I am glad that we managed to negotiate for the reconstruction or construction from the National Recovery Plan of CZK 7 billion. We really promise that the nursery will grow like mushrooms after the rain, that they will pull the twin-year-olds out of kindergarten and then in kindergarten, there will be room for older children. Last remark: if we have a basic network, there will be no room for business. I am not against private founders and privatization, however, we had it last time at the third reading that it did not work very well with seniors, in the care of seniors, because by letting private subjects into care, so the network did not expand, nor improve, nor make it cheaper, and I think that it can hardly be expected that this would be the case with children's groups. One last point, I apologize: if we fail to make a contribution to children's groups or nursery, we will also have a huge competition problem, because from the point of view of public funding it is indeed incompatible that the State should put so much money into the operation of a network. And I'm saying that today it's 9,900, roughly, it's based on attendance, probably most of you know the system. That means when a child gets sick, that's what the amount goes down. And we're changing that in this amendment to the law, that's also important to say. However, if you put so much money into it and at the same time the founder can collect unlimited funds from parents - and you know that the extremes are also 15,000, as well as 15,000 - then it is a violation of competition, it could have a fatal impact on the functioning of the law's effectiveness as such. So please, let's go back to reality. Nobody wants to destroy it, nobody wants to destroy it. We're trying to create a system that works for everyone. The aim is to relieve kindergartens and not eliminate children's groups. I'm so sorry it's going to be so political. I am really very sorry, but I am convinced that we have tried to create the best possible system within the current possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u79	The Minister's speech raised many factual points. I'll read the order to keep an eye on you, colleagues. So Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Jana Černochová, Jiří Bláha, Vlastimil Válek, Olga Richterová, Marek Benda. So we'll take the order. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be the first to speak, you have two minutes, and Mrs Jana Černochová will prepare herself, all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would warn the Minister that she can apply to factual remarks like everyone else, so that she doesn't have to cry that she didn't get to speak for an hour. You can sign up like everyone else. Well, that's just for starters. Anyway, I'd like to ask you for some rational justification for your socialist nonsense that you're helping your parents by putting down the amount that they can pay for that child group. The result is that the service isn't going to happen! It is quite simple: when a parent puts a child in a children's group, he may normally take an average wage in Prague, which will be close to 40,000 crowns a month, so he will think very much about the fact that 8,000 or 9,000 is an acceptable amount for him to go to work so that he can normally make a living and pay rent. And by putting it on the line, some of the services that will be more expensive just won't exist, so parents won't be able to put the children there or put them in private preschools for even more money, and you won't be helping anyone. So, please, if the way money is handled in those groups, but given that it's nonprofits, I don't think anybody's gonna make a big deal out of it. Anyway, let's solve the cost of these groups, but they are, in large cities, diametrically different from small towns. They just need the money somewhere, or maybe their parents want to have a group of fewer kids, they're willing to pay extra for it, and I don't see any reason not to. And I point out, even for people with average pay, it's a service that can be interesting. They want some special care for their children, and let's leave it to them for God's sake. Surely they are able to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u81	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Jana Černochová. I'm just pointing out that the Minister has already applied for a factual remark, but only after Marek Benda, in order. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Very telegraphic: Madam Secretary, it must have been awkward when they didn't take your child to Prague 8 and they answered how they answered. Guess who was in the coalition? ČSSD with YES. Otherwise, I don't know where you get the information that we don't want a nursery? We want to, I even have two crèches in Prague 2! But I want those children's groups, and I have children's groups. And even Mrs. Gajdůškovášková has said it for the third time, even in Prague 2, we have a kindergarten which has a boarding school character, where children are especially placed by hospital workers working in the police, working in the army and having an exchange operation. So leave it really to the representatives of the authorities who know what parents demand in their community, what they demand there and what they lack in terms of some demographic developments. And don't tell us we don't want a nursery, we don't want to use that word. I'm proud of the fact that we never canceled the nursery on two, that they were with us all the time, and that even the demand for the nursery was such that we had to look for other spaces where we could make the second branch of the nursery so that there were one in London Street and the other in Little Stepan. And I repeat: If you want to consult someone who has a long experience, how it works in practice, and not just at the ministerial desk, come to Prague 2, I will be happy to explain these things to you, and I will be happy to show you these things and hope that you will have positive consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u83	Mr. Jiří Bláha will now take the stand and prepare himself for Vlastimil Válek. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure the Minister, of course I understand her words, I completely understand her words, because we have the possibility of European money here. But there's nothing stopping us from setting up the nursery. Let's set them up as an alternative for those people who really don't have money and, on the other hand, leave the children's groups, but let's leave them in the simplified version because, of course, the nursery has some rule, it has to comply with millions and millions of regulations and privileges and so on and so on and so on. [[12.40 hours]] Personally, I think it's the right alternative to the children's groups covering up when there's a shortage of something. And it's gonna find a place next to it. We're going to have a nursery where those people who don't want to pay for the children's groups, and on the other hand, we're going to have a children's group that if they don't defend their place in the sun, they're going to go bankrupt. But please, let's leave them roughly the same financial possibilities, because today, for example, in education, private high schools or apprentices get far less to teach than to state. For me, this is incomprehensible, discriminatory, and they often offer better care. So let's create subjects next to each other, and I believe it's gonna be okay. Believe that the extra money that we put into the children's groups will just be returned to us on taxes and charges for normal employees. If we have more and more civil servants, there'll be less and less money in the state register, because we'll get less for the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u85	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now appear and Mrs Olga Richterová will prepare herself, still factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'm trying to collect information. The entry, when I went to this meeting, from our chief nurse, was clear: Please, Vlastík, don't let the children's groups - Erno, hello. The same was the assignment from our nurses, from our doctors, simply because many of them have children in children's groups. If they cancel, they'll stop coming to work because the kids have nowhere to put them. If this is the target, please, someone say it out loud here who has this target, it's simple, it's fair game. It'll make my life easier when I get back, so I can say, "They, those and those who don't want you to go to work, cancel the children's groups." From my point of view, I just don't care if a child goes to a high-quality children's group or a high-quality kindergarten. I want both kindergartens and children's groups available. Where there may be children's groups, let us support them. Where kindergarten can be, let's support them. What I want is for those women who have children to go back to work, do what they're alive, and put the children where they're safe and where they're taken care of. I'm 100% sure they're both children's groups and kindergartens. I don't understand the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u87	Olga Richterová will now appear, Mr. Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u88	Thank you for the floor. I have some specific questions about what the Minister said, therefore, in this factual case. Madam Secretary mentioned some criminal charges, so I'm wondering how many there are. She mentioned that some children's groups pay a minimum wage. Once again, I would ask for proof of this claim of how many such groups of children you actually have, because I do not know of any such. I'd also like to know who's gonna set up the nursery you're talking about because that's where the construction costs are. So how do you take into account the need to support this input investment, the construction costs? If there's a shortage of kindergartens, as you said, Madam Secretary, then why forbid older children to be in children's groups? As for the lighting -- well, it's important new information that it's a match to remove the lighting nonsense, but will there be certainty that they won't need to be finished with the fire floors and all that? Again - the transformation to kindergarten, which you recommend, is difficult because there are other conditions and conditions. Last question: The total cost of the operation of the children's group varies according to the region and by the size of the group. It's just a little more operationally expensive to have small groups. All of this has to be taken into account in your proposed ceiling. Have you taken that into account? So if I sum it up, we have some very specific questions here. This discussion is factually in order not to cancel a service that works, and the aim is to create a nursery, a nursery at kindergarten is a good idea, but also to keep children's groups, children's groups, such as hospitals or elderly homes, which offer a great deal of flexibility and support to employees in particular of these facilities. And maybe not canceling it is my goal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u89	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Marek Benda and subsequently on the point of fact, Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u90	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, really only in fact. I didn't want much to interfere with this debate, but when I overheard that explicit ideological speech by the Minister about how it must be managed by the state at all costs, as we made a huge mistake that the private sector was allowed into the care of the elderly, and how it is essential that we drive the private sector out of the care of the children, and into that sentence as "a nursery at every kindergarten," it is, yes, of course, Marxův's old idea, which they tried to fill in in the Soviet Union, that children need to be taken from home and raised by the state. I consider this to be a very misguided, very unfortunate idea. I think that children are to be raised primarily by their parents, to be primarily in the care of their parents, mostly by their mothers, but in many cases by their fathers, it is completely pointless to create systems that will be pulled out of the family environment as quickly as possible. Yes, of course, there are parents who have some interest in the job, they don't want to take care of the child, they have a job in which a longer blackout would mean losing a profession or something like that. But let us really try more to encourage domestic education, especially for young children under two, within three years. It's just not normal to raise kids like that in collective institutions. So all the arguments that are made here by the Minister, as we need to introduce the nursery everywhere, are really arguments from the last century and from the previous regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u91	Madam Secretary Jana Maláčová's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u92	Thank you. You know what, I'm really sorry that because we're running endless fireworks of factual remarks that aren't de facto related to the present law, children's groups aren't really gonna know what they're up to. I am very sorry about Mr Ferjenčík's remark, which in one sentence calls for substance and insults me with the other sentence. We're not gonna get that far. As for Mrs Černochová, she wants a nursery. You're in the coalition with the COO with Mrs Pekarová Adamová. She doesn't want to go back to the nursery, so please talk to me and let me know how you vote. One nursery wants, the other one doesn't want, and one person understands. As long as you're SPOLU. As for Mr. Ferjenčík, I'll count it for you. If the average cost of running the children's group is CZK 11,000 per child and we expect a contribution from the state of at least CZK 10,000, then the ceiling makes sense, because if we go to the state contribution of 10,000 and the ceiling of CZK 4,000, please explain to me how it is for those children's groups of liquidation. In Prague it costs an average of 12 000 crowns in a children's group. If they get 10,000 from the state and 4,000 will be the maximum allowance from the parents, please explain to me how it's liquidation. It's not liquidation, it's not liquidation, once again, it's not liquidation. Everyone will have room to finance their operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u93	One factual point - Mr Jiří Bláha and then Mrs Kovářová is prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u94	I would simply ask the Minister, through Mr President, at this point in time, the quicker the decision, the greater the uncertainty for the children's groups, but for anything. Let's really put it together together, and especially tell the children's groups: Nothing will get worse for you, we're looking for better support for your functioning. At the same time, of course, we can assure the public that the nursery will be, and that will be the clear message. Whether we decide today or next month is not important. The important thing is that the people at the end will know that they know about it, that we know about it as politicians, because now we are often lost in it, and most importantly, that we are concerned about the final outcome. [[12.50 hours]] And I wanted to say one more thing - I have a minute to do it, I can do it faster: the fact that the children's groups aren't working somewhere is in bad conditions, so it's someone who authorized them. Those criteria are hard enough and clear enough to make it work great everywhere. It's just about the surveillance bodies, the city, the city's founder or the authorities they're supposed to be overseeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u95	Now, with Mrs Věra Kovářová's priority right, Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to read legislative technical adaptations, in case amendments B4 and B7 are adopted. If both B4 and B7 are adopted, the wording "§ 20d para. Amendment 1 as amended by Amendment B4" to amend as follows: in § 20d para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the text "§ 20a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b)'shall be replaced by 'Article 20a (2) '. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (b) and (d)."; The essence of these amendments lies in the legislative technical link between the two amendments and in the addition of the reference also to point (d) § 20a para. 1 which is added to § 20a (?) in Amendment B6. So much legislative technical regulation. And now let me also comment on the topic of children's groups or nursery groups for the Mayors and Independents Club. I would like to remind you, because I was here at the time when children's groups were approved, I was a great supporter of the formation of children's groups, so I would like to remind you why children's groups were actually formed. They were created as an alternative for those parents, mostly mothers who wanted or had to return to work for financial reasons, also for students, for companies and ministries, and at the same time also represented an alternative to kindergarten schools, because of the fact that a smaller group, adaptation to kindergarten school, and instead just found children in children's groups, for whom a very inappropriate large group of children was in kindergarten. Another reason for this proposal was to allow pre-school facilities in small municipalities where the municipality could not establish a kindergarten - either it did not have the money for such a large investment or it had few children and thus would not finance the operation. And the third, very serious reason was to temporarily and partially help address the lack of capacity of kindergartens in and around large cities. It was a transitional and really partial solution. However, the time that we thought would build up the capacity of kindergarten schools is extended to decades, because it turns out that the relocation of the population is so extraordinary, and especially small and, respectively, young families with young children, that a huge shortage of kindergartens and capacities in certain regions - and there is simply a need for this to be said, in certain regions - continues. I must say that it has been said that some amendments are not entirely good or that this will not change the situation. I think there were reservations about the law. Therefore, I would like to ask you for an amendment which can pull the thorn out of the heel with the financing of children's groups or nursery groups, which we do not yet know, and this is the amount from the state or the state budget. The reason why we tabled this amendment is the following - that it was originally intended to be financed from the state budget only on the basis of a normality, on salaries and wages, and that would put them at a great disadvantage compared to kindergarten schools, where the pillar is a standard for salaries and wages and other operating costs borne by the municipality, which, of course, receives the money de facto from the state budget on the basis of the number of children in the kindergarten. That is why we have introduced the very pillar in this amendment, which says that the State will also finance the other operating costs, not just wages and salaries. I am pleased that there is agreement on this amendment, because this will allow for greater flexibility in the contribution from the State. Another amendment that we are making is that children's groups would be preserved until schooling in small municipalities. These municipalities invested relatively large money in the order of millions in each municipality in the repair of some older buildings and set up a children's group precisely because they wanted to have preschool facilities on their cadaster so that parents would not have to drive children somewhere else, and mostly because the children did not get into kindergartens in the surrounding municipalities. I firmly believe that you will understand the urgency of this situation and that you will also support this amendment. There has been a big debate about whether it is appropriate to put the age limit on three years, and it has also been said here that we want all parents to be able to put their children in preschool facilities. Unfortunately, the situation - and now believe me, I know well the regions where there is insufficient capacity for kindergarten schools and those children's groups are actually helping parents to have a place to put their child in preschool facilities. For example, it shows clearly - Madam Secretary, I will say one very interesting case, and it is not unique. The new Knín is not far from Prague in Central Bohemia. He invested big money in the construction of a large elementary school, where the city's budget basically bled out, and before that, he bled to death for large investments in sewerage. In the surroundings of Nový Knín, it is built in an incredible way and the split land has been there for many years. And now there has been such a serious situation that, thanks to the children's groups around Nový Knín, children have been going there since they were three years old and taking children away, or helping the city of Nový Knín by putting children in preschool facilities. As soon as the age is up to three years, the municipality has no place to put children, and according to the law it must provide pre-school facilities from three years. Unfortunately, there are no such facilities in the surrounding villages, and there's no point in driving the children far away. Madam Secretary, this is more of a request, because we in the regions who know it, Prague, Central Bohemia, in the vicinity of Brno, now and in the vicinity of Olomouc, it begins to appear even in the surroundings of Pardubice. [[13.00 hours]] I just want to ask you to consider whether it would not be possible, because the number of rejected applications for a post in kindergarten is still rising. A few years ago it was 29,000, last year it was 33,000, and this year it's probably still growing. And that, Madam Secretary, is not the question or the criticism of you. There I ask why the Ministry of Education hasn't written a grant title for the construction of kindergarten schools for two years, even though it knows that the lack of capacity is huge. So it's 30,000 children who can't or won't get into kindergarten. Therefore, the request: Would it not be possible in any way to consider moving the border to four years, as I think my colleague Golasowská has in the amendment, for some temporary period of time, so that the children can be placed in children's groups? 'Cause otherwise, the parents won't have anywhere to put the kids. And if we're talking about wanting moms to have the opportunity to go to work, for whatever reason, this is the moment when they just don't get to work, because they don't have a place in a preschool facility. I was still watching - about how you talked, how many children, how old he is in children's groups. You're right, within three years, within two years is 16 percent, up to three years is 48 percent, so we have about 64 of them, but here I have different readings. [[speaks towards Minister Maláčová]] However, up to five years, that means three to five, 31 percent of children in children's groups. That means they're the ones that probably won't get into kindergarten. So we see that the children's groups have proven themselves. You want to create a system, but unfortunately the system will expose some parents to - and not enough - that they will not be able to put the child in kindergarten. So my request is: Please, let's try to think again about moving the age limit for a certain period of time at least, or just pick it up so that there are enough places in preschool facilities for all the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u97	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. We will continue the debate. Mr Ferjenčík is now registered with a factual remark. Then we'd get proper applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u99	I'm gonna ask you to calm down at the newsletter's desk, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u100	I wanted to respond to the Minister. I don't think I insulted her. I just called her proposal socialist nonsense. That's two different things. One thing is a person, and the other thing is a person's design. And indeed, when the Minister presents socialist nonsense, there is nothing offensive about this socialist nonsense to name it. The problem with this proposal is that the Minister forbids people from using any kind of service. They completely ignore that some of the children's groups have to finance, for example, the reconstruction of the premises from the money they collect, so that the costs are much larger than those of the children's groups, which, for example, were built by municipalities. In that case, of course, the average amount you're operating here won't be enough for them, and you're just gonna eliminate these groups. They used to take credit for it, and now you're just gonna wipe them out, and you're still pretending that you're doing it for those parents to help them. And that's why I say it's socialist nonsense, and I stand by it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u101	Thank you. She has yet to come forward with a factual remark from Mrs Kovářová's diaper, and then I see the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u102	I would like to respond here to the Minister's remark on why land is being sold. We already know this from the case of lack of primary school capacity. Unfortunately these problems arose, unfortunately already in the year, let's say, 2000. If you have a territorial decision, somewhere even a building permit, the developer and I are having a hard time arguing back. The mistakes were made, that's true, but the situation is critical, and in a critical situation, it is necessary to adopt a solution to resolve the crisis. If we don't do this and we don't help those communities, it's unfortunately gonna fall on parents and children. About the funding. When you look at different groups of children in different places, basically the contribution from parents is created by the market or by the purchasing power of the locality. In short, in different locations there are various high rents and that is the reason - and it is the same as the lack of capacity in kindergarten schools, it is simply exceptionally regional. So, if there is still a need for this debate, to ensure that, where kindergartens are the highest contribution from parents, there is probably also the highest demand for those services to be able to stay - first, and that there are no such cases as in the New Kníňa, that if it is put there at the age of three, those children's groups will actually disappear because children have been there since they were three years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u103	Thank you. I still received a factual statement from the Minister. Before I give her my word, I'll introduce the House with a note. Mrs Levová apologizes for today's meeting for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u104	I do not want to prolong this, however, to Mr Ferjenčík. If you consider it socialist nonsense to allow parents and children to afford a nursery or a children's group, then you should sort out your values a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u105	Thank you. We've exhausted the de facto... We didn't. Mr Ferjenčík reports with a factual remark. I'll note that at 13.10 we have a fixed point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u106	Thank you for the floor. I'm just opposed to you banning parents from sending children three to five years of age into children's groups. I also oppose you forbidding your parents to fund their children's group voluntarily from their money so that they can send their children there. That's what I'm defining myself against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u107	Thank you And now, therefore, would be given the floor to Mr Bauer in the remaining time. If it runs out, I will interrupt it and, of course, it will be able to resume when this point is reopened. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, if I hadn't taken the floor through the facts, I wouldn't have gotten to the floor at all, and I'm aware that in a minute or two minutes we're going to close the hearing because we have a fixed point, so first of all, I'm going to use it to make a motion for a repeat at second reading. This is first of all from my mouth, and also from my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party. Our positions and our views on this amendment have already been heard, and I would perhaps just like to repeat it in that shortened time - I may not be able to do it completely, but still. The attitude of the Civil Democratic Party to the amendment to the Act on the provision of services in a children's group has been quite clear from the outset, and we have repeatedly said it here in public. You have heard this at first reading, but also today at the second reading meeting, but, of course, during the discussion on the Committee on Social Policy. We believe that this proposal should not have entered into a legislative process at all. It deserved to be returned to the government for recasting, which we have also proposed, to address purely and exclusively the financing of children's groups after it is not possible to use European resources for their creation and further development. And I have also said it here today once: I am very sorry that we have remained alone in this proposal and that this proposal did not find any significant support during the vote at first reading. [[13.10 hours]] On the other hand, it is absolutely unimaginable for us that the government is liquidating one of the few things that has helped thousands of families in recent years and which, moreover, is returning to the state register the resources that the state has put into it because children's groups have untied thousands of families with young children throughout the Republic and thus enabled their parents to return to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-004-333.u109	Mr. Ambassador, I didn't want to interrupt you before there was a noise, but now the time has run out, so I have to interrupt this point. I thank the appellant, the rapporteur, and I am now opening a point which we have firmly placed at this time, which is a point number
