ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u1	7. Proposal by Members Jan Bauer, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and some other laws / House printing 290/- second reading Mr Jan Bauer shall state the application submitted for the applicant. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, after the break, we have reached the House's 290 press. The Minister of Finance is here, so maybe he will expand his information, horizons, about the batch system in the Czech Republic. However, as has been said, we are at second reading. Before I briefly introduce you to the short amendments that I have read into the system, I think it is polite for me to say briefly to the analysis of this House press and maybe just what it is about. The original proposal for an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, that is, the House Press 290, I have, or my fellow translators and I have already submitted in October 2018, so it has been a really long time. I would like to say that it was built on the fact that the perpetrators of serious - and here I repeat, serious and repeated offences will be temporarily excluded from aid in material distress, as the current law suggests in some other cases. Here I would just like to point out, perhaps it will be mentioned here in the discussion that the current law in material distress - and perhaps not everyone is simply reading it in the evenings - allows some sinners to be excluded from this system. [[on assistance]] Just for your information, for example, those who are not actively looking for a job or those who do not send their children to schools can also be excluded from the system of material distress in this present law. This means that the benefits can already be withdrawn from them in the present law. It must also be added that the Government has adopted a neutral position on this proposal. On the other hand, it stated in that opinion that, as a more appropriate path to this direction, which according to the Government's view is not bad, the intention appears to be by taking down fines for these serious and repeated offences. That means the original proposal was to exclude from material distress, the current proposal is to remove fines. We really accepted the government's recommendation. We redesigned the original proposal, just like we made it. We have really pre-conditioned the government's position, and we have built this amendment on the concept of levying fines for serious and repeated offences. I also think it is polite to say that my aim really was not to chase political points in this case, but I wanted to work together with my colleagues on the Social Committee, but practically with all of you on some solution that could work in practice. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Social Policy approved the comprehensive amendment and recommended it to the Chamber of Deputies. I also want to say that I have tried from the outset to cooperate with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, with all the experts. Unfortunately, that was not possible at the initial stage. I don't want to repeat all the reasons here, but the cooperation was really freezing. I don't know why, but I guess I'm not the only one with this experience. I must also say that after this proposal has been passed by the Committee on Social Policy, the position of the Ministry of Labour has changed, they have provided us with their experts, their experts, the Deputy Minister and they have worked with us not only on this comprehensive amendment, but also on some amendments that I will introduce here in a few moments. I would therefore also like to thank the Government Legislative Council for cooperating on this. I would like to thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in contrast to the initial disapproval, because experts from the Ministry of Labour really participated in the final version and it is worth thanking them for that. Therefore, the amendments tabled do not deviate from the concept approved by the Committee and merely refine it and regulate certain legislative details. [[15.30 hours]] The proposal introduces another regime for offences involving the tolerance and promotion of child training and other arrangements for other offences against public order, property and civil coexistence, and complements certain technical matters such as limitation periods. As regards tolerance and support for truancy, the proposal leaves the existing scheme for the possibility of levying fines, introducing the principle once and for all. It is based on the fact that not sending children to schools is the most serious of the offences to which the proposal is intended. For other offences, the known rule is to apply three times and enough, as we have named it on business, i.e. fines will be withdrawn from benefits only at the third and the next offense, with the exception that is strictly contingent in the law. The second amendment, which I also sign up for in a detailed debate, is rather technical. These are offences again on the basis of recommendations from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is a violation of the obligation laid down by a generally binding decree of the municipality for the organisation, conduct and termination of publicly accessible sports, cultural enterprises, including dance entertainment and discotheques. So much for presenting my two amendments, which are read as four in the system, because I am reading both the two amendments on both the original proposal and the comprehensive amendment. Maybe in the end, I think it's important. You know, my colleagues and I had basically two options after we all got here many times and visited excluded localities in the Czech Republic, whether it is the Moravian-Silesian Region, Ústecký Region or Karlovarský, but also other places. There really were dozens of these meetings. I confess, I wasn't one of those guys who used to go there to take pictures or stay there somewhere. I tried really hard with my colleagues to interview the mayors, but also social union workers. We promised we'd do something about it. And there were two options. Be yelling, swearing, lamenting, and that's practically going nowhere. And the second option is to prepare a short amendment that can at least contribute something to the situation in these locations. We've come up with the other way, which means we're coming up with this little proposal. And I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Social Policy, who have been very helpful in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u3	I thank Mr Bauer as the appellant for the introductory words. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered to us as House prints 290/2 to 290/4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not present the proposal itself, which was presented by the appellant himself in detail. The Social Policy Guarantee Committee discussed the bill proposal and issued 10. 9. 2020 resolution on delivery to Members, as Mr President said, as press 290/4, which I will now introduce to you. Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 55th meeting of 9 September 2020 on the proposal by Members of Jan Bauer, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and some other laws, such as the House press 290. After Mr Jan Bauer's introductory words, a representative of the group of petitioners, a report by Jana Pastuchová, and after a debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, he recommends, first, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the proposal by Members of Jan Bauer, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended, and some other laws, House press 290, as amended by the comprehensive amendment adopted - which I will not be able to read the whole here, which is in the resolution. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. That's for the rapporteur. I'll sign up on my own later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u5	Thank you. Yes. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Richterová, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Aulická, is signed. However, we have here with priority right the application of Mr Cernohorsky. And, of course, I will remind you that, in any case, there is a need to sign up for the proposals in a detailed debate. Mr. Cernohorsky. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. I do not usually comment on social issues, but in this case I also got my hands on a letter from the Ombudsman, Dr Stanislav Křeček, who, in this case, gives an opinion on this House press, namely the House press 290. I'd like to read it to you: Madam, honourable Member, I appeal to you in the context of the discussion of the proposal by Members of Jan Bauer and others on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and so on. Since this is a parliamentary proposal which I have not been able to comment on in the standard comment procedure, I would like to send you my opinion on it in this way. Since the original proposal has made a number of amendments in the course of its discussion, I am expressing it in the wording of Mr Jan Bauer's comprehensive amendment. I would like to begin by expressing my concern that the imposition of sanctions on the benefits of aid in material distress for the repeated commission of certain offences, in the case of truancy, is sufficient one, occurs at the time of the pandemic of coronavirus. The social consequences of the pandemic can be expected to be felt most by the poorest. I am even more concerned about the possible impact of the proposal on families with careless children. As much as I understand the seriousness of the offence concerning compulsory schooling, especially for single parents, it may actually be possible for the family to live only on the minimum amount of non-funded children for a few months when applying the proposed legislation. The cumulative effects of current and proposed legislation on the situation of families with dependent children can therefore essentially be liquidated. I see the risk of deepening poverty and social exclusion in families with careless children as significant, and I believe that the negatives are greater than the possible benefits of the deterrent of the sanctions proposed by the proposer. In more detail, the doctor is now commenting on Article 1 of Mr Bauer's amendment, the deduction from the subsistence allowance and the housing fee to pay fines: [[15.40 hours]] The proposal introduces in Section 51a a special adjustment of the deductions from the subsistence allowance and the housing surcharge for the payment of fines for selected offences. The payment of fines from criminal proceedings is under the so-called divided administration regime. As a result, it is currently among the so-called preferential claims, for which it is possible to make higher wage reductions. The proposed adjustment of the fines collected makes, in principle, privileged claims among all other preferential public claims, including, for example, various types of taxes, public health insurance premiums or social security, when it expressly allows for the treatment of otherwise inconvenient benefits of aid in material distress, that is to say, a subsistence allowance and a housing supplement. The protection of benefits in material distress was enshrined in § 317 para. 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure because it is intended to serve solely to ensure the basic needs of the beneficiary and his family. The legislation on the provision of benefits in material distress in connection with their protection in the execution procedure constitutes the fulfilment of Article 30 (1) of the Treaty. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, under which it is guaranteed to everyone in material need, the right to ensure the assistance necessary to safeguard fundamental living conditions. The proposed legislation, which breaks the impermissibility of these benefits in the execution procedure, completely ignores this. The subsistence allowance is used to ensure the basic living conditions of the persons considered together, excluding the cost of living. [[And?]] The housing supplement is provided to cover housing costs for persons who, despite the housing allowance granted, cannot pay housing costs or are not entitled to the housing allowance for certain reasons. This is therefore aid to the poorest people. If these benefits are affected in the execution proceedings, it is not only possible to talk about a certain reduction in the comfort of their eaters as in the case of the execution of other taxable income and property. The idea that these individuals will not meet their basic needs for some time is illusionary. On the contrary, it can be reasonably feared that some of them will try to compensate for the loss of such income in illegal ways. The proposed legislation is even stricter than the existing haircut regulation in § 51 para. 6 a law on assistance in material distress, according to which the amounts of benefits received in material distress can also be wrongly deducted from the normally paid or later granted recurring benefit. This can be considered to be a specific provision of public netting, where the recipient of the benefit had previously unlawfully drawn funds from the same system. However, even in this case, the rule is that, following the introduction of the deduction, the minimum amount of the existential minimum must be kept by the obliged person and persons with it together. If children are not provided for among the persons considered together, each of them must remain at least the minimum amount of their life. This is therefore an exception to the general rule of the inhospitability of benefits of assistance in material distress justified by the specific circumstances of the occurrence of overpayment on a levy with a guarantee keeping the existential or living minimum. In the case of the proposed legislation, there are no sufficient grounds for breaking the principle of inadequacy of benefits of assistance in material distress. The proposal also does not address how deductions should be made from the housing surcharge, although the intention is clear from the heading of § 51a. In the opinion of the expert literature on the said section 51 paragraph. In practice, it is not recommended to make deductions from the housing surcharge when this levy is intended to cover the necessary housing costs, by reducing the overpayment haircuts would endanger the proper remuneration of these costs and the associated risk, such as termination of the lease contract, the withdrawal of energy supplies and the like. In the opinion of Dr. Křeček, the deduction from the housing surcharge is completely contrary to the very purpose of the Act on Aid in Material Need, even for those to whom an administrative penalty has been imposed. It is also inefficient to do so in families with careless children, even though the parent committed an offence concerning compulsory schooling. However, the draft law does not provide any guarantee that such a procedure will not take place. For these reasons, I believe that the proposed legislation, without legitimate reasons, disproportionately interferes with the constitutionally guaranteed right to ensure the assistance necessary to safeguard fundamental living conditions, practically excluding a group of persons from it, and thus adversely affects not only the lives of individuals but also the entire society. In addition, I note that I have doubts as to how beneficial it is at all for the municipal authorities themselves with extended scope. They have the possibility of handing enforcement to the customs authorities for the current legislation. The new legislation also represents an increase in administration for these municipal authorities, covering only a fraction of the period during which these claims can be recovered and with a very uncertain result. I recommend not to accept the amendment of the law in this form. On this basis, I am making a motion to reject this law, with the fact that, of course, we are dealing with this at the beginning of the third reading. I remind you that this position was drawn up by the Ombudsman, Dr Stanislav Křeček, in this case I will probably respect his opinion very much, even though I do not agree with him on many other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u7	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová wants to respond with priority law. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all received this letter, so thank you for reading it, but we have already read it. I would like to say that for the YES movement, or I think that we voted in favour of this proposal, and I believe that we will support it, because we have in the Government's programming statement that we will change the system for granting benefits. Unfortunately, we did not receive such a law from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We have pointed this out to the Committee on Social Policy that, unfortunately, if this does not happen, we will approach the amendments to the Members, which has happened, from Mr Bauer, and in a moment we will also discuss the House Press 652 on the material emergency presented by Mrs Šafránková, by your means, and where, as members of the ANO movement, we have joined a comprehensive amendment which, at least somehow, responds to a change in the payment of these benefits. This is for the members of the Social Committee of the ANO movement. I'm glad these proposals are here. I'd just like to say that I'm very impressed, and I'm going to be very curious about how the starosta are going to vote here, because it's from the Mayors that things like this happen in their communities. And if anyone knows the proposal, we call it three times and enough on the Social Committee, so it's like you're gonna commit a three-time offense and something's gonna have to happen, so I'm gonna be really curious about the starosta calling for it. The pirates here have read us a letter from the Ombudsman, that's fine, but this bill is not just for the time of covid. It's just the law forever, and no mayor, no mayor of the city or any of the citizens, we don't want to commit crimes repeating in our cities and in our communities or neighbors. So I have a feeling that by making a motion to dismiss the pirát, everyone can actually commit -- you read us what happens when they do it three times, because if the man doesn't do anything, then nothing will happen to him. Let's all behave ourselves, let's not commit crimes, and then there will be no such thing as taking your benefits and things like that. We agreed. We are pleased that this proposal is here, and I am really looking forward to looking forward to watching the pirát vote, who have put forward a motion to reject, versus the starosta, who are now forming one coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u9	Thank you. We will vote on the motion for rejection at third reading. With a factual remark, Mr Čižinský is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u10	Thank you for the floor. I might have responded to my colleague through you. What is needed in our cities and municipalities is the law on social housing. It is a support for municipalities to be able to and financially manage to build apartments so that they can actually deal with the social situation of their citizens. That's what needs to be done. I would really like to reject the impression that someone here is defending some offenses or crimes. Please, I know it is before the elections, but really the one who warns against the impact of this bill on underage children, for example, is not at all the one who defends offences or crimes. Now is really not a good time. People who two years ago had no idea that they could get into this type of trouble got into trouble because of the crisis. [[15.50 hours]] If we want to do it the other way around, that is. First, to allow municipalities to build apartments with the help of the state, and then to start dealing with the situation of those who live in inappropriate housing, if we want to do it the other way around, which is this proposal, the other way around... Yeah, there's a majority here, she's gonna say it. But it's extremely wrong. The proposals are as if someone liked to live in inadequate conditions, and they are assumed that everyone could live better next week. Unfortunately, that contradicts reality, that's just not it. And I really allow myself to post a clear assumption that this proposal is coming at an entirely inappropriate time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u11	Thank you and Mrs Aulická will respond with a point of fact, then Mr Juchelka and then Mr Bauer. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be logged in, but I must simply respond to my previous speakers through you. So, with permission, how can I say this in a coordinated manner to the President, who presides, has literally dialed me up when he spoke about what we are actually considering today, i.e.: discussing these two proposals, i.e.: House press 290 and 652 when it's just not the right time. Right time, I guess that's what we've been waiting for for four, five, six years. And I think we're going to be putting everything on the pandemic right now, because it's the pirát that don't like this proposal. We know that, but I am glad that there is always a majority in the Chamber of Deputies who have reason and perceive the reality of life. For us, the arguments and the parameters on which it is based are important, i.e. regions, social workers, the employment office. And unfortunately, no one's talked to them all the time. And I'll keep talking. I'm very sorry he's using Mr. Ombudsman's arguments here. I appreciate Mr. Křeček very much. On the other hand, Mr. Ombudsman's institute on this issue to all the municipalities, all the regions were very difficult. But it wasn't for Mr. Křeček, unfortunately it was for Mrs. Ombudswoman. All the measures they tried to give, whether they were decrees, were all torn down and everything was said to be unconstitutional or illegal. And communities and regions no longer know how to defend themselves. 15 measures taken in the middle or end of 2018. Nothing's been done until then. Six ministries, almost nobody was working on it. And a big novel about housing additions from the MPSV just dropped because of the PR ČSSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u13	Thank you, thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Juchelka, Mr Bauer will be prepared for a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u14	Thank you very much. I would also like to comment on the previous speakers, especially through you to Lukáš Černohorský. We're from the same region. But only a few numbers to start with. There have been several billion crowns in social inclusion in the last x years. Since then, the number of excluded sites has increased to double. At this point we have 606, 115,000 people live there. We meet regularly with the mayors at such a meeting in Ostrava-South, where we have an excellent mayor, Mr Bednář, who is trying to communicate with these people, who is trying to work with these people in some way, trying to educate them in these localities. And it all ends up de facto by throwing games on the wall, because it just doesn't lead anywhere. We need to give the mayors, municipalities, ammunition some kind of tool so that they can finally do something about it. We can't just keep waiting for something to protect human rights. And de facto, the city police that are coming in there are literally, and they're being ostracized, they're being mocked because they don't have any tools to do anything. So I challenge you, Mr. Black Mountain, come to the microphone here and advise the mayors what to do. What are they supposed to tell those neighbors who need to sleep in the morning at work, and they're playing music at 2:00 in the morning? What are they supposed to do? How are they supposed to react? What are the police supposed to do?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u15	Thank you, thank you for keeping time. Mr Bauer now, then Mr Černohorský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u16	Mr Vice-President, I'm just gonna take notes as a petitioner, then maybe I'll come out at the end, 'cause it's not worth stalling with the de facto ones. But yet only one factual one. To the Margo by Mr Lukáš Černohorský through Mr President. Unfortunately, I must state - reading the text for one, understanding the text for five. I'm sorry. But since the law's been here for 2.5 or 3 years, I've been through some media performances, media and radio fights. I understand that we're at different levels of information, and that if somebody's talking about it - I know you've read Mr. Ombudsman for example - it would really take a lot to read the original proposal, then the complex changeling, so we all know what it's all about. And that, among other things, implies whether it's appropriate or not. I know Covid covered everything in this country. But if you feel that the excluded sites will never be dealt with again, that the problem or the financing of social services or the trafficking of poverty will end, just dozens of other things, it just didn't go away. And I think it's our duty -- and we promised it three years ago -- to do something about it, and this is a little attempt to do something about it. And another thing. Please, no one's taking any money. The small proposal I'm presenting here is just a supplement to the existing law, that's all it is. And in order to get somebody to pay 300 crowns for the fine, first of all, someone has to do the offense, and second of all, the offense has to be serious. And most importantly, it has to be repeated three times in a row. The one who gets drunk, the one who threatens, the one who steals something and gets a ticket from the city police, pays the fine, no one's going to enforce anything. It only points to those who behave repeatedly in the long run, those people, neighbors are insane and mayors can't do anything about it. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u17	Thank you. Mr Černohorský will respond with a factual point, and then Mrs Richterová is also registered. The comments should therefore be exhausted. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u18	Although it has acknowledged changes, the text, when I read it, is - because the original proposal has made a number of changes during its discussion, I am expressing it in the wording of Mr Jan Bauer's comprehensive amendment. This means that this letter, which has arrived, is also responding to the comprehensive amendment that was here. And the final sentence: I therefore recommend not to accept the amendment of the law in this form. It responds to the change whether it is the original one or the change that will then take place in the context of your comprehensive amendment, through Mr President. Colleague Richterová here in a moment, or not in the factual one, but then in her performance, will represent the suggestions or options that maybe the mayors have. I'm just gonna try to pin it in here at that speed as an answer to my colleague. One of the things they can do: sanctions for committing offences in the Czech Republic deal with two criminal laws, Act No. 250/2016, which allows, in addition to reprimands and fines, also to apply so-called. prohibition of activity, forfeiture of the case, etc. So one of the things is to use this law. Others can start using Law No. 251/2016 Coll., on some offences, which allows to impose stricter penalties for repeated offences against public order, which is the music that plays there, or against civil coexistence and against property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u19	Thank you, and I ask that we address ourselves by means of me. And Mrs Richterová will respond with a factual point and Mr Čižinský has yet to come forward. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u20	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I would like to respond to Mr Bauer, who says it is a small attempt to do something about it. And I want to know what "it" is. Because that target is very unclear to me on the novel. As an objective, I would understand reducing the number of excluded localities, increasing the number of children with completed education. I don't think the real target is set. I also lacked settlement with the existing criminal laws, because the last House approved two criminal laws that entered into force in mid-2017. That's enough time to evaluate. [[16.00 hours]] And so, if the target is set in a way that really can be measured, because it seems to me that this did not happen exactly in the case of the two criminal laws adopted in 2016, in force in 2017, because otherwise we would not be talking in such vague terms here, on conjecture. So I will be happy to clarify what your objective is, through the President, my colleague. And I just wish that the goal was a permanent change, a permanent improvement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u21	Thank you, and Mr Čižinský will still respond with a point of fact, the last one at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u22	I might still be able to say that there is actually a very unrealistic expectation here that this law is a miracle that will work and everything will work out, or things will get better, or a lot will get better. I, I must say, warn you a lot. We all know - and as mayor, as mayor - people who really are at the bottom are not subject to fines because they never pay them, or at least do not intend to pay them, no one will take anything on them, but they are also people that need to be worked with, which needs to be taken care of afterwards, because I think that nobody here wants these people to really just die on the street. Here when you come, colleagues, to this counter, I don't believe you're going to say that we want these people to die on the street. These people then, we have to work with them, and then these people, that care for them costs a lot of money. And unfortunately, I am very worried that this adjustment will increase the number of people who are actually at the bottom and are actually not afraid of anything, and then, when they are older, they need to be helped and it costs much more resources again. I insist that the solution is to be the opposite, that the work and infrastructure should actually be at first, so that improvements can be made, and then some similar change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u23	Thank you. Mr Juchelka also came forward with a point of fact and then I register Mrs Pastuchová's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u24	I will be very short, because I must respond through your, Mr Vice-President, to Mr Čižinský. Because it makes a difference to be mayor in the Ústecký, Karlovy Vary region or Moravian-Silesian region in some town, I don't know, Karviná, Ostrava, Orlová and so on, and in some town area rich Prague. First of all. Secondly, there's no one here at all saying not to work with these people, on the contrary. On the contrary, it's supposed to go hand in hand and work with these people. In our excluded localities, an unprecedented number of different nonprofit organizations, charities, churches that work with these people, tutor them at home and so on. But the aim of this law here is really to stand up for those people who are being disturbed by these people who are really inadaptable. And they won't adapt on the basis of some long work. Unfortunately, the data is completely different. I say there were several billion crowns for social inclusion. Several billion crowns. And the number of excluded sites has increased to double. There are 606 in the whole Czech Republic. There are 115,000 people living there. We, of course, when we were going through the excluded locations, and Mr. Bauer wasn't alone, I was there, too, so obviously you can't trust your own eyes to see what you can do when you give those people social housing. You give it to them - here you go, take care, pay. Have you been there? It's not here in the city district of Prague, there's a dollhouse where you have two in thirty families that can somehow tear it apart. You have a whole doll of these people, where, on the contrary, those who live there and live until today, they run away from there. And the investments they put in that apartment are going down brutally. It is a big difference to live in the Moravian-Silesian region with these excluded localities and live in rich Prague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u25	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I now have other applications with priority rights, but if the Member wishes to speak, I will give her two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I will also address Mr Čižinský through your speech. Probably an election campaign. That's where the word comes in a lot. This law has been here since 2018, and, as I said, we had in the government's programming statement that we wanted to change the system of payment of benefits. I am sorry that the MPSV has not submitted this, and we are in a government coalition, but that is why we are adding to the approval of these proposals that are tabled here. But I still don't understand one thing. We're talking about people who commit a three-time felony... or a misdemeanor, sorry, and that gets them into what you're talking about. And I beg you to put it in someone's mouth that we don't want it. dying on the road or on the street, a lot more of these clients. But here we are, as my fellow Member Juchelka said, through Mr President, we want to protect those decent citizens, and you are talking about citizens who commit a big offense three times, and nothing will happen to them. Or I don't know who you're protecting, I don't understand it from you now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u27	Thank you and now Mr Čižinský, then Mrs Richterová and then, if necessary, further factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u28	Thank you. Of course there is a difference between Prague, of course there is a difference between other cities. Every town, every city, every village has its problems. Of course I'm aware of the difference. I am speaking here because I do not understand, and I will be happy to have a colleague or a colleague explain to me how this will improve. The better it gets - that's what I need to explain here. How to improve the situation of the child who is tutored by the charity, how to improve the child's situation. Because for three offenses, when his parents lose their finances, unfortunately, the child's situation just won't get better, it'll get worse. And that's where the buried dog is. I am not defending anybody here who is committing offenses, in any way, but I am convinced that the implications for this assistance, for those public budgets in the future, will be greater after the adoption of this law than those mentioned here by my colleague Juchelka. And when I read the government's programming statement, there was a law on social housing. Where is he? It's not. Of course, you can say: this is social democracy, we are YES and so on. But that would be the best course of action: giving the mayors access to finance so that they can actually deal with these situations. And it's not now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u29	Thank you. Now Mrs Richterová and then Mr Profant, then Mr Beitl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u30	Thank you for the floor. It is not true what she said through the President, Mrs Pastuchová, that law is not 'three times and enough', but the first unpaid fine will be to be taken from the benefits of material emergency - and now: on condition that the municipality finds that the culprit will probably not pay it. And that it's really important to say and that there's this possibility: the community will be impressed. What it is, of course, none of us know. The important thing is that he can get the impression. I don't think that's justified, and there's no way that's based on the simplified name you're using. Second thing, the costs. The question that is being raised over and over again here is how it will help, what will make it better for the country's biggest challenge, and these are excluded locations. All of us on the Social Committee have, as far as I know, visited many socially excluded localities. And the difference in the approach is either to solve it comprehensively and to want the hard work, ant work, where it goes hand in hand with work, which means, for example, the law on social enterprise and clear support for the employment of different disadvantaged people, housing, and then the consistent social work, as well as control. And here what is mentioned is, on the one hand, the false impression that it is only after the repetition, and it is not: if the municipality becomes aware that the culprit will probably not pay the fine, it will tear down immediately, for the first time. And the second thing is, there's no cost at all. That's what my previous speaker, Mr. Čižinský, said. They don't mention the cost to the entire company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u31	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. And now, Mr. Beitl. I'm sorry if you read German. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u32	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have dealt with this issue as mayor, and at that time there was a proposal which essentially did not use financial sanctions, but used an instrument for banning a cadastral stay. That was one of those attempts that was rejected by human rights defenders, and it fell. And what we're trying to do here, of course, isn't something that somehow saves the system, which works on its own, but it's a chance to give a certain hope to people who actually - I'm pointing out - move in that field. And what could that mean for those kids? It may mean that for the first time in their lives they will see that their parents cannot afford everything! And that if someone does something, there'll be punishment. And punishment fast and immediate. And that's the thing our legal system doesn't give to mayors until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u33	Thank you. Mrs Aulická, then Mrs Richterová, with factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I would perhaps still like to thank my colleague, Mr Beitl, because he actually said that gros. We do not say that all those who receive benefits in material distress are troubled. It's not like that. On the other hand, there are people who just don't want to follow, whether they have it as their way of life, or simply because they haven't had a completely normal, normal life that they should follow, and they don't want to enter into it. And really cohabitation in those cities or even in those parts is for ordinary citizens who go to work, who try to go to bed early in the evening so they can get up for work in the morning, so it's completely disastrous. And I might say that the solution to excluded localities is not just consistent social work. We can have 100,000 social workers here, but if those people don't want to, you can't do anything about them! They don't want to follow the rules, they don't want to be involved, so what are you going to do with them? Are you going to force them? You're gonna put them in the apartments because it's nice, and you're gonna say, is that right? They're gonna live it up, they're gonna destroy it, they're gonna clean it up! I'd like to see you go to different apartments in Most, where families live for a month or a week. It's a devastated apartment, and it was nice apartments. Some of these people don't appreciate anything. And the kids are growing up in it! And don't be mad at me, it's not perfectly normal for us to support the fact that parents don't want to wake up in the morning when they're doing some of their activities in the night, and then in the morning, they say to the child, "Don't go, it's not necessary. These kids don't have a role model, and it needs to be changed. And if this is a small option, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u35	Thank you and now Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u36	Thank you for the floor. I feel like we're all talking about different realities. Because we just have two criminal laws now. I am now responding, through the President, to Mr Beitl, who says: Punishment quickly and immediately. That works, of course. And now Act No.250/2016 Coll. allows to give warning, fine, prohibition of action, forfeiture of the case or its substitute value, and, where appropriate, publication of the decision on the offence. These penalties can be combined. Of course, I'll give you a simple example when someone steals a bottle of alcohol, so either the bottle can, of course, be confiscated, or the payment of its price is required, all of which, of course, apply under this law on infractions. And these offences are to be dealt with by municipalities and so do they in the next Act 251/2016 Coll. the possibility of imposing stricter penalties for repeated offences, both against public order and against civil coexistence and against property. And there are actually fines for disobeying an official person up to CZK 10,000. There are fines up to 75 thousand crowns, e.g. for repeated damage to public property. And that is why I am turning to my colleague Beitl to ask what is not enough in this. Because I'm interested in evaluating this now legislative state. I wonder why you want to change what I personally find very strict. And once again, the last House pushed through, it was precisely because of the mayor's call for these modifications. And as I've already listed, there are possibilities for an immediate solution. There are possibilities and great rigour for repetition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Beitl with a point of fact, then Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u38	Colleagues, the answer is quite simple. I believe my colleague Aulická is already jumping a meter high. People who have become accustomed to living on the boundary of the existential minimum know that none of these laws will reach them. You can give them a million tickets, they don't care if it's ten, a hundred, a thousand or a million. Because they just don't pay anything. And they laugh in the eyes of all those who cause problems. Not only them, but they laugh at the repressive authorities, the city police, the officials, and they're still rude to them! What would it be like for you to have a store in front of it, a store in front of it, and every day someone would come in and pick up two apples and move on? How would you feel about being a cop who'd go on a day-to-day scramble and give some fines he knows will never be able to get rid of? And I repeat once again: this is not a miracle recipe to get rid of all this, but we want to give those people who are on the side of repression and supervision at least some tool and at least some hope and a feeling that the House and society are giving them some support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u39	Thank you. Please, Mrs Aulická, Mr Profant will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u40	Thank you. I am already reporting that I will not report to the classic general debate, because I would like to give space to the next press. In any case, for my colleague Richterová, for your part, Mr President, I would suggest that you try to find out what the administrative procedures are and how the fines - and unfortunately, we certainly meant it correctly - are enforceable. My colleague said it here. You just can't get anything out of these people. Those people are laughing in your face, I'd say otherwise, officials, cops, they're just not afraid of anyone here anymore, and they're really doing more and more what they want. And that's where the company needs to be shown - and there's nothing else to do but take the money. Like it or not. Just until he touches the money, the benefits, those people are gonna do whatever they want! And that's the reality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u41	Thank you. Mr Profant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u42	I still have to pause over one statement from the rapporteur on what matters are in the Government's programming declaration. I'm quoting it to you, you probably didn't read it carefully like most of the members of the government coalition. Here is one such nice paragraph: "We will simplify electoral rules so as to facilitate citizens' access to elections, including the introduction of correspondence elections, the abolition of local jurisdiction for the issue of electoral certificates. We will make the Senate election more effective by introducing a one-wheel system." That was a quote from a government statement. Coincidentally, we had the 97th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today. At the third reading, there was a vote three times - vote 8, 9 and 10. [[Protests from Members Pastuch and Bauer from the rapporteur's desk.]] The only one who was in favor of--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u43	Ambassador, I'm calling you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u44	Well, I'm reading your programming statement when you're arguing with me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u45	And please turn to your colleagues through me, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u46	[[Dissenting voices from the newsstand table.]] So don't talk about a programming statement you don't keep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u47	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, I have to take your word for it. Mr Běhounek has come forward with a factual remark, and if anyone else is applying, I will, of course, give the floor, but I will ask that we go to the press. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's discuss the press on the board - 290, and stop talking such nonsense! You're wasting your time. You want to make three more laws. They're all deputies, there's no government, so let's do it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u49	Thank you. I now have Mrs Richterová here with a factual remark. I suppose it's going to be some notes that have already been made. I suppose it's one that's relevant. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u50	I would just very much like to hear what the objective is, and therefore I am speaking in a factual point, because I have asked this through Mr Bauer, the President, what is the aim of the amendment, because it is simply not clear. And these discussions are the only way to show what is to be improved after discussing these bills, in which it is intended to benefit our country, and if the consequences, including financial ones, are not too high. Because if these kinds of repression described were to work well and achieve that goal, all the countries of the world would certainly have them. But the way it's described, I don't know that it would work. And that is why I ask my fellow petitioner what the intended objective is. For me, it would be to reduce the number of excluded localities, to strengthen the possibility of systematically planning social work, to ensure that municipalities have long-term resources for systematic work with families, and so that, of course, the early, rapid interventions, if anything needs to be dealt with, of course, but they also manage that in a number of cities through social work. And since we don't have the security here, we're here every year to squabble about a sufficient allocation of funds for social work in the municipalities, so I'm asking what's achieved by going from the other side, that's going first on the side that's being proposed here. And since my fellow translator said it very vaguely from my point of view, I would be interested in explaining the objective. And without the justification, which I lack in the attached explanatory note, I find it unfair to pass the law on because it seems irresponsible to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u51	Thank you. And by this we have exhausted the factual points, so I will ask Mrs Richterová, who is now on the table for the debate, to speak in the context of the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u52	Unfortunately, I did not receive a response to what I asked the rapporteur or the rapporteur. And I'm just going to repeat the key thing that I find very important to the functioning of our country. I mean, it's not supposed to be the change itself. The goal is not to change the way the benefits are paid. The aim is not to show the so-called quotation marks that we're doing something. The aim is that there will be improvement, that it will simply be measurable to see that some problematic things are gradually improving. And as I have already said, the socially excluded localities certainly represent one of the country's greatest challenges, but what I don't think works is the one described here, from the context of one small proposal torn out. And he's seemingly small, but he breaks down a very important thing, a very important principle. Again, I totally respect the frustrations described here, the situations described, which, as stated, are experienced by city officers and others, but the question mark is whether you will achieve your desired goal. And that's why I'm trying to figure out what that target is, because there's no record that this is working. And, as has already been pointed out in the text sent to all of us by Dr. Křeček, the current Ombudsman is not someone I personally would like to notify with, but the impact of the proposal on families with careless children is so concerned that he does not recommend approving the proposal. In fact, it clearly points out that, without legitimate reasons, the proposal disproportionately interferes with the constitutionally guaranteed right to ensure the assistance necessary to safeguard fundamental living conditions. I've already stressed that the point is that it wouldn't just be after some repeated commition of something very serious, but that the risk is great, that it will be imposed right after the first situation. As far as the complex is concerned, what is involved in the proposal here, I am also quoting one sentence from Dr Křeček's opinion, namely that the proposed legislation is actually breaking the unpopularity of the benefits to ensure, to ensure basic living conditions. That's been said a few times, but it's really a key thing. So, on the one hand, the petitioners say that this is a rather small proposal, on the other hand, it breaks the key principle. In summary, I agree completely with those who have performed here, that we have a big problem in several dozen to hundreds of locations, really extremely intense, and as a country we ignore it. And now I'm interested in the solution. The way we get to the point where the number of excluded sites doesn't grow, but it gets smaller. I also think we can agree that it's wrong that there's such a large number of people in our prisons. This is significantly more than in other comparable European countries. We are at the top of how many people per population are institutionalized in this way. Why do I mention that? Because prison is just expensive. It's a cargo. And I mention this in this context because a number of experts are concerned that the proposal can lead to a larger number of people in prisons, which is extremely expensive. On the contrary, very targeted and individual social work with the family costs between 5 and 7 000 per month. Staying in prison, as far as I know, costs CZK 1,900 a day. The discrepancy is obvious. Social work is hard work, it's organized in municipalities, I get that. I've already said that they don't have the money for it, they don't have the money for it in the long run, but - and that seems very important to me - it makes sense in the long run. It has the results for children to complete school, which would be my goal: to end early leaving education, and not to take children from families to institutions, to children's homes, etc. Again, this is another very expensive accompanying phenomenon of poverty in our country, and as I mentioned in prison costs, and in children's homes, we get to some types of amounts of CZK 45,000 per month. That's a very high amount again. I would like us to take this whole thing in such a way that it has everything to do with it and that this one proposal, which breaks a very important principle, can cause much greater budgetary losses in its consequences and, above all, a much smaller focus on the real future. To make our country work and to make the most of the potential of all the people of our country. Instead, it's basically focused on the past. [[16.30 hours]] This permanent improvement and permanent change should be based on an analysis of existing legislation and how it works and on finding out what is really preventing municipal authorities from active rapid enforcement. It said here, "Go ask them." But I'm asking you, the petitioners, to at least give a brief analysis of such functioning when you want this change. And I'm the one who's asking how you justify the change. It's that simple. And I wonder if it really will lead to more children with completed education and that there will be more families who will permanently break out of a difficult situation, and more better neighborhoods. And we're back to something that, of course, we all agree on. We all want to live in a country where you can move anywhere and there's a good neighborhood where it works well. And we all know that's not how it works today. But is this really the proposal that will make this improvement happen? What struck me very much from the words of Mr. Beitl's previous speaker was to give at least some instrument and a feeling. Because that's what I'm afraid is a very emotional proposal that's not based on facts. And if we look at this in detail, we have an ever-increasing number of excluded localities, but we can't solve the cuts on paper. And none of you, fellow Members of the government, has submitted a set of comprehensive solutions that we would be discussing here today, and which you would have been able to get into the discussion with the weight of your coalition agreements. Instead of dealing with the work complex, the social entrepreneurship law mentioned above, effective, effective support for employment of different disadvantaged people, a clear admission that some people simply cannot be employed by the market and that we need to work with it as a society, so instead of such honesty and capacity to discuss here this proposal, which is ready, there is something that we simply do not know at all what the consequences will be. And they can be, as I have already said and justified, very negative. So is living. Support for housing, where many cities have already proven how effective it can be, both at the moment when the aid is rapid and the level of control is sufficient, so it works and there are no problems described here by, for example, my colleague Aulická. Likewise, many have faced how well to start education, and it is clear that it is particularly about starting on time. There are recipes for how to support children at risk of school failure by early tutoring, early inclusion in children's groups or kindergarten. Every year of preschool care and support will have a very significant impact on lifelong success. These are positive recipes and recipes that are cheaper in the long run. And why am I stressing this? Because these positive recipes are not applied by this government. Instead, in the pandemic, at a time of crisis, which, moreover, affects very unevenly different types of families, threatens that, in fact, the possibilities that the system is somehow accustomed to will still be broken down: And I don't have to stress that it is families of low-income, poor, with young children that just don't really have an easy life right now. Again, unfortunately, the proposal is not clearly defined that it would be strictly possible to intervene after some third breach. Again, if the municipality gets the impression that the culprit is not likely to pay the fine, the withdrawal from the benefits will be possible for the first unpaid fine. On this I want to show how ill-conceived this seems to a number of experts and that it is simply not defined, as the translator said. Next thing you know, I've been hearing from a lot of people that they don't have how to document, the demands the employment office wants them to do. Typically, single mothers are often required to document their former spouse's residence. This is often an unsolvable task for them. But beware, it is also a transgression; a transgression, if you do not prove such an office thing required. I would also point out that what I described as a positive solution would really work hand in hand with that fair, strict but fair, official enforcement. But I'm afraid that's not how it's tuned today. And now that this change comes into such a system that is volatile, the unintended consequences of over-taking children into children's homes or over-slapping other families and other families, even completely uninhibited cod poverty, can simply come. Therefore, I would suggest that we will read in detail what possibilities we have in these situations today, so that it is really clear why it is not clear that this is so much needed, and why I am interested in what happens to these people and what a real long-term solution it is and what long-term ant work looks like to improve our entire social system. Since the lack of penalty for repeating certain offences, we have already said that, it is dealt with by Act No. 251/2016 Coll. and this Act on certain offences allows for the imposition of stricter penalties for repeated offences against, first, public order, second, civil coexistence and, third, property. This law, which has been effective since mid-2017, can therefore be evaluated for almost four years. And that is why I have asked several times in these factual notes, what the result of this law was, how the promoter evaluated his contribution and how this modification was reflected so significantly, or did not reflect and why, how the municipalities operate today. Why do I care? Because many similar arguments were also used in the debate at the time: we have no instrument. But it seems that the problem may be more practical than the legislation. That the problem may be more the way the community's legal instruments are grasping. And I know it's hard work, I know it's not easy, but here I think we have a very detailed regulation in the second law, that's number 250/2016 Coll., on offenses, and it allows, in addition to reprimands, penalties to apply also the prohibition of activity, forfeiture of the cause or its substitute value and such public shame - publication of the decision on offense. And the punishments can be combined. [[16.40 hours]] So one more time. So we have the opportunity to prosecute all of these instruments consistently, whether by city officers, by crime preventists. Let me just give you an example so we can all imagine. Maybe it's possible to ban skateboarding, skateboarding, if it hurts it, and that's what the law says, that's a ban on activity. In the same way, it is possible to simply take advantage of the fact that each person may otherwise suffer from the use of another tool. For some it is more painful to be published, the publication of the decision on offense can be a greater punishment, for others just the forfeiture of the thing or its substitute value for example. But for all these offenses against public order, against civil coexistence and against property, the law on repeated offences applies, and there is the possibility of a fine of CZK 10,000, for example for disobeying an official's call or for depreciating an official's person, or up to CZK 75,000 for repeated damage to public property. And what I'm interested in is an evaluation of these current possibilities. Evaluation of the use, simply an inventory of the frequency of imposing these fines. I have, of course, listened well to the previous debate, but there has been individual experience here, but no aggregated evaluation of how many people who, after imposing these fines, did not really care, as you said here. I miss the data-based evaluation here that such a percentage of offenders are repeatedly committed despite high fines imposed, because they are, as you have said, one. That's one thing. I think this reasoning would be very important. And the other thing. It's really not 300. The possibilities of fines are up to 75,000 for misdemeanors, so I am interested in how high they are in practice, how real it is in practice. And there's one more thing about the justification. Thus, in the original draft in 2018, the explanatory memorandum evaluated in some way at least the withdrawal of benefits for 3, 6, 12 months, but the proposal had undergone a significant change. There is a comprehensive amendment. Again, I lack an assessment of the impact of the four-year-old regulation of offences, which I consider to be a very serious problem, a lack, and I believe that the fact that the comprehensive amendment of the committee, which is actually the content of the bill itself, is not stated on the basis of what the petitioners have come to the proposed changes and on which it is based that they will be useful, that we should say to ourselves that this reasoning needs to be supplemented, and therefore I propose that, as I know, the vote then, at the end of the debate, is also a return to the guarantee committee. As far as these missing analyses of existing legislation are concerned, I am still interested in how the petitioners want to deal with the fact that it is a disability of the still inexhaustible benefits of deductions. So de facto in practice about execution. And the problem is that the court decides on it in the ordinary execution, but this will be the administrative decision of the employment office, so there will be a lack of the possibility of an actual assessment of the situation. It is not designed there and it will simply be necessary to proceed according to the proposal and to knock down all the money. And now again, I'm asking for that goal. Do you really think that this will make life better for the localities you're looking for? Again, I'm warning you that all the extra crimes in the novel are already in effect, and the punishments I've listed are being given for them. It's the facade. As far as one other aspect is concerned, is there still an aspect of the fact that there are people who cannot work or work on the free market without their guilt, they are not able to do enough, and what about the fact that unfortunately, as it is proposed, this regulation would actually motivate the municipalities, certainly not all, but probably some, to issue decrees that would allow as many fines as possible? And then that village would get back on the withdrawal from those benefits, those executions, the deductions from those benefits to their budget. Why am I stressing this? Because other preferential claims, maintenance, injury caused by harm to the health, etc., are not removed from the material emergency. Why? I believe that for other adjustments, the argument of proportionality and that it is simply more advantageous and cheaper for society as a whole when people do not have to steal. And that is simply the question of where this would lead in this effect. Those fines granted by municipalities would be preferred not only to the maintenance already mentioned, but also to those other public-law claims which are preferred. I'm sure we all know that there are different types of taxes, public health insurance premiums, social security premiums, etc. However, in the case of fines for infringement of municipal decrees, it is simply all broken down and there is the possibility to outrun all other claims and to enforce what is not executable on the basis of any other principle. What is there from the point of view of our professional team of lawyers is the considerable disproportion in the position of municipalities and other creditors. Again, in order to imagine this, the proposal envisages that the municipalities will enforce fines for infringements of the obligations laid down by the generally binding municipal decrees, e.g. for the organisation, conduct and termination of open sport and cultural undertakings, including dance entertainment and discos, by laying down binding conditions to the extent necessary to ensure public order. This is a quote from the proposal adopted by the Committee on Social Policy, but again, let us just remember that today under the Act No. 251/2016 Coll. Article 5 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) (i) there is the possibility of dealing with the very conditions imposed to protect public order in the event of sporting, cultural, religious and other social events or in places intended for recreation, tourism or burial, up to CZK 10,000 for one-off and up to CZK 15,000 for repeated violations. So once again, the question arises when it is duplicated in this way, how often do municipalities apply these fines. On what grounds, justified in sum. Today's practice doesn't work. The fact that there are individual experiences should be materialized in an overall analysis of the number of fines imposed, their amount and the course of their enforcement and the reason why the present system is failing in the opinion of the petitioners. [[16.50 hours]] And again. After all, the interest is not to eliminate part of the community or housing fund, but to maintain some possibility of bounce off the bottom. And this is not only food security, but also already mentioned and missing support for employment. Of course, very logically, very important help with dealing with drug addiction and overall prevention. Preventing us from getting into this mess as a society. And again. The municipalities have a number of options to strengthen social prevention services on crime prevention, on support measures in education. As the founders of kindergartens and schools of the municipality can very much in this area. Development of community work and so on. But in addition to the warnings and fines mentioned in those criminal laws, all these things can also be used as a ban on activity, forfeiture of property, or payment of substitute value. And that's effective and it's possible to get paid right away, but in that proposal, it's kind of going to be started again. So, if we sum up, the argument of unconstitutionality over the real execution of disability is absolutely essential, especially when looking at those other claims that are not actually breaking that right. These are the claims where the maintenance, personal damage, unpaid taxes are mentioned. And if we sum it up this way, the main thing that's missing is how today's adjustment works. There is no analysis of how municipalities deal with these situations really and not only on individual examples, but on a comprehensive analysis, because the law will simply have an impact on the whole country and it will have to be followed by municipalities that might not want to follow it otherwise. Second thing. Those unpaid fines, for example, are also very difficult to define, because sometimes it is really the inability of parents, it is absolutely a reality, but sometimes it is a situation for a teenage child, with whom it is very difficult. And there's just gonna be a lot more punishment for this. And I guess everyone, as you're sitting here, will admit that the situation of a teenage child who just doesn't always have to tell the truth at home is something completely different from the parents who really don't go to school because of their irresponsibleness. Here is the last thing I would like to highlight, namely that the entire household, all of them, will be affected for the error of the individual. To imagine this, it will actually be drawn from the benefits of aid in material distress, which are intended for food and housing for the whole family, first from the housing supplement and then from the subsistence allowance, even in that situation, when the offence is committed only by one of the members. I have given one example of the situation, but there are many situations where it is extremely unfair to the rest of the household. And then it should also be taken into account that in the free-of-charge zones where the housing supplement is not paid at all, then families lose the entire food dose, which is otherwise written as if it were second in the order. Again, of course, I would like the ideal world where we would not have to deal with this at all, where, on the one hand, there would be laws and decrees that are possible and easy to observe, but where everyone would also live an exemplary life. Plus, if they're getting the public support, I totally understand that. But since we don't have an ideal world like this, we don't live in it, so I'm just curious about what happens to these people and our entire society, if it comes into force in the present form. Once again, the amount of fines is really to the CZK 10,000 to 75,000, and on the contrary, the average amount of both benefits in material distress is CZK 6,500 for the family. So it could mean zero material security for a few months. I am summing up here that it is simply not a simple and small thing, as the petitioners are trying to say, but that it is a relatively significant intervention in a number of still unbreakable principles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u53	Thank you. According to my records, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková should speak now and then prepare Mr Profant. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, allow me first to make a short reply to the fulfilment or non-compliance with the government statement. If Minister Maláčová were here, which unfortunately is not, because she is lying with the covid, she would probably say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepared a lot of proposals in accordance with the government statement, of course. Unfortunately, it is not the Ministry that places appropriate proposals at the government's meeting. He's the Prime Minister. So some of them have just been lying down for a long time, or maybe they're still lying there before they even pass through the government to get us here to the Chamber of Deputies. The second thing is that let's try to look at the last year that the Ministry has submitted and worked mostly to make people do everything that is affecting us at this moment as a covide pandemic, so that they can survive it a little bit. But we're at second reading right now, and I'd like to be able to discuss the other two laws, so I'm going to be very short, but still a little bit in general. I must say for social democracy that the philosophy of benefits in material distress, but also of all other support from the social network, must, in our opinion, act as a trampoline. It just can't be so big an eye that the person who gets in trouble falls through those eyes and can't get out of it anymore. It just has to be a network that can help a person get back into normal life. We do not want to fall into extreme poverty, especially families with children. We don't want them getting into situations they can't get out of. In particular, benefits in material distress are designed to help people overcome the crisis that can happen to everyone and return to normal life. It means working alone, providing for the family, caring for the children. Unfortunately, at this point, and we really need to be aware of that, everyone can get into really, really existential trouble. And it's not the people's fault. Therefore, there must be a social network, there must be aid to the state in the form of social security, so that, I say, these people can return to a normal and full life. [[17,00 hours]] I would like to say that the intention is clear and can be understood to a great extent here to the present press, as the Chair of the Social Committee, called three rounds and enough, has said. But he really does have it. The proposal still holds the risk of interfering with the Constitution for the Protection of Fundamental Needs, not only for persons who committed the selected offences, but also for the rights to ensure the basic needs of persons who committed nothing but are with the perpetrator in one circle of persons considered together, so that we can understand it, in one household. However, the comprehensive amendment, which was consulted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the appellant spoke about it, mitigates the impact of the proposal on the rights of particularly careless children by maintaining their minimum of living. These are amendments in the system under 7810 and 7811. I would like to emphasise once again that we want the delivery system to actually function like the trampoline. If we get into trouble, the trampoline will drive us back to normal life, and one can start working, that means working, caring for one's loved ones, going to school. The dosage system should not be a network in which a person gets stuck for life. But there has also been a speech, all changes must go along with the change in the availability of housing, intensive social work, but also by modernising the functioning of the employment offices and the honesty of at least compulsory schooling. I'd probably have a question here: what did you do for it? The draft Housing Act is submitted. Social work in municipalities is massively supported, as it has not been before. And we will certainly support them in the following period. At this point, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is seeking to direct the European funds for further budgetary periods into these areas. Maybe one more comment. However, in order to achieve what is, as I understand, the aim of this bill is that children really go to school to ensure their schooling, but at the moment it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation between education and social affairs, between these ministries, in addressing the effects of the pandemic, if you want distance education. We could keep talking about that. However, I would add to the conclusion, after all, the requirement that we have an analysis of the social effects of this proposal, especially at the moment of the pandemic, which, after all, mixes with the social structure of society. We need to know those impacts before we read them. And I believe that we will be dealing with this when we discuss the Social Committee. And, of course, it will also be a requirement for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to provide us with these data on the impact of the proposal. And I believe that in the third reading we will then decide as The Chamber of Deputies, so that we can help people to ensure what I was talking about at the beginning, that the social network is supposed to function as a trampoline, is simply supposed to help people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u55	Thank you. Mr Profant has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u56	Thank you. We were having a discussion here at first about how we need to work with these people, which is important, because if people have problems, we have to help them get out of these problems, otherwise they'll always be in trouble. And pretending that there are no problems, that we've punished them, that we haven't paid them off, that doesn't lead to problems being solved. This will only lead to the multiplication of problems of a different nature. We're all aware of that. We just have this populist proposition. Mr Juchelka, through Mr President, said that, of course, they work with those people, that they work for charity and so on. So I looked up the statement of Charity of the Czech Republic, an umbrella organization that unites many charity organizations. And they sent us a pretty long letter. I'm not gonna read it all. But I have a very brief summary here. I quote the Charity of the Czech Republic: A dangerous social experiment that de facto replaces social policy with criminal policy and which will plunge many people who are no longer helpless into even greater poverty and illegality. In these words, experts refer to the upcoming amendment to the Law on material distress. That's how the biggest charity comments. And that's exactly it. That is why the data on how the current sanctions are applied, how they are enforced or not enforced and so on are really needed. And we all understand that you may not be able to answer any of our questions, but I hope that you will at least prepare your answers by the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u57	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. The rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u58	Mr Vice-President, dear ladies and gentlemen, really briefly. From the discussion that has taken place here, I have one pleasant feeling that, for example, with a person with whom I have been in the media many times and we have argued about some things and who, on the contrary, has cooperated and knows that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been involved in the bill, which is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, so that I was pleasantly surprised by her appearance here. I didn't expect that from some of them. But I just want to say, and I repeat, it started here that the aim of the bill, which is two and a half years here in the House, was not really to seek and chase political points. There was a different situation back then. I still think that maybe that's why it's appropriate for them to be dealt with right now. From the beginning, however, I offered everyone cooperation. Many have been involved. Some of them didn't get involved. I have a very good feeling about my colleagues on the social committee, who either had some ideas that we wanted to get into, like, a changeling. But I was surprised that at the last minute since those, and I don't want to say that it's just Mrs. Richterová, who knew that the law had been here so long, they just didn't come up with any suggestions. It was time, we could've taken care of it. And I wanted to say that if anyone here wants to deal with complex issues - social housing, excluded localities - I would like to recommend that they contact the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs with confidence, because I am not really going to defend this government and the Minister here, on the contrary, I am here to criticize it. And what my colleagues and I finally reached out to this proposal was precisely the inaction, because we have not been able to see anything for a long time. And if I remember the challenges of all the mayors, social workers and people who just live in excluded localities, they said, you know, we don't want to hear any more talk and promises and bullshit, and then you go back to your parliament and nothing happens, we just want some concrete things. And if it's just something complex, and I'm the last person who wouldn't want this thing to be handled in a complex way, at least come up with some partial proposal that might help a little bit. [[17.10 hours]] And that was the target. The goal was, of course, to give at least some instrument to the municipal sphere, the mayors, the city police. The goal was for those people on whom we all consist in the payment of social benefits, in case they grossly commit serious offenses and do it repeatedly, not feel inconvenient. That was the target. And they don't really have it in their hands today, and that's why we brought it up. I don't know if we're gonna put together any more analysis or not, I don't know. But I think that the really important things, the complex and strategic things, that's not what I'm here for, that's a challenge to the Ministry of Labour and the Minister. I've noted the suggestions, if they're willing to cooperate as part of the evaluation of some of the laws, I'm leaning towards it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u59	Thank you. I ask if anyone else in the general debate. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not like that. I have information that Mrs Richterová has proposed to return the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to Paragraph 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. [[Gong.]] I hear someone knocked. Ladies and gentlemen, I've checked you all out now. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. We need to give some room to our colleagues in the lobby. [[Gong. Members are coming to the ballroom.]] For those of you who have just arrived, a motion has been made to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. [[Members are still coming into the hall.]] Once again, let's give the last one a chance. We will vote on the return of the guarantee committee to renegotiate. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's a serial number eight vote. It's registered 70, for 16, against 50. This proposal has not been adopted. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Bauer is the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u60	So let's get to the bottom of this. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, colleagues, I would like to sign up for four amendments under 7810, 7811, 7812 and 7813, which are registered in the system, including, of course, explanatory reports. Last but not least, I would also like to propose a change in the effectiveness of this law. It has to do with the fact that this law got here about two and a half years ago and that time has passed a little bit, so the effectiveness should be from 1. 1. 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-001-007.u61	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate on this press at second reading. I don't see anyone. I'm ending the debate in detail. If necessary, the final words? Not interested. I do not see any other proposals that we would vote at this stage, so I thank everyone and end the second reading of this proposal. Opening point
