ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended /house print 532/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor. [[Minister Schiller tells off the microphone that she requests the participation of CNB Governor Jiří Rusnok in the meeting.]] I do... because a proposal to participate cannot be made by a person who is not a Member, so I can adopt the proposal to participate, so I suggest that you ask to participate. So I would ask you if we agree to the participation of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, at the meeting, I think we will vote on this if we agree to this. [[Gong.]] There's an interest in checking you out, so I'm signing you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. [[A Member of the Potter is registered on the light board.]] There. So we're going to vote... I had to erase the Hrnčíř's MP because it came from last time. We vote whether we agree with the present... [[There's not enough kvorum in the O.R.]] So there's not enough of us here, there's no 67 of us, so I can either call a break or... So I'm putting out a five-minute break, and I'll see you here at 14.38. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 14.33 to 14.38 hours.]] Okay, break's over, I see 62, so I'm just gonna check you out one more time, sign up again with your voting cards. If we go without the governor, right? We can, too, but it's a question of, of course, if anyone says yes, I understand. So let's all sign up, see if we're 67, so we can agree to the governor's presence. [[He's waiting a while.]] So there's 64 of us, so I'm suggesting that there's no objection that we give the secretary's room and... Wait, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, is this Vice-President of the Pirate Club? There you go. Objection, yes, it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u2	We're all logged in to the O.R. However, I do not really consider it possible to continue the negotiations without voting on the proposal, otherwise I would have put forward a motion to suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u3	That's enough of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u4	Anyway, we already have a deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u5	That's enough of us. I, of course, proposed it as such, which is for discussion, of course. But we don't have to talk anymore, because we've had enough. So I'm just gonna put in some more... And let us vote on whether we will allow the Governor of the Czech National Bank to be present to Jiří Rusnok. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 86, 73 Members signed in for 72, versus 1. The motion was accepted. So, I ask the Governor to present the draft bill to the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance, Alena Schillerová, on behalf of the government. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's bill amending the Czech National Bank Act. We are before the second reading, so it will be very brief. The amendment brings the most important changes in two areas. The first is the extension of the heading of monetary policy instruments as well as the circle of entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market transactions. This part was incorporated into a separate draft law, which was published in the Collection of Laws under No. 192/2020 on 24 April, in the form of the House of Approved Comprehensive Amendment, which contains only part of the original proposal for the extension of monetary policy instruments, plus limited effectiveness by the end of 2021. Therefore, I am very pleased that it is now possible to discuss the original form of this part of the bill in its entirety, as its need remains relevant. Let me reiterate here that the proposed rules correspond to those in other countries, including those for the European Central Bank's activities. The second, no less significant area is the addition of the Czech National Bank's authorisation to set a legally enforceable upper limit for selected credit indicators concerning consumer loans secured by residential real estate. Both of these changes were discussed in detail on various platforms, so I will not comment on them as part of the introductory words. Thank you for your approval in the presence of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, who will certainly complete any questions or comments during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u7	We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 532/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. The debate, of course, focused around the points mentioned by the Minister, but it is quite extensive, and it is true that a major amendment to the CNB law was last here in this area sometime in 2013. And to help you, because the second reading was started a year ago, a little bit more to the broken thread, so let me just remind you that some of these things were already part of the proposal in 2016, which ended up in the trash because the end of the term came and there was no coalition agreement for its implementation until the legislative end. The Government adopted this proposal in June 2019. So you see, tempus fugit, time really flies, and in the meantime, a lot of things happened. So we, when we discussed this material first at the seminar of the banking subcommittee - it was sometimes February 2020 - then the Czech National Bank organized a colloquium on this topic. In short, it was discussed in various forums, but we had a covid crisis, and so we approved the press that the Minister spoke of urgently in a legislative emergency. This is press 791, which solved the area of flexible monetary policy, the trade operations with the fact that they are limited in time. And when we got away with it by the Senate, the Senate added a resolution to this to keep us vigilant in terms of the use of this competence and, in particular, the financial stability reports were interested in the extent to which they were used, whether certain problems arose, as regards, of course, the extent of any toxic assets such as the consequences of this type of trade and so on and so on and so on. We were discussing this on the budget committee at the beginning of the pandemic, that is to say, on 18 March, where we still set a deadline for amendments, and I must say that, of all the amendments, the only one in the 'occasional' resolution was, in the end, the one in the 'occasional' resolution, and that is an amendment that concerns the possibility of an age limit for marriage seekers, namely in a registered partnership, at least one of which did not reach 30 years at the time of expiry of the loan. So it opens up, let's say, this relief - it's kind of a political compromise, don't look at it as a fundamental economic logic - those couples who, let's say, are age-asymmetrical. This, of course, concerns the problems of taking mortgage loans. That the mortgage credit situation has changed significantly over the past year is a fact. I also have to say that because we assumed that the second reading would be in the spring, before the covid arrived, about 15 proposals were inserted into the system of amendments in various chronology - February, March, April, June. The last suspect from the pirát is there from December 2020. So there's probably something to talk about, and if it's not yet done on some issues, let's say, an agreement with an executive body, i.e. with the Ministry, we can only read the amendments and then absolve it at the third reading that should follow. So much for the procedure and what was discussed by the Committee on Budgets. So I shall repeat briefly once again, the Committee recommends approving the amendment adopted concerning young couples applying for a mortgage loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u9	I am now opening up a general debate in which I have an enlisted Member, and it is Mr Vojtěch. [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] aha, so with priority rights the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I want to discuss not only what is in this bill, this means extending the powers of the Czech National Bank. For starters, I consider this law pointless. I would expect, Minister, that you and the government will evaluate the impact of the amendment that we have already approved, when we have significantly increased the powers of the Czech National Bank for a transitional period, and so far we have no report on which of the new instruments they have used, whether they have been used, what has helped, what has not helped. We just see how reality misses, for example, the inflation target, and I don't think there's a lot of talk about it in that public space. High inflation is no good news for our citizens. But I would like to focus our attention - and I would ask the Minister if she could possibly support me in this - to see how the Czech National Bank is using its existing powers, because I think that this is the right system approach - first to see how an institution is using its existing powers, and if we are sure that it is using them correctly and brilliantly, then we can talk about whether we give it some additional power. And I have great doubts here. The Czech National Bank has recently become accustomed to publishing a number of documents from the soft law category, when it tells the financial market how the Czech National Bank interprets the laws that we democratically elected Members and senators do as a supervisory body. In particular, these are so-called interpretational opinions or supervisory benchmarks. [[14.50 hours]] To my surprise, they are not issued by the Bank Board, but they are issued by employees of the Czech National Bank, i.e. officials, and in addition part of such an interpretation or supervision benchmark is always at the end of the notice that this is the opinion of a specific department of the Czech National Bank and that this does not have to be covered by the Bank Board's position. And it's very inconspicuous and very confusing for all financial market players, because they get a so-called interpretation opinion, and in its conclusion, it says that it doesn't have to be followed by the Bank Board. If I had anything to compare it to, imagine that the company managers make decisions and the owner has no effect on it, and they do what they want. I don't think that's the right approach. For many years, the Board has given free rein to these officials and free rein, as well as responsibility, but the responsibility is only theoretical. We can ask ourselves who is responsible for these unelected officials who give such strong opinions. That's why I'm saying that I'm surprised that the Bank Board isn't doing this alone, I would understand that, but it's a union thing. I don't think it's desirable, and I don't even think it's admissible. The regulator, and this is a strong regulator, the Czech National Bank, and I don't think the supervisory authority can work for the sake of officials. He should answer for his decision - the supervisory authority - and bear, explicitly he should be responsible for any damage that he may have caused by his interpretation of the laws. Then we can ask ourselves a legitimate question, what is the point of the entire Bank Board when it has put itself in the role of a mere appeal body, which must not actually interfere with the work of their officials and the decision-making of their officials. And the work, the decision-making of these officials, has an impact on the entire financial market. To whom do these officials answer? What are their possible responsibilities for faulty decisions and damage that they may cause in the financial market? In a professional debate, I hear a whole series of stories from the financial market, when the Czech National Bank decides by activistism, when its interpretations go beyond the law, and sometimes they also conflict with the law that we - again recall - have approved by us, democratically elected Members and Senators. On the grounds of the House we often criticize - the English term is gold plating, in Czech I would say turkney worse Turek - and this is the phenomenon where we add another regulation of our own to the implementation of European legislation and so on. This marks the position of the Czech National Bank recently. If we rightly criticise in many bills, when the government applies this principle, why it adds something else, why we do not stick to the minimum parameters imposed on us by common European legislation, then the government must explain, defend, write a reasoned report, face our criticism, have to deal with the criticism. But the Czech National Bank officials don't know this, they don't have to defend it, they don't have to explain it to anyone, they don't have to answer for their decisions. Now, let's ask ourselves, what can financial institutions really do if they think that some interpretation or supervisory benchmarking is wrong and wrong? How can he defend himself? The sad answer, Madam Secretary, is that virtually nothing. The Czech National Bank's interpretation cannot be resisted when the Czech National Bank issues it, and the financial institution has two options: it either submits or risks administrative management and sanctions. In its official communication on the credibility of persons in statutory bodies, the Czech National Bank concludes that a person in the management function of a financial institution who has previously held responsibility for a section or activity that has been sanctioned by the Czech National Bank or has even been identified by any shortcomings in it can be automatically, I note automatically, designated by the Czech National Bank as a distrusting person and can de facto be prevented in the future by another career in any financial institution. Now I may use a little bit of a strong analogy - but it seems to me to be the position of officials or financial institutions as a screenplay from a mob movie: you'll get an offer that can't be rejected. I think many of us know the movies or the books in which this popular turn of mobsters occurs. Who's gonna risk it from the financial institutions? In theory, a financial institution may refer to an administrative court. Maybe after three, maybe after four years, he'll get a decision. However, the action itself does not have suspensive effect. So the whole time this theoretical lawsuit is under way in a court of law, financial institutions must do what the Czech National Bank has ordered them to do, or, on the contrary, they must not do what the Czech National Bank has forbidden them to do. And they must all the time - and we know that most major financial institutions have owners abroad - so all this time management has to report to its parent companies that it is in dispute that there is a risk of administrative proceedings and that no one knows how it will turn out. The question for us as legislator is relatively simple: Should we not clearly define in the law the definition of this interpretation, its bindingness and the way in which it is accepted? Unfortunately, that is not in this bill at all. It is as if the legitimate misery of financial market institutions did not reach the ears of the Ministry of Finance or the government as a whole. Very often, and I would say that rightly - I just want to compliment the Minister, so I waited for her to fail, because she always says that I only criticize - very often and very rightly the Minister says that our financial sector is stable, firm and healthy. I totally agree with this and it is a great report for the Czech Republic and Czech citizens. But if I compare it to what the Czech National Bank has been doing with its opinions on financial institutions, I think we should stop and rather than suggest further and further powers - and remember how many powers we have added in recent years - to solve the issue of interpretational opinions, their bindingness and their way of accepting. I think that the Czech National Bank must stop acting out of position and really use dialogue to communicate with financial institutions, and not that it has one-way orders, controls, commands, interprets, and as I said - "take or you will have a problem." It is nothing new, it is nothing unconventional, what I am talking about and what we should be dealing with against the Czech National Bank. We can look at some neighbouring countries where it works directly, where it is directly legalized, and we can see how European supervisory authorities - EBA, ESMA, EBA, EBA - are directly obliged by European regulations to take into account the impact of their recommendations, consult the professional public during the preparation of the recommendations. Above all, these recommendations are not the decisions of one European official, but are adopted, discussed, issued by the Board of Supervisors, that is, in our environment, by the Bank Board. It is directly in European regulations. In our country, this authority, I don't know why, the Bank Board abandoned its officials. I think it's true. [[15.00 hours]] I'm glad the governor listens to me because this didn't happen on political grounds, this was a debate with those who run the financial institutions. And we are in such a situation that they do not want me to introduce them because they are afraid of the Czech National Bank's response and progress when they are critically heard. With that in mind, Mr Governor, I will not mention specific managers of specific financial institutions complaining about this. And just to the brink, this criticism and their attitude, I've been consulting them for about nine months. Until they told me that they would take the risk of bringing the criticism here, I didn't bring it here because I don't want to hurt them, and I don't want those sentences about the healthy financial sector to be valid. But I think that this is a matter, and I think that we might as well stop discussing the negotiations, at some of the next meetings of the budget committee, the Governor and his team can come up with specific examples, and I will be equipped with specific examples of interpretation opinions issued by the Czech National Bank, and we can ask how, for example, the Bank Board controlled it, or just let the officials, as I think, just go on a rampage and do what they want. And I'm not saying that they're wrong about anything, and I'm not saying that everything is wrong. Only the system is bad when there's no responsibility. The government has a responsibility to the Chamber of Deputies. We Members have a responsibility to Members. The Czech National Bank and its Bank Board also have a responsibility. And to whom do the officials of the Czech National Bank, the creators of these interpretational opinions answer? I believe that the true answer, unfortunately, is to no one. I do not doubt that this particular interpretation can be correct. But it is not equal to the communication between the financial sector and the Czech National Bank. A much stronger player for many of the reasons that I have mentioned is the Czech National Bank, and we as legislators should try, on the one hand, to clearly understand, support and not threaten the independence of the Czech National Bank. But there's this classic question about who controls the controller, who regulates the controller. And here I think the answer is no one at all. If the Governor considers it appropriate to perform today or some other time, when we need to discuss this in more detail on the Committee on Budgets, I would like to know what European practice says, how it is communicated and why it is decided by the equivalent of the Czech National Bank and why it does not want to do so. He didn't ask for it. At the time when the governor persuaded us some time last spring about the amendment that we finally approved, he and his colleagues had a lot of examples from other European countries and from European level, why it is good for us to increase the competence of the Czech National Bank. At a time when such an order is made completely differently in Europe, I did not notice an effort to inspire and have the same, for example, and that means increasing the responsibility of the Bank Board, which is important, but much more important is that the decision of the Czech National Bank is more predictable and that the position of the regulator and regulated is not so powerfully unbalanced for the benefit of the Czech National Bank. I know that the rapporteur here says that we have been discussing this for a long time, and he quoted when amendments were read everywhere - sometime in March, April, last in December, if I remember his speech well. But what I said today, we're way past that debate. And I suggest you, colleagues, we stop at the legislative run. We're not under any time pressure, the novel we approved is, I think, by the end of 2021. Am I right, Mr. Governor? If it turns out that it's necessary to prolong, it's much better for me to pass this amendment by, for example, one year, if it turns out that it's necessary, useful, but we'd have to know some experience with those powers, too. So I suggest we stop, evaluate the current situation, have an equal dialogue between the Czech National Bank and the financial market institutions. We may come to the conclusion that my criticism today was too harsh and that the view was too one-sided from financial institutions, that is possible, I admit, but that is why we would need time to debate with the Czech National Bank as well. So I would like to propose, Mr Vice-President, that we remain at second reading and that we remain at second reading before the end of the second reading, but only after the appearance of everyone who has volunteered, because I do not want to take the opportunity for them to prepare for this speech, that is, before the debate is closed after the speech of all those who sign up for the debate, the House voted on the procedural suspension of this point by the end of March. Then I think that we can use that time if you consider it as appropriate for us to debate the existing powers of the Czech National Bank to use the method of adoption, for a more detailed debate on the board of the budget committee, and see, for example, whether there will be a need to prepare an amendment that would clearly define the interpretation position, its bindingness. So we will have a chance and we will not possibly have to re-invite the amendment that we will approve. I hope, Mr Governor, that you will support the proposal to interrupt for about two months, because I think that this does not threaten what the Czech National Bank is doing, and I do not know - it may not be an appropriate opportunity today, but it may not be a bad time to get to the reports and points that are not directly legislative, and not only on the budget committee, but perhaps even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, to debate really seriously about the level of inflation and inflation targeting and why this is not being achieved, because the debate is not simple. I try to follow the views of both the Bank Board members and possibly economists outside the Bank Board. And I admit it's not easy, but it would be good to hear the arguments, hear the reasoning. We're still hearing that we're getting close, we're getting closer next year, and maybe we'll get there by now. And if you look at the year 2019, the report was very similar, it was similar in 2020, but we're already in 2021. Thank you for your attention. After the end of the debate, I would like to vote on this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u11	So after the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u12	No, before the end of the debate, after all the speakers have spoken, there is, if necessary, a possibility of having a more detailed debate, if there is a will, or if there is an amendment in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, which can still be read at second reading. If we close the debate today, we are no longer able to change the area I was talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u13	So before the end of the detailed debate, or the general? It's hard to hear here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u14	I think that before the general debate is over, after everyone has spoken of signing up for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u15	Yes, and the interruption by the end of March. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be next and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Mr. Governor, do you wish to respond now? [[Yes.]] Will we allow the Governor to react? [[Yes.]] Mr. Governor, come on, you have the floor. And then Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. So please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u16	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I will, of course, respond to the debate that the Member has held here before I make a few words on the proposal. His performance was very authentic. The problem is, we're not dealing with any law that regulates financial market supervision. The Czech National Bank performs several basic tasks within its mandate. This law, which is presented here, concerns a mandate which requires the CNB to ensure price stability, where I will comment on inflation, and a mandate that requires the CNB to take care of so-called financial stability. These are, for example, the areas of mortgage regulation, these are simply things that regulate the functioning framework, not the supervision of individual financial groups, the holders of different licenses and market players. [[15.10 hours]] So, besides that, the Czech National Bank really has the task of overseeing financial market entities. Originally supervision in the Czech Republic was not fully integrated into the Czech National Bank, which originally supervised only de facto banks. Only the amendment, a major reorganisation after the amendment in 2006 and subsequently the financial market supervision was integrated into the Czech National Bank. If you remember, the Securities Commission got canceled, the Ministry of Finance went over the supervision of insurance companies, the office that oversaw the campers, etc. Gradually some new supervisory issues arose, for example in the last place it was the area of supervision of non-bank credit companies. Financial market surveillance is governed by the specific laws that the House is discussing here. These are the Capital Market Act, the Bank Act, the Insurance Act, etc. etc. and they regulate each for themselves, especially their financial market sector, the way the Czech National Bank exercises supervision. The supervision... very simplisticly speaking, if there's any decision with any legal obligation, it's essentially governed by sectoral law and governed by the administrative order. In this case, the Czech National Bank acts as an administrative body, just as a number of other regulatory bodies in this country are acting in other areas of activity, such as the Czech Telecommunications Authority, the Office for Competition Protection, Food Inspection, the Czech Trade Inspection - and there are a number of other regulatory authorities in this country. All these bodies are governed by some kind of substantive law, or by the area they supervise, and then they use the administrative order to do so. In the tax area, it is specific that we also have a tax code as a special procedural standard in addition to the administrative order. So the Czech National Bank is in no way out of line with this generally established principle in this area. The fact that it issues some methodological opinions that it issues - in our case, a specific name that has been used - for example, surveillance benchmarks, which is nothing more than an interpretation of specific parts of the law, as basically there was a requirement to interpret the supervised market, because the market operators want to be sure whether the implementation of the law in a specific specific matter, because the law cannot describe every little thing, the regulator imagines one way or another. So it's not our... from the plezire that we would like to interpret the law here and make some sort of correction on our knees, but mostly it is after the debate and under the demand of the supervised market, and it is, of course, a legally recommended position. Only a court can interpret the law, that's normal, and the same is true in all the areas I've randomly named. There are also some methodological explanations of the Czech Trade Inspection and all possible other bodies that we can imagine. So it's nothing specific at all. And the measures that are being taken are, of course, being issued with the knowledge of the Bank Board - the fact that the Bank Board does not know that they are being issued is not true. But what's important is... The point is, we're not discussing these things here today. We don't have supervisory laws, capital market laws, banks, insurance companies, we don't have specific laws that regulate the functioning of individual parts of the financial market. We have a law on the Czech National Bank here and the amendment is focused mainly on the competences associated with the fulfilment of the mandate to ensure price and financial stability. So much for explaining it. I am very happy to attend the negotiations on the regulatory laws, the seminar, anything, if there is any interest, so we will be very happy to come and explain how we are progressing. And by the way, from the point of view of the functioning of these parts of the bank, if these things arrive - and often they do - we are, of course, in keeping with those supervised institutions - to the Supreme Administrative Court, in the vast majority of cases we will defend our position. So let's go back to the bill. The law, as the Minister, the rapporteur, has already described, is essentially aimed at extending the possibilities of operations for the Czech National Bank to fulfil its mandate to ensure price stability. I'm not going into details. Basically, it is a law that puts us at the level of today's quite normal standard, both in the EU countries and in other OECD countries, and essentially moves us to the present century, because the previous, existing law, to a large extent still comes from the late 1990s. By your means, Mr President, Mr President, says that the law and the short amendment, the crisis, let's say, was useless because it was not actually used. [[A note from the diaper.]] That's how I got it. [[Again an incomprehensible remark from the diaper.]] That's what happens. However, if that were the case, it's a very strange argument, because it's an argument of the type: we have the house insurance, he didn't burn down, so it was stupid to get the insurance. So at a time when we know that there is an increased risk of a problem, we here are adopting framework legislation that says: if there is a crisis situation, it can be done in this way and this way. So perhaps it is a good thing that such a law is not used, it is good that we did not have an insurance event and we did not have to buy massive government bonds, we did not have to bail out some, say, financial market critical points because something dramatic is happening. So I'm sorry, but I think this argument is wrong. The Member also criticized - and I really must say - that the Czech National Bank is perhaps not fulfilling its basic mandate, that is to say, care for price stability. So please, the reality is this: average inflation measured by the consumer price index for the period 2010 to 2020 is 1.8 in this country - 1.8. We have an inflation target of 2 %, so it cannot be said that this mandate is not implemented. Of course, we have years when there will be a spike, which will cross the border even within the framework of the toleration zone we're working on. That's understandable. No monetary institutions, especially in a small open economy, are directly affected by the consumer price index. Typically, these are, of course, energy commodity prices, especially oil, or, for example, food, where you can have 10 per cent of the base rate of the central bank, but if there is no potato or apple crop, then the commodity will just get expensive. There is no immediate effect that can be ensured. And everyone who moves a little bit on this matter respects that. So it really is a thing that is not true again. So I think I've responded to the major complaints. I believe that this law really needs to be approved. Basically, we're just getting closer to what's totally standard in Europe - we're securing the insurance. Again, it's crash insurance. And in my opinion, it's very irrational behavior to testify to the insurance policy or to let the policy run at a time when there's an increased risk of an insurance event. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u17	Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, has been prepared for a long time. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u18	Hopefully I can make it in two minutes. For the first time we have the Governor of the Czech National Bank, who is an experienced politician, former, and it was obvious. He used all the political tricks and many political fouls. He distracted, didn't talk about what I asked, tried to turn his opponent into a fool and used statistics that he didn't have any credit for. I'm sorry, Mr. Governor, but as the woods are called, it's coming from the woods. I wasn't talking about the 10-year average inflation. If you want to do averages, talk about average inflation for your mandate. Last week, you published annual inflation of 3.2 percent. This is about 60 percent off the inflation target. So imagine if someone else had missed 60 percent, Madam Secretary of State's spending or revenue by 60 percent, but she would have said: but on average the budget from Václav Klaus to Andrej Babiš was only minus 5 percent. So you're wrong, like you said, I'm wrong. So I'm wrong, how was inflation in 2020? You didn't publish that the Czech Statistical Office didn't publish 3.2 percent? And isn't the inflation target 2 %? Mathematically, I think we can count. It's almost 60 percent off. And I just wanted to have a debate about why this is happening. I haven't marked the culprits yet. But the governor has evolved, and he's still making fools of those who criticize it. I wasn't even criticizing it, I was just asking. And it's not like that with the insurance. I mean, if the law... I asked... I didn't say we didn't need to know. I said we didn't have any information on whether or not he used new tools. Now I've been informed that I haven't. And that's good news, I agree with you. You're the only one who wants more and more competence. And I wanted us to stop by and think about how the Czech National Bank works. I didn't expect to have a political debate with you, but if you're using these political tricks and fouls, don't be surprised I have to defend myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u19	Time. You just took a breath... [[Member of Stanjura: Okay, thank you.]] I've been waiting to see if you could say one sentence, but... of course, you can check in anytime. So I will now ask for Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech. I'll read two apologies before you get to the microphone. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga apologizes for work reasons throughout the meeting. And then here we have Minister Jan Hamáček, today for the afternoon meeting for work reasons. [[He's sorry.]] Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u20	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, hello, Madam Secretary, Mr. Governor. I may have been a little surprised at the beginning of today's general debate opening up the briefness of the Minister in the opening words. After all, it's been a year since we've been discussing this, and I think it's a shame that the Minister doesn't pay due attention to discussing this point. It seemed as if it was something unimportant, this proposal, something irrelevant, as if it were, let's say, a technical and only official matter, which is supposed to process here in some way: so if we already have approved it in a temporary law in a legislative emergency, let's extend it and that's it. This is not the case, and for me, the silence from the Minister was deafening, because it is sad that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance pay so little attention to extending the powers of the central bank and, say, disbanding the boundaries that can significantly affect the value of our citizens' finances as well as the situation in the area of housing. So I'm very sorry about the briefness. It's really the year that this amendment proposal was discussed here. Thank you, at least, to the rapporteur, for shed some more light on this. In fact, many things have happened this year. The amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank has been adopted several times, which has temporarily allowed the central bank so-called quantitative easing through the purchase of various assets in the financial debt market, bonds and so on, by the end of this year. I wanted to ask the Governor, but I understand that the central bank has not yet taken advantage of this power, if I have taken a good look at your performance, but I still think it is unreasonable to accept this power permanently for the central bank, when we do not yet know - the period has not yet passed - how the central bank will handle this power overall. The temporary option has not yet ended, and we should wait for an evaluation of how this authority has been dealt with. Here I would like to refer to the Senate's recommendation that we be very vigilant in this case. It should be stressed that, even in an economic community, there is no clear consensus on the correctness of this competence. Many economists draw attention to considerable risks. This is also an option and a power to select which fund to which company that saves the assets of the central bank in quotation marks and which condemns it to collapse. And do we know the criteria by which the central bank will decide? Do we know the criteria by which the central bank will decide? We don't! There is a danger that it will also maintain long-term so-called zombie companies. Are we sure if not this one, so how will each other's board decide? Will he make the right decisions? Do we have that certainty? We don't! Let us remember, for example, the long, too long, and too expensive intervention by the central bank against the koruna, by which it maintained artificially cheap work and maintained the competitiveness of the Czech Republic only by a low currency, which did not lead to pressure to increase productivity and higher added value. It maintained the state of the Czech economy as a cheap assembly house. So will the central bank always make the right decisions with these new powers? Another significant risk of quantitative easing is currency depreciation, population savings depreciation, and high inflation. The governor here spoke and compared this power to insurance and insurance. Well, that, ladies and gentlemen, is as if you put the power of attorney on the house to make any kind of contract at any cost to the insurance company. I understand that the insurance guy is directly aunting this possibility, but I don't think that's right. Unfortunately, every crisis leads to a permanent effort to increase the competence of state institutions. The central bank wanted to expand its power and influence even before the crisis, only now is a good time for the crisis. It is always argued that this is for the good of society, for financial stability, but in reality, the use of powers is often different from fantasies and popular declarations. Every authority has its perverted face. Unlike the government under the control of Parliament, the central bank is independent and therefore there is no control, or there is no appeal against its decision. The fact that she is independent is good, but it also means that we here in the House should really weigh and judge very sensitively several times, from all possible sides and angles of sight, any new competence and power that we entrust her with, and how much we will loosen up her maneuverability, because here comes the famous question - who will guard the watchman. So I ask you, colleagues who advocate this amendment, I ask you, Madam Secretary: do you really know that at any point in time the exercise of powers will be in order and will not cause any further problems? I'm not asking for faith, I'm asking for certainty. And of course you can't have it, which is why I'm appealing to your senses. Let's wait for the end of this trial period, and then let's evaluate the whole thing and get back to this law. The second area that I want to talk about is the new competences of the central bank in the area of mortgage loans, by establishing binding credit indicators, where the continuance of up to three indicators in the draft law is also very rare throughout Europe. Before the crisis came, we have literally heard the fear that we are in a certain mortgage bubble, that property prices are significantly overvalued and that the Czech National Bank must have competence to protect the banks' financial stability against this mortgage bubble. This is an old known tactic: to scare and, thanks to the scare, to gain new competence. [[15.30 hours]] Unfortunately, the crisis came sooner than expected and came much deeper than anyone expected. Every once in a while, I hear someone from the central bank saying and haunting us with a significant drop in the price of flats and houses. But what is the present reality? Has the price of real estate fallen significantly? Well, it didn't! Because real estate investment is a conservative investment. Has the number of outstanding mortgages increased significantly? It didn't grow, we're still moving around one percent. Yes, a moratorium helped, and it helps that commercial banks individually argue payment with their clients. But it turns out that this significant haunting is not fulfilled - luckily - and it turns out that commercial banks have conservatively approached mortgage lending and have not risked a mortgage bubble. And it turns out that their own risk management really works. How did the central bank itself proceed? Perhaps you will remember, colleagues, that, at a time of economic growth before the crisis, I believe she issued unprecedented recommendations for the co-operation of three indicators, which significantly delayed the possibility of taking out a mortgage to middle-income people already. At a time of crisis, the recommendation was mitigated. It released an indicator of the ratio of debt to net income of the applicant, increased the mortgage value of the property to 90 per cent, increased the ratio of the total debt service to the monthly income of the applicant to 50 per cent. I agree with the dislodgement, thank you for changing the attitude, for the dislodgement, just pointing out the paradox of the situation here. At a time of economic growth, we were warned, the central bank came up with the need for these powers to protect us from the mortgage bubble. And at a time of crisis, it loosened these indicators. So the proposal significantly strengthens the role of the central bank in housing policy. I would even say that by wanting to grant these powers to the central bank, the government is moving decisions on the availability of housing very significantly to the central bank. The strict use of these competences would reduce significantly the access of middle-income people to property housing. The problem is that the central bank - and the governor has stressed it here several times - will decide only from its point of view, i.e. with regard to the credit burden and the financial sector and financial stability. The Governor has pointed out here several times that he cannot - in the previous discussions - that the central bank and central bankers cannot judge other things that enter the housing sector, such as the lack of housing supply and the like. That it's not their responsibility. But that's just it - housing is the basis that we can't decide on just one aspect, and that's the credit burden that notabene, as I said here, works. The share of non-performing loans is significantly small. There will be many amendments that change the parameters of this competence of credit indicators. But if we only want to change parameters, do we agree to move the decision on housing availability to the central bank in large part? We really want to say that we agree with this: but only use two out of three or make more exceptions, such as for young people. I believe that housing is such a basis for the standard of living of the population that we cannot allow it to be decided only by a single criterion, and that is the financial sector. Property housing is also a form of property security, because it is more efficient to invest in own property, which the owner can sell in case of problems. And it's often more effective than paying for lending someone else's property. Nevertheless, these competences are intended by central banks to regulate the demand for ownership of housing. But the need to live in the Czech Republic will not diminish. The need to move into rental housing, where there is also a shortage of flats, so the rent and thus the cost of living will increase. It may also happen that, when credit indicators are misdetermined and combined, many families will not reach a mortgage and will be artificially held in the rental housing sector, although the mortgage payment would be identical or even lower than the rent. We can also get into this paradoxical situation. And I stress that without our control, without the possibility of government intervention and legislative power, this will be especially the decision of the central bank. The proposal to increase competences is a typical example of legislation where the scope for individual decision-making is narrowed. The scope for the agreement is narrowed down by two independent entities, in this case banks and their clients. Have the banks assess each client's individual situation. Our banking environment is very conservative, and for them it is often just a recommendation, which they follow in most cases as well, but they remain free to deviate according to exceptional cases. As I have already said here, in international comparison, the Czech Republic is achieving some of the best results in the European Union in terms of payment morality, which confirms a good assessment of risk and credit by the banks themselves. It is the proportion of outstanding mortgages before the crisis that went below one percent, which is evidence of the conservativeness of the banking sector and the prudent approach of individual banks in assessing their clients. As with quantitative easing, no one today knows how the central bank's advice will be decided and what will be important to them. Again, the question arises: Who will be the watchdog for the independence of the central bank? And I will repeat because I would like to point out one risk: In the event of the maximum use of these competences, it can actually happen that especially young families, but also a significant proportion of people with medium income on mortgages will not reach. Part of them will be looking for loans on a more expensive non-bank market, which will, of course, increase the risk of their insolvency. A large part of demand will shift to the rental housing sector, where there will be even more overpressure and the rental price will increase. And that's gonna be the moment that's gonna make people look for money where they can. And we can thus get into a dangerous spiral if the central bank makes the wrong decision to use these new competences. Therefore, as far as we know that the banking sector is working and the forms of recommendation are sufficient, let us be conservative, let us leave an assessment of the particular situation, a specific person to the specific bank that provides the mortgage. For this reason, in a detailed debate, I will also put forward an amendment which removes from the proposal of the amendment the competence of the central bank regarding the definition of credit indicators and thus preserves the existing and, in my view, perfectly satisfactory situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u21	I will now ask Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to speak and Mr Tomáš Martínek will prepare himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by responding to my colleague Munzar, with whom I work on a number of topics in the field of business support. However, here I would like to say a slight disagreement that the current situation is not really optimal. Because if I'm not mistaken, real estate prices went up by some 15 percent last year, and that's just not right. The rapid growth in real estate prices in recent years is the main problem that distances people in our country from their own housing, but it is a complex problem that needs to be resolved comprehensively. The question is how much we are able to deal with this law and how much it needs to be dealt with by other measures, such as the acceleration of construction, but also, for example, by changing access to real estate taxes and also by simplifying building law, authorisation processes in these areas, but also by promoting cooperative housing. [[15.40 hours]] So I really wouldn't dare say that the condition is optimal. At the same time, experience from the Nordic countries teaches us that if we don't set any rules for the banking sector, mortgages will just grow indefinitely, because if low interest and people can afford to pay back their mortgage, the total amount they have to pay will gradually increase. And it will grow. In some states, they already have mortgages that you've been paying back for a hundred years, so the mortgage has really become rent. And I am quite glad that the Czech National Bank is considering this problem and that we can talk about how to solve this problem. At the same time, I see a weakness in the fact that regulation may not prove to be 100%, because there may be some groups out there - typically the self-employed with spending flats will have less income according to the law than their real income - and other problems that may show up in practice, which we focus on. But I certainly wouldn't say that the situation is good today as far as housing availability is concerned. It's just an introduction. Anyway, back to the House press. He has two parts that are both very important. Paradoxically, the first part may be far more important in the impact on the economy of the country itself, the one that concerns new powers in the field of unconventional monetary policy. This is actually more important, but the public is more interested in the second part, which sets the limits according to which the national bank can adjust the rules for access to mortgages and which is also very important. I find it a little unfortunate that the two issues have merged into one law. So if at least in part someone agrees with the solution in one area and does not agree with the solution in the other area, then they have to deal with it in some way and it complicates the debate, because both things really have a fundamental impact. I will primarily focus on the area of unconventional monetary instruments, my colleague Martínek will supplement me in the area of mortgage market regulation. We believe that in the crisis, it is appropriate for the national bank to have the opportunity to intervene and support the economy in some way. But we have doubts as to whether those powers should apply permanently without any ties to whether there is a crisis or whether there is a crisis. We also see some instruments as risky, especially the possibility of buying corporate bonds and shares. This is indeed a matter which, above all, on the Czech market - we would not mind so much about the foreign and world market - but it can make a big mess on the Czech market, because the national bank is of course a hugely strong institution compared to the relatively weak market, so if it decided to do some intervention there in the end, it has a terrible deal with the market. Of course, at this point, we have quite a lot of confidence in a national bank that functions as a professional institution. There are some reservations about some operations in relation to China, but let's say this is a minority issue in relation to the overall portfolio. But otherwise, we really believe that the institution works professionally and does what it has to do. But first, we have no guarantee that this will be the case for the long term. Secondly, there's just no control and no boundaries. For this reason, we propose a compromise solution, namely a time limit to those powers. We propose an extension of two more years compared to the current situation. There will also be better room for those current powers to evaluate. So this is the solution we're proposing in this area. Furthermore, we propose strengthening the transparency of the national bank itself. We think that the operating part of the national bank should normally fall under the contract register. We don't actually see any difference there against other public institutions. We are talking about operating contracts, such as the operation of IT systems and such things, where we really do not see any reason for any exception. So we propose strengthening the CNB's transparency in this area. And a comment on the mortgage market. We see as a risk in our economic team that there is not much to invest money effectively in the Czech Republic. Pension funds, when compared to inflation, often have a real negative yield. The local stock market doesn't work very well. And so, logically, people put their money in real estate. That's one of the things that drives prices up. So we think that one of the ways to tame the rising prices of real estate is, among other things, to make the Czech stock market more operational and clear, to make it work better at all. I think that here the government and politicians could set an example in showing good practice, where people who have money today prefer to invest, for example, in American markets, because they have more confidence in them. And here we see a big reserve, which we think is also one of the problems that can eventually contribute to solving it so that the property bubble doesn't grow so fast. Finally, I have a question for the Governor when he is here, and it also concerns very closely the activities of the national bank. We have considered this as an amendment, but we will probably wait for his statement first. It is a question of the management of foreign reserves, where the national bank has huge foreign reserves in the order of trillions of crowns, which I believe are primarily denominated in euro and dollar bonds. The portfolio structure is such as to minimise the risk of a national bank, if I understand correctly. However, the minimization of the risk is also linked to minimizing the yield of these funds. So I wanted to ask whether the national bank also considered an alternative that at least part of these funds would be used in such a way that they would, on the contrary, yield some kind of income. Similarly, Singapore or Norway. In a situation where foreign reserves reach trillions, one percent of the yield brings huge money. Moreover, the national bank is in some accumulated loss that needs to be resolved in some way if we head to the euro area over time. And this is something that could contribute to the solution. So I'd like to ask the governor about the management of foreign reserve assets and the targeting of the portfolio in relation to risk and yield. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u23	A point of fact, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Two minutes. Mr. Governor, when you want to respond, let me see. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u24	Thank you. I, for a colleague of Ferjenčík, who, at the beginning of his performance, argued with something that I did not say here. I certainly did not say that I consider existing housing prices ideal and that housing is available. All I said here was that we were scared by the central bank to gain these powers, and her assumptions weren't fulfilled. That's the first thing. Second thing. I agree with you. The problem is high housing prices, but we will not solve this competence for the central bank and regulation of demand. I said here that it would cause the demand for housing to shift from ownership to the rental sector, where it would push the price increase for rent again. That's what I said here. I didn't say the prices of flats were ideal. [[15.50 hours]] Second thing. I agree with you, we say it too, I say it over the long term that the problem of housing prices is particularly on the supply side, it is on the side of the construction law, the length of the permit process, even the construction standards that are expensive to build housing. I was one of those guys who's been wanting to cut the housing costs for people since the beginning, to cancel the real estate tax. In the end, and thank you for all this to the House, we have succeeded, but I certainly do not think that the new powers of the central bank in mortgage loans will lead to a reduction in the price of flats - it will only lead to mortgages becoming unavailable for some people and will have to pay for lending foreign property. If it goes over with the credit indicators, then the rent would be higher for them than any mortgage payment, but they wouldn't get a mortgage because of the credit indicators. That is why they would be raising funds on a non-bank market, which could put them in new trouble. So I just wanted to explain it because you were arguing with something that I didn't say at all. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u25	I will now ask Mr Tomáš Martínek to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u26	Thank you. I would first perhaps briefly follow up on the previous debate about the fact that brokers themselves, as well as the real estate market experts themselves, have recently said that one of the main reasons for raising the property price by some 15 percent compared to last year is the abolition of property acquisition tax. I would just like to say that we have proposed some possibility here with an amendment that would favour Czech buyers in front of foreign investors, who still deposit money with us by buying real estate and thus increase the price of real estate at all. But that's for the record. Of course, it is a debate that will still be held in the long run. For this reason too, I believe that the CNB should not have such high powers that it could directly set income criteria. The CNB notes that in January 2019 it was possible to establish credit indicators in 20 of the 31 countries examined by European countries. All three credit indicators can be determined by law only in Slovakia. LTV can be established by law in 16 out of 20 countries where the law allows it. DTI can be established in 3 out of 20 countries where the law allows it. DSTI can be established in 7 out of 20 countries where the law allows it. These CNB statistics also show that LTV is mainly used in most countries where there is the possibility of legal regulation of credit indicators. If the LTV were to be determined on the values declared by the CNB by its recommendation, it should provide the bank with sufficient guarantees for any compensation if the debtor was unable to repay the property loan. The methods used by the CNB indicate that in mid-2018 the prices of flats were overvalued by around 10 percent in view of the development of economic fundamentals. Credit indicators based on applicants' income may not be an objective measure. It is not appropriate to take the current income as a berné coin for many further years of the duration of the mortgage loan. Banks could have difficulty determining the fulfilment of these credit indicators, such as fixed-term workers, tradesmen using flat-rate expenditures or persons with income that the bank may not accept, such as scholarships, etc. In many cases, Czech banks demonstrate the ability to adequately estimate the client's credit based on their own tests. For the reasons set out above, this amendment, which I am actually talking about at the moment, leaves the Czech National Bank only with recommendations to establish LTVs by law and, at the same time, credit indicators based on the applicant's income, i.e. DTI and DSTI. Here I would like to add one more up-to-date issue, which will be dealt with next year, and this is the issue of flat-rate tax, because we have approached several commercial banks and asked them how they will proceed with people who have started using newly approved, or mostly Houses approved flat-rate taxes. At this point, commercial banks do not know how they will assess the client's credit if they do not have the tax returns surrendered. De facto, the banks in response also claim that they are waiting for some information from the Czech National Bank to know what sufficient information is for her about the client's credit, which the CNB will consider as having actually checked her enough. So I don't know; I'd like to ask the governor here if he has any idea how businesses who use flat-rate taxes could prove their income in order to achieve, for example, mortgages, because commercial banks themselves are not clear about this at the moment. Of course, I can imagine some information based on cash flow in the account or something like that, but we have a situation where I don't know exactly how many people in the Czech Republic, if 50,000 people started using flat-rate taxes, so it is already a rather significant group and of course it will probably increase, so if the CNB already has any idea of how it will deal with it. This is therefore the first amendment concerning mortgage loans. In addition, we would also like to allow for further extension of lending. I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets has adopted my amendment, which newly allows it to meet the age condition set in the law de facto for more favourable conditions in assessing the client's credit, so that at least one of the applicants complies with the age condition. On the other hand, this proposal was adopted in a modified form, where it must actually be a formal relationship, which I do not think is desirable for some applicants. I would therefore also propose to adopt this amendment in its original form, when the Government's draft law in Section 45b actually introduces relief for young applicants for credit in the form of mitigated upper limits of credit indicators. In practice, when setting the upper limit of one or more indicators by the Czech National Bank, the upper limit of these indicators will be 10 percentage points higher for applicants up to 36 years - in the case of LTVs, 5 percentage points higher for DSTIs and DTIs by 1 year times net revenue. Where a loan is requested by more than one person, typically pairs, the requirement for the age criterion for applying this derogation shall be met by all applicants. Given the current housing situation in the Czech Republic, we propose to mitigate the requirement for the age criterion for more people. We propose that enough is enough that one of the persons applying for credit must comply with this age condition. In the event that there is at least one person under 36 years of age among the applicants, the assumption remains that the person is likely to increase income relatively more quickly than the older person's career and, at the same time, the assumption of a longer career allowing a longer period of mortgage repayment remains valid. This amendment prevents discriminatory situations where applicants, for example 37 and 30 years of age, would not, according to the original proposal, be able to obtain a lower rate of credit compared to two applicants aged 35 years. So that is another amendment. I would also like to say that we would like point 16 to be deleted. We regard the explicit legislative anchoring of the CNB's ability to establish a legal person to support the performance of its tasks or to take part in it as redundant, as the petitioner himself states in the detailed part of the explanatory memorandum. To date, this eventuality has been based on a generally defined authorisation to carry out investment activities to safeguard the tasks of the central bank, which is contained in the current version of paragraph 40. As the petitioner goes on to say, the CNB has already invested in Czech financial companies, s. r. o., and Swift. We believe that the current wording of paragraph 40 is sufficient, so we propose that it be maintained. On the contrary, the adoption of the amendment to paragraph 40, as proposed by the petitioner, and the establishment of an explicit rule of authorisation by the CNB to establish or participate in a legal entity, may result in subordinate companies being used for activities that are not directly part of the CNB's authorised activities. [[16.00 hours]] Furthermore, we would like to correct the amendment, which I have already mentioned regarding the age limit, which is set by law for 36 years, because the State Investment Support Fund, which also publishes a similar programme to support housing development for young people, when loans are newly bounded not by age 36 but by 40 years, wants to inspire and adjust it in this law and to push the age limit to the higher age limit, i.e. 40 years. I would also like to justify the last amendment, which seems to me to be one of the most important ones. The proposal sets out the obligation of the CNB to publish trades which it will carry out under its new jurisdiction. It is published immediately in a way that allows remote access, and if publication would jeopardise the CNB's activities, it is possible to postpone part of the publication. The original government bill is designed so that the new text of Section 32 significantly extends the powers of the Czech National Bank, especially in the field of trade in the financial market. These powers are already available to the Czech National Bank, but within a limited time limit. Transparency is generally regarded as a means of increasing confidence in public institutions. In this case, transparency is a means of increasing the credibility and responsibility of the central bank. It is therefore proposed that the CNB should publish without undue delay information on how it implements its newly acquired and further acquired powers. We propose that the CNB publish the following information on transactions under newly acquired powers: the designation of the counterparty, unless it is a transaction on a regulated market, a multilateral trading venue or a community exchange; the value of the trade and the designation of the subject of the transaction, in particular the designation of its issuer. It is unimaginable that the CNB would not publicly inform about its decisions regarding conventional monetary policy, namely interest rates. So should public information, what business the CNB carries out on the financial market and how much it carries out on the financial market. Since the financial crisis in 2008, the European Central Bank has been carrying out non-standard operations on the money and capital markets. As of June 2017, information on quantitative easing programmes has been published at the level of detail within which the counterparty's name, ISIN numbers and other information on purchased bonds are listed. The information is published and updated every week. That is why, and because the CNB itself is actually referring to the ECB's competence for its own use, we would also like transparency to be introduced at the same time as at least at the level provided by the European Central Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u27	Now, let me see if anybody's in the general debate, I've got no one else registered. Yes, Mr. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u28	I really wanted to ask the governor if he could respond to the questions. I don't think we're going to delay this today, but I think the questions from both me and my colleague Martínek were relevant, and then we have a vote. So I wanted to ask for the reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u29	I'll look around the O.R. to see if there's any interest... So the governor's interested because... It's on everyone's free will whether they want to get off or not. Well, Mr. Governor, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Given the time that I think is very expensive, I'm not going into the merit of the matter. In terms of foreign reserves, very simply: we have two basic piles. The smaller one - about 40 percent - is actually invested only in terms of liquidity and minimum risk, so that it is the means that we can use at any time if we need some monetary policy operations. The 60 per cent is invested much more in terms of revenue; 20 percent of that 60 percent is in shares today, for example, so it is really trying to get more of that yield, but of course we also have to take care of some reasonable risk profiles there. I'm gonna send you some written text that's gonna be exhausting. And now I've forgotten the second thing my colleague Martínek asked... [[From the diaper, it echoes: Flat-rate tax.]] Yeah, I know, flat-rate tax. I won't answer you now. We will definitely consult with the Czech Banking Association, and we have enough time to think about it, it is actually up to next year, and we will find some model to agree on how to assess it from the point of view of the risk that is relevant to them and for, say, our view. And I'll also send you some written information later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u31	Thank you. Good afternoon, we'll continue. If I have the right information, we are in a general debate, at this point I have no further applications. However, here I have been presented with a procedural proposal to vote before the end of the general debate on the interruption until the end of March. I see an application for check-out, I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your cards. And when the number of entries is settled, if it reaches the number needed for the vote... A few more... There seems to be enough of us, so I will repeat, we will vote on the interruption of this point before the end of the general debate by the end of March. I'm opening vote number 87. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 87, 79 Members and Members were finally enrolled, for 23, against 20. The motion was denied. I'll wait to see if there's any protests, because I know there was a lot of movement in the room, but it doesn't look like it was, so it doesn't look like we're gonna approve the proposal. So we will continue with a general debate that I no longer have applications for, and if no one else is reporting, I am ending this general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the Minister's final words in the debate - that is not so. In that case, we should now vote on some proposals, but none of these have been mentioned, so I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be duly justified. And I have three applications for a detailed debate at this time. So, as first Mr Munzar, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u32	Thank you. As I have already announced here in the general debate, I am putting forward an amendment under number 4439 concerning the exclusion from the draft amendment of competence regarding credit indicators and thus maintaining the current situation. Furthermore, allow me, on behalf of my colleague, Jan Skopeček, who is not present today, to read four more of his amendments, the first under number 4824. This is just leaving the indicator, the so-called LTV, that is, three of one. Another Amendment 4823. It concerns the maintenance of standard monetary policy instruments, the use of unconventional monetary instruments of quantitative easing is abolished by this amendment. Another amendment by Mr Skopecký 4822. Increase in exemptions from 5 to 10 %. Another amendment under number 4821. It concerns the age when, according to the amendment, one of the applicants would be under 36 years of age. You will find more detailed reasons, ladies and gentlemen, in the system for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u33	Thank you. These were Mr Munzar's proposals. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Martínek will be prepared in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already announced in the general debate, I am turning to my two amendments. One is under number 7250 and the other under number 7251. One of them deals with the issue of extending the register of contracts for the Czech National Bank. I stress that there is talk of operating expenditure of the Czech National Bank. Of course, we are not talking about disturbing any banking secrets, talking purely about infrastructure expenditure, IT systems and such things, in accordance with the Free Access to Information Act, of course. The second of the proposals concerns the limitation of the validity or effectiveness of this law only for a period of two years, so that we can assess whether the instruments have proved to be successful, whether we really want to introduce them permanently and simplistically, so that we can really apply it only to this current crisis and then decide how to deal with them further. You will also find reasons within the Houses of Documents as such. Finally, I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance for allowing the legislative technical control of these proposals. I appreciate the fact that the Ministry works in this as a service for all Members, not just for the government. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendments that we mentioned in the general debate. First, to House document 4432, which would have allowed only LTV to be determined by law. Furthermore, there is a House document 4433 which would adjust the age conditions so that it is sufficient that only one of the applicants fulfils them. Furthermore, the House of Document 5517, which repeals Section 40. In addition, the House of Law 5518 increases the age of the State Investment Support Fund from 36 to 40 years. In addition, it is Housed Document 5520, which is on the Government's proposal, as amended by the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which has already adopted my amendment in order to suffice that only one spouse fulfils the condition, and here it also increases the age to 40 years out of 36. I would also like to sign up to House document 7114, which should ensure transparency in quantitative easing operations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr. Rozvoral is reporting from the scene. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby submit to my colleague Jan Hrnčíř's amendment, which is listed in the system as House document 5482. The objective of the proposed measure is to ensure that applicants for a loan under 40 years of age achieve relief in the form of higher upper limits of credit indicators, even if only one of them fulfils this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u39	Thank you. I have yet to note that Mr Ferjenčík is reporting back from his post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u40	Thank you for the floor. Since the second reading of this law takes place at least from February 2020, I have left out one more amendment. This is proposal number 5551, which I also apply to. For reasons of urgency, see the Annex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-005-011.u41	Thank you. Those were all the applications I know about. If anyone else does not report to a detailed debate, I am also ending the detailed debate on this press. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or the rapporteur. This is not the case, there have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time. So I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. Let's move on to the next point. That's what it is.
