ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-006-042.u1	42. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Electronisation of Health /German press 1164/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, please state this point to the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-006-042.u2	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to mention a related government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Electronisation of Health. This government proposal contains several amendments to the laws in which there are links to the institutes and procedures regulated by the Act on the Electronisation of Health. These are the following laws: Act on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, Act on archiving and writing services, Act on sickness insurance, Act on medicines and Act on health services. In the draft amendment to the Act on the establishment of ministries and other central government bodies, the scope of the Ministry of Health is complemented by the electronicisation of health care. The purpose of the amendment of the bill on archiving and the file service is thus to harmonise the rules for public and private-law authors in the treatment of medical documentation, that is to transfer it to the regime under special legislation, in this case under the regime of the Health Services Act. The amendment to the Health Insurance Act allows the Czech Social Security Administration and the occupational health insurance authorities to use the system access certificates of health service providers issued by the Ministry of Health under the Act on the Electronization of Health Services. At the same time, the Czech Social Security Administration is also allowed to use existing access certificates of health service providers issued by the State Institute for Drug Control before the amendment becomes effective, in order to verify the identity of the attending doctor for the duration of its validity. The period of validity shall then be set at two years. The amendment to the Act on Medicines also allows the above-mentioned Resort System Certificates of Health Service Providers to be used in the eRecipe system. The amendment to the Health Services Act takes into account the impact of the Act on the Electronisation of Health in the legislation defined by this Standard. As you can see, these are very pragmatic adjustments that are needed in order for the Act on the Electronisation of Health to take up its real functions. Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support me now in this government bill, which follows up on the government bill on the electronicisation of health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-006-042.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-006-042.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As has been said, you have heard that this is, in fact, a technical matter, a link between the new law and several other laws, so that it has a legislative order, so I have nothing to add to that, only that in a detailed debate I will then also ask for a shortening of deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-006-042.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I will use my right of the President. Unfortunately, I received sad news that our colleague Jiří Ventruba had just died of COVID-19 disease. Please let us honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[The present rose and honored the memory of Mr Jiří Ventruba with a minute's silence.]] Thank you. According to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am now opening a merged general debate on points 41 and 42.
