ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u1	356. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1025/ - third reading Please make room at the news desk... Ms Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, who is also heading to the rapporteur's table, have already taken on behalf of the draftsman. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 1025/5, which was delivered on 22 January 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was then delivered as the House Press 1025/6. I am now asking the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, I have repeatedly expressed my views on the content and objectives of the bill, so today I would like to emphasise the need to adopt a truly functional version of the cursarbeit which will help tens of thousands of businesses and firms and hundreds of thousands of employees, and this will protect them from collapse or termination. Kurzarbeit, if it is functional and has to be functional, fulfills this function. I guess I don't have to mention that very quickly in March the sewn cursarbeit form, the Antivirus program, worked perfectly. It is the most effective government program and Antivirus, which we have activated for the first time in history in the Czech Republic, prepared within a few days, helped every fourth enterprise in the Czech Republic and every fourth employee. Thanks to Antivirus, we still have the least unemployed throughout the European Union, but low unemployment is not a matter of course. That is why we need cursarbeit, a functional cursarbeit so that we really keep unemployment on a bearable scale, because in addition to the fact that unemployment is a tragic thing for particular fates, it is also a very expensive thing in terms of mandatorial spending. There are dozens of amendments tabled here, which can fundamentally affect the functionality of the cursarbeit, and I stress once again that after such a long discussion - and I remind you that the bill has been discussed in this honourable House since September - the result will be important. I think Kursarbeit... If we fail to approve it in the next few days, we will not be able to approve it in a form that will work, it will have only one effect - for almost a year now fighting companies and employees, people and companies without money will collapse because the light at the end of the tunnel will not be, there will be huge uncertainty, if - I don't even have to repeat it, one thing is absolutely overwhelming for the economy, and that is huge uncertainty. You can count on an increase in unemployment to be very severe. The predictions we have at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are unhappy, and I firmly hope that they never will. I really hope that in the order of the next few months of the script they will not be fulfilled and that we will have a cursarbeit that will help, will work and can bridge the time before the vaccination works. Now let me express myself as I did on the Committee on Social Policy, on individual aspects. I will follow two major comprehensive amendments: on the one hand, the amendment by Mr Sklenák, who was prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with the social partners, with all four presidents or presidents of tripartite organisations, on the other hand, the amendment by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and Mrs Pastuchová. Once again, the key principles that cursarbeit must meet are certainty for businesses, employees, speed of assistance - it has fallen about a million times in the last year: who gives quickly, twice gives - it must be transparent conditions of support, that is, objective and known criteria for obtaining a contribution. It must also be, and this is the fundamental essence of cursarbeit, minimum requirements for cash flow companies and protection of employees from a radical decline in income. These are the two main functions of cursarbeit, meaning the minimum requirement for cash flow and maximum protection of employees against falling income. As a result, the economy is also stabilized from a macroeconomic point of view. All these criteria are met by Mr Sklenák's amendment. On the other hand, Mrs Pastuchová and Aulická's amendment makes it only a theoretical instrument that does not help. It's basically just a copy of the Antivirus with a lot of bugs. Let me mention that the tripartite repeatedly supported Mr Sklenák's amendment and warned against Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and Mrs Pastuchová's amendment. I think that we should discuss this factually, because it could happen to us here for the second time in history, if the amendment of the two Members were approved, that we would have the cursarbeit instrument legally anchored for the second time in history, but at the same time it would not be functional. In addition to tripartite and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the labour authorities also draw attention to Mrs Aulická and Pastuchová's amendment and point out that it will not be feasible in practice. The difference between the two proposals is how quickly and effectively cursarbeit can help businesses, i.e. whether they can rely on it and whether it will relieve them of additional wage costs. Kurzarbeit has three stages. The first is the start of the cursarbeit, the second is the inclusion of the firm in the cursarbeit or in the scheme including regular payment of the aid, that is the third stage. And I would like to make a substantive comparison here, step by step, as these individual stages deal with both competing proposals. So let's get to the first stage, and that's starting the cursarbeit. [[Noise in the hall.]] Kurzarbeit is launched by the government, which sets the conditions for the crisis. This must also be borne in mind that the law only sets -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues in the room for more peace. I think we're getting noise levels here, and it would be good to keep it adequate so that we can hear each other. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u4	Thank you, Mr President. This means that, once again, it must be stressed that the law sets only the framework conditions, and that the specific ones that are a response to the nature of the crisis are set by the government as such. With the amendment by Mrs Aulická, the government will launch the cursarbeit without any consultation with tripartite. It threatens that the terms of the cursarbeit declared for the crisis will not be sufficient in practice and the cursarbeit will miss its effect. As a result of this aid, the State will pay businesses inadequately and people will lose their jobs. I will just mention that the Antivirus has saved and supported more than a million jobs in the last less than a year, and almost 70,000 Czech companies, especially small ones, were almost 90 percent of them up to 25 employees. According to Mr Sklenák's amendment, the government will already discuss the terms of the cursarbeit with tripartite, i.e. those to which the cursarbeit applies as such. On one side of the union, on the other side of employers. And only on the basis of information and discussion with tripartite will the government set the conditions to help cursarbeit in the crisis in question as effectively as possible. [[13.20 hours]] In Germany, as it has worked for decades, cursarbeit is used for the economic crisis in particular, but is also intended to assist in natural disasters, cyber attacks, etc. This means helping other than economic crises. Phase two: inclusion of enterprises in the cursarbeit. Following the launch of cursarbeit by the government, the Labour Office will decide on the inclusion of individual enterprises in this support scheme. In Mr Sklenák's amendment, this will work on the basis of pre-known, transparent and understandable rules. The firm will know that it is entitled to the aid if it meets pre-known conditions on the extent of the so-called non-laundering or limitation of dividend payments. That's very important. In the case of Mrs Aulická's amendment, the official of the employment office is to decide on the inclusion of the company in the course of cursarbeit. Yes, you can hear correctly: the office clerk. This will reduce the firm's security, but also the employees to whom the cursarbeit is intended to help in particular. The decision here, as drafted by Mrs Aulická's amendment, lies solely at the discretion of the official. Moreover, officials' decisions may differ on a case-by-case basis or from a region - logically, we have 14 regional authorities. That goes against the logic of cursarbeit. He has to apply to all equally, to be predictable, consistent and transparent. With the help of the officials of the Labour Office in the decision-making process, according to the amendment, the Member of the Aulická Advisory Board has the Labour Office. That's a theory. In practice, this will be a major complication and support will be delayed in months, at a time when the crisis is likely to rule and the company's survival will be decided every day. The Advisory Councils of the Labour Office shall meet approximately twice a year. They can't be forced to meet more often. And even if they did, those people, members of the Advisory Councils, have their own jobs and can't manage a crowd of requests in such a short period of time. Today, they would have to study applications and discuss support for more than 66,000 businesses in the order of days. I can't imagine doing this on a voluntary basis. And if so, I don't want to evaluate the quality of this decision-making process. The condition for discussing assistance by the Advisory Councils of the Labour Offices, according to Mrs Aulická's parliamentary proposal, is unacceptable from the point of view of supported companies. If discussion is to help specific businesses make sense, then the Advisory Councils must have detailed information about these enterprises, namely their accounting, the number of employees, the economic outlook, but also the remuneration of these employees. However, employers' representatives, often the competition of those whose economic survival will be decided, also normally sit in the advisory bodies of the labour authorities. An undertaking which, in accordance with Mrs Aulická's amendment, would ask for support would thus reveal sensitive information to its competitors. I think it's very unsystemic. For Mr Sklenák's amendment, the decision to include businesses in the cursarbeit is therefore quick and transparent. On the contrary, Mrs Aulická's amendment to the inconspicuous, enormously lengthy and with a number of risks. But let's go to the final stage, and that's the payment of the aid. Where an undertaking is included in the Kursarbeit, the Labour Office may request support each month to maintain its staff. Here, too, there are huge differences between the two main proposals. The amendment by Mrs Aulická will be useless in some types of crisis. It allows any employee to be supported only if between 20 and 80 per cent of the working hours worked during the month. The extent of the obstacles is assessed for each individual employee. Thus Kurzarbeit cannot be used in natural disasters or even in health crises as a current epidemic. If the production line is stopped due to quarantine, the employee on the line cannot work at 20 per cent. On the contrary, Mr Sklenák's amendment requires that 20 to 80 per cent of working time be worked in the company as a whole. In the amendment by Mrs Aulická, for example, in natural disasters, ad hoc assistance will be needed. Not in the case of Cursarbeit, according to Mr Sklenák's amendment. But even then, the business doesn't win. They have to pay their employees wages and pay their wages, and only then can the employment office ask for help. We are talking about Mrs Aulická's proposal. It is essentially the same approach as with the current Antivirus, and in a time of crisis when the company needs every crown, it needs it quickly, so the amendment, or the version of Mrs Aulická will let the companies prefinance. I guess I don't have to stress that this was the biggest weakness or is the most criticized part of the Antivirus program. Mr Sklenák's amendment understands the needs of businesses much better and works the other way around. First, the support of the company from the employment office, and then it is not necessary for the companies to secure cash flow. I could go on, there's really a lot. I see time is running out, which is why I'd like to sum it up. If necessary and as part of the following debate, I would like to explain other shortcomings, particularly with regard to dividend payments, transparency, speed and support for employees, because I think that the compensation for income received by employees in cursarbeit should be the same for all. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much for a quick and considerate decision in the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u5	Thank you. I don't know how fast it's gonna be, 'cause we've got another point fixed at 1:30. However, I am opening a debate in which I have two written applications at the moment. However, I also have Mrs Šafránková's authority here to present... the rapporteur also wants to speak with priority rights. So if Mrs. Šafránková will allow, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u6	Thank you for the floor, there really isn't much time left. I would just like to say that the Committee on Social Policy, as a guarantee committee, discussed the House's press on 3 February of this year. It has already been said that we have met a really large number of amendments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u7	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues in the O.R. to move any discussions elsewhere. It's really canceling. Please continue, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u8	So once again, I will say that it has already been said that a large number of amendments have been tabled. We've dealt with a total of 42. As the Minister said, there are two fundamental amendments, namely Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and Mrs Pastuchová, and the second, Mr Sklenák's amendment. As regards the other amendments, they were tabled either on the original government proposal or on the government proposal of those fellow Members, or on Mr Sklenák's amendment, or amendments are tabled which have nothing to do with the cursarbeit. So we, as a guarantee committee, voted on these proposals. I must say that my colleague Aulická Jírovcová and Pastuchová's Social Committee agreed to the amendment. As far as Mr Sklenák's amendment is concerned, he was adopted without an opinion. That's all on my side so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u9	Thank you. We will therefore continue the open debate, in which Mrs Šafránková is signed up with priority law with the SPD's opinion. I'll tell you what, I'll stop you at 1:30. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to the opinion of our SPD MEP, which has long advocated systemic protection of jobs, protection of workers and support for employers, especially in cases where they are affected by longer and broad crises such as the current epidemic and related restrictive measures. [[13.30 hours]] The present difficult time requires the necessary changes in the setting of employment protection, even in the long term - the sooner the better. Their aim must be to prevent the emergence of unemployment to a greater extent, the collapse of small Czech companies in particular, and the decline of our employees and citizens into serious social and existential problems. Of course, setting this special support at a time of partial employment or unemployment must be transparent, clear, fast, fair and non-discriminatory. From the point of view of the form of cursarbeit, it is therefore extremely important for us that all employees, including those who are in a fixed-term employment relationship, should be entitled to this support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-006-356.u11	Now, Madame, I will interrupt you here. You will be able to finish your speech the next time we get to this point, however, at this point, and at this point, I am closing it and interrupting it. So we're going to move on to the point that we're firmly assigned to 13.30, which is item 18 of the show. This is the point
