ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 17/2012 Coll., on Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws / House print 983/ - second reading I see Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Home Secretary Jan Hamáček preparing himself. I'll just make sure the Rules of Procedure are in place. I repeat, we're at second reading. Under the authority of the Government, Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Interior Minister, will state the bill. I still note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 983/2. Under the agreement, Mr Lukáš Kolářík is an alternate but approved rapporteur for the Security Committee. I will ask him to take the floor at the rapporteur's table, and now I will give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, this bill was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. As has been said, it has been discussed by the Security Committee, which adopted a comprehensive amendment. The main content is that the proposal allows the Police of the Czech Republic access to the register of outstanding payments of organs Customs and brings a new authorisation of police officers and customs officers to claim, when checking the vehicle, the payment of the driver's or vehicle operator's due payment for their final penalty for a traffic offence, in cash or through a payment terminal. In the event of non-payment at the check-point, the officer or customs officer shall be entitled to order the driver to drive to the nearest appropriate place and to hold tables, registration marks or to prevent the vehicle from driving using a so-called shoe. Tables, registration marks will be returned or the vehicle will be released only if the payment is paid. This therefore concerns the defaults on the final fines for traffic offences. On the basis of the amendment, a similar authorisation shall be given to the officers of the municipal police, in the event of a non-payment for traffic offences committed in the territory of the municipality. The primary objective, of course, is to increase road safety. We have a number of notorious non-payers here, mainly foreign drivers who often transit the Czech Republic and simply do not pay the fines. If we pass this law, we will put a very powerful tool in the police's hands to enforce these non-payments. I promise to increase road safety from this, so I consider it a very important bill and please discuss it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. I will ask Lukáš Kolářík, as rapporteur to the Security Committee, to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the opening speech by the Minister, I will just add that, in the context of the subcommittee on the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and the Esbéesky and subsequently on the Security Committee, all the Members present, across the political spectrum without distinction, have accepted the amendments set out in the resolution of the Security Committee and are available to you as Parliamentary Press 983/2. These are changes that are part of the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Police of the Czech Republic in the Houses of Press 642. Once again, only amendments were taken from this press, on which there was absolute agreement both in the subcommittee and in the committee. There is therefore no use of information from the intelligence services of the Czech Republic and their use as evidence in criminal proceedings, which was already criticized at the beginning of the discussion of this press, even though it is not part of it. The right to hold tables, registration marks, which the amendment gives to the Police of the Czech Republic and the Customs Administration, should also be based on the logic of the matter, the municipal police, who carry out their duties on this section as police, and thanks to police personnel problems even more often. So much in brief the amendments adopted by the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening the debate at second reading, first general, and I have Mr Marek Benda's application for this. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister asked me if I was going to destroy it for him. I'm not going to destroy it completely, but I'm going to commit a legislative crime, I admit it quite openly. The problem is that as the House comes to an end, some things really aren't able to be discussed at all. I'm not sure he'll come to a shake-up of international criminal cooperation. Maybe so, I'll make the proposal to her, eventually. But unfortunately, there is one important topic that I think needs to be resolved, and in the end, the law on the police has come to me that is unfortunately the closest thing to it. This is a topic of punishment that has been handed down in the last three quarters of the year and may yet be brought down by lower-degree courts in particular by thefts committed in an emergency period where overwrought sentences fall, because it is simply interpreted as it was originally meant that if someone plundering the territory flooded by floods or something similar or after a fire, then he should be punished in a higher way than when it is done in normal times. But unfortunately this time, as we had this whole long period of emergency, a whole lot of people fell into it who really had nothing to do with it. And if someone was stealing drapes for me, whether he's being punished with a higher sentence, but if three-year sentences are falling for a couple of buns or a vibrator or something like that, it seems a little harsh to me. [[17.10 hours]] In some discussion with the Ministry of Justice and with the Supreme Court, we have reached a possible solution that if the Minister of Justice lodges complaints for violations of the law, the Supreme Court is prepared to discuss quite quickly, but the problem today lies in the fact that the Supreme Court has to discuss complaints for violations of the law in a public hearing, and such a public hearing means that it has to be ordered, there has to be a meeting room, time and space to do so. Today, the situation is that the Supreme Court has approximately two meeting rooms and generally addresses such complaints for breaking the law every year up to hundreds. It can be assumed that there are many hundreds of excessive sentences, some estimates say up to 1,500. That is why - and I am reading on this bill - an adjustment which, by the way, has already been agreed in criminal commissions and for the next criminal order and should not cause any major complications across the professional public that complaints for violations, if granted, can be made in private proceedings and will only be posted on the official record of the court. This would significantly simplify the situation to the Supreme Court and allow it to be able to decide these things in real time in a relatively short time. And let's not forget that a number of people who have been convicted by this - I don't want to say - unfair, but at least not quite right to them in the way they spend time in those prisons. It's not that we're going to review - and we're going to review maybe two, three years from now - some sort of more or less a positive verdict or something that doesn't immediately affect this person, but that we're going to review the situation of people sitting in prison. That is why I dare - and I know that the Minister will be a little angry with me, and I admit frankly that this is an sticker, but I think that coming from a post-covide situation, and that is why there might be some kind of understanding for him - to present a amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is exactly what I was describing right now, should be addressed. If it gets to the press of 963, which is international criminal cooperation, I'll bring it to him too, then we could decide which one is more or less suitable for, but here I was sure the Home Secretary would push the law through the police. That's why I allowed myself to add this proposal to this, and I think it has something to do with the fact that it has something to do with both the police and the fact that we're in some kind of post-covid situation. I didn't feel like sticking it to banks or anything like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u7	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček came forward in the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u8	Thank you. Just a note. I understand your colleague Benda's motivation, I understand that this is a problem. I am just pointing out that, as the practice in the Senate is established, I am almost 100% certain that, even if such a proposal is approved, it was a reason for the Senate to return it to us, which could jeopardise the validity of this law, and I would not like it to continue because of a well-intentioned change, however complicated, that foreign drivers are now laughing at our police officers and throwing fines at them. So I would like to speak to Mr Benda - we have until the third reading - to consider whether it is really necessary to put it there, or to try to find an agreement with the Senate that, if it passes, this amendment will not be a reason to return this press back to the House. That's a request from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u9	Thank you, Minister. Who else in the general debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Final words - not interested. We can open the debate in detail, which I am initiating. I recall that the amendments, but also other proposals tabled in a detailed debate, must be justified. The first enrollment is, as he announced, Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore subscribe to House document 8636, which is exactly what I described in the general debate. I promise the Minister that I will try to use my, say, warmer relationship with a number of senators, because I have been there for many years in different positions, and to try and convince them and possibly involve the representatives of the Supreme Court to convince them that this is a matter that is necessary and useful and comes from the situation that has arisen today, that it is not something that we suddenly invented and suddenly need to deal with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-015-036.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. I'm asking, who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. There was no proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee to renegotiate or to shorten the deadline for third reading so that the guarantee committee would not deal with the law. If there is no interest in the final words, I can end the second reading. There is no interest, I end second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 36. The next item is the item number
