ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-000-000.u1	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue today's sitting day. Dear members of the government, if there are any, I see Madam Secretary, so I am opening the 108th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will check you all out first and ask you to re-subscribe with your identification cards. Mr Holomčík will vote with replacement card number 15. In addition, the following apologies were received: Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologises to us from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Minister Maláčová apologizes to us from today's working day, Minister Toman apologises to us from today's meeting of 107 and 108 for reasons of work. Mr Bauer apologizes for today's plenary session, I presume for all three meetings, for working reasons, Mr Bžoch apologizes for today's work reasons, Mr Dvořák apologizes for the beginning to the end of the day due to illness, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková apologises for the 107th meeting for work reasons, Mr Jáč apologizes from 15 hours for family reasons, Mrs Kozlová apologizes for today's entire meeting because of illness, Mrs Pastuchová apologises for today's whole day for family reasons, Mr Pražák apologises for today's working day, Mr Stanjura apologises for 108 hours for working reasons, Mr Tureček apologises for family reasons, for the whole of the day, Mr Vácha apologises for personal reasons, and Mr Grospič apologizes for the 107th meeting from 9 hours for the reasons of railway complications. Those were note cards. The replacement cards and their numbers will be used from the 107th meeting as well as note cards that have already been made at 107. the meeting and would cover this time, so continue to apply. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 43 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, June 2nd of this year. We will now proceed to the designation of the meeting verifiers. I propose that we appoint a Member, Kateřina Valachová, and a Member, Jaroslav Holík. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. I suggested a verifier, unless someone else has a proposal, we will vote. I don't see another suggestion. I therefore initiate the vote on the designation of verifiers. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 1, 133 Members and Members of Parliament, for 126, versus 2. I note that we have designated the verifiers for this meeting Ms Valachová and Mr Holík. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 108th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 The Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. If no one reports with priority rights, we will now vote on the whole proposal for the 108th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote number two. I'm asking, who's in favour of the proposed agenda for this meeting? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 2, 137 Members and Members of Parliament, for 122, versus 4. I note that the draft agenda has been approved. And so we will now proceed to a single point of procedure, and this point is called
