ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u1	543. Government bill on special voting methods in elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2021 and on amendment of certain laws /German press 1242/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing it, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening up a debate, nobody's checking in. So if no one signs up for the debate, I will end the debate and proceed to the vote. [[11.20 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on special voting methods in elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2021 and on the amendment of certain laws, the House's press 1242, in a shortened hearing'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 449, registered by 119 Members, for 100, against 5. The motion for a resolution has been approved. And now, with priority rights, the vice-chairman of the ANO Roman Kubíček movement wants to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I would like to propose a reduction in the debate in detail and in the general debate for twice 15 minutes for one Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u3	So here is the proposal to limit the debate within this point to twice 15 minutes. We will take the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 450, registered by 118 Members, for 70, against 16. The motion was accepted. I am now opening a government bill on special voting methods in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2021 and on the amendment of certain laws, House press 1242, shortened negotiations. The submitted proposal will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to introduce the Government's bill on special voting methods in elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2021 and on the amendment of certain laws. Under applicable electoral laws, quarantine or isolation are an obstacle to the exercise of the right to vote. Therefore, persons in quarantine or isolation are not entitled to vote. This bill is intended to allow the vote in the autumn elections to the Chamber of Deputies to persons who are under quarantine or isolation in order to protect public health against COVID-19 diseases. Voters, therefore, will only be able to use special voting methods, namely voting at the polling post, that is, the so-called electoral drive-in, voting at the residence facility that has been closed, and voting in the special portable ballot box. This proposal is similar to last year's law, which allowed the same voting methods to be used in elections to regional councils and to the Senate. The proposed law also includes a provision that arose after consultation with individual political parties, according to which special voting methods are not applicable in the event of favourable developments in the epidemiological situation. Yesterday the bill was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee and recommended it for approval. I thank you for your attention and I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u5	The Constitutional Legal Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, has discussed and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1242/2. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Jakub Michálek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u6	Hello, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutionally-legal committee discussed the bill yesterday within the time limit set by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, was discussed in a legislative emergency. And he recommended to approve it as it was submitted. He has not recommended or approved any amendments to it. At the same time, he recommended that the debate be conducted on all parts of the proposal, i.e. at the plenary session of the Chamber of Deputies, and that the proposal be discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u7	We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. We'll vote on it. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of us having a general debate? Who's against it? Voting number 451, registered by 119 Members, for 80, against 2. The motion was accepted. I am now opening a general debate, the first to be signed by Mr Stanislav Grospič and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. I have here a point of fact with Mr František Elfmark, but maybe that was still in the vote, a misrepresentation? [[Member Elfmark doesn't want to get off.]] Then I'll cross out Mr. Elfmark. And please, Mr. Stanislav Grospič. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me a few words on the bill that we have before us and are to approve today and which is the amendment to the draft law on elections to the Chamber of Deputies in the sense of the Government proposal on special voting methods in these elections and should essentially copy what we adopted last August on the occasion of the elections to regional councils and the Senate of the Czech Republic. I would like to say that there was agreement during the negotiation of this law during the working sessions, at least that's how I perceived it, across the political spectrum, that the so-called switch will be incorporated into this law, that is, if the pandemic lasts, then a certain switch will be launched and elections will run in a regime similar to that of the regional councils and the Senate. If this pandemic is not, the elections will run normally, according to the classic Act on Elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and a group of people will not be included here and some inequality will be introduced in electoral law among citizens of the Czech Republic. I would like to state here for KSČM and for myself that the proposed draft is a big problem for us and that we will not support it especially because of the paragraph, the wording of Section 3. It should be noted that the so-called pandemic law, which passed the votes of many members of this Honorable Chamber, not the votes of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, was sent in the Collection of Laws on 26 February 2021 under number 94 as the Act on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of COVID-19 and on the amendment of some related laws. This law has a somewhat strangely designed effect, but the point is that the fundamental part, that is, the so-called pandemic state, ends if the Chamber of Deputies does not show the will of another, until February 28, 2022. So until then, we'll still have a so-called pandemic situation here. In that case, the request from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia was that Section 3 should be actually conceived as a switch, and not as it is written today, that it will actually be launched if, in the meantime, it is decided by the Chamber of Deputies that the pandemic situation will end, and then it will be restarted. We believe that at present this concept is incorrect, this law does not reflect basically the standard approach to electoral law and assumes that the so-called pandemic state will be declared here on a permanent basis. I just want to point out that, on average, an extraordinary election right to opt out of a car during regional elections and Senate elections to one region in the Czech Republic, I say on average, in order to make a slight difference, some 250 voters have taken advantage of each region. Let us now reconcile the situation in the autumn, when most citizens, and hopefully the pandemic situation will not return in the horrible form we experienced at the end of the summer, at the beginning of the autumn of last year or this spring months, that, on the contrary, the situation will continue to decrease almost to the values we are achieving now, then the switch in Section 3 should really be designed as a switch, but not as it says now that the special voting methods will apply if, on 15 September 2021, the state of the pandemic emergency or emergency state declared for at least part of the territory of the Czech Republic should be designed as a health hazard through the spread of COVID-19 disease. This assumes that until September 15th, there is a free disposition for the government, and the House is essentially resigning to its authority to abolish this pandemic state at any time. And I am not at all talking about the legitimacy of how individual courts decide and how the government is currently dealing with them. [[11.30 hours]] These are the basic reasons why the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia under these assumptions that the agreed wording of Section 3 was not fulfilled by the Government will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u9	Mr Lubomír Volný will now have the floor. I'll read one more apology. Member Ondřej Profant apologizes until the end of the meeting day from 11.55 for reasons of work. So, please, your 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u10	I apologize for the delay, but since a large part of my colleagues in the House are poisoned by an experimental genetic cocktail, and they could rule out aggressive and dangerous pike proteins, I'm going to beg the House's leadership from now on to disinfect the counter before every performance, because I would hate to get infected from my poisoned colleagues. Let us tell ourselves what time we are living in: the time that forces us in a state of legislative emergency to constantly adopt some interesting laws at the last minute. We're definitely not living in standard times, we're living in a time when we're being convicted, but unfortunately unpunished criminals. Criminals who, provenly according to the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Municipal Court in Prague, violated the laws of this country and abused millions of people, millions of citizens of this country who are currently entitled to claim compensation for non-property damage from the Czech Republic, because this government and this House by their decisions, whether active or passive, caused millions of people to not lead an active life as they were used to. They fell into depression because of it, they suffer from anxiety, families fell apart, thousands of people went bankrupt, many businesses were shut down, people who spent their whole lives building their dreams, lost everything, committed suicides. So, both directly and indirectly, this House, by its activity or by its passivity, and clearly, those people who do not sit behind me mostly are responsible for the lives that have been ruined. And those criminals with active responsibility are currently losing political power. They are losing political power, their preferences are falling, and there is a real risk that they will abuse their position in power resorts and regional offices to influence and forge elections in the Czech Republic according to the model that has become in the United States. What makes me think that way? There are some interesting situations that lead me to this. Firstly, there is now a legislative emergency law to be passed, which is called 'the special voting methods in elections to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament in 2021 and the amendment of certain laws'. On this issue, the opposition could have been very pleasant to the government, because the government should have assumed that such a situation would occur in the autumn, that it could occur, and in the words of its Prime Minister, who talks about the threat of the next wave in autumn this year, the Prime Minister has known about this risk for several months, but he will come up with this proposal in a state of legislative emergency, and none of the opposition political clubs will take advantage of the opportunity to give the government several well-deserved fields, political or media. Nobody's criticizing the government, the proposal goes through without a performance. Even now, we can see that only one party has understood that there is simply a trick question in that law that would, in essence, always allow the application of this law. That's one thing. The passiveness of the opposition is interesting, as if there was some really interesting agreement. Mr Babiš's statements on the new wave correspond precisely with the statement by the official representatives of the World Health Organization, who now know that the Delta variant will be rampant around the world in autumn. Then there is Mr Chvojka's statement, which said at the press conference ČSSD that a bad situation in one single district would suffice to activate this law. Today, we have learned from KSČM Members who have understood and stepped out that, in their essence, not even one county may be, because it can simply be declared automatically. We also live at a time when we just have 17 illegal government decisions here, and we all know that this criminal government is not afraid to make illegal criminal decisions because it has been confirmed several times by the former Minister of Health Arenberger. It's just illegal measures will be taken, and before the Czech justice system cancels, the situation will be over. What makes a combination of the pandemic law and this law possible if it were approved? It allows a very simple scenario. In the first round, public vigilance will be put to sleep because this government, which itself issues illegal regulations, has enabled all citizens of the Czech Republic to cheat, has allowed them to write to themselves honorary statements about infectivity, about the test lost and so on, and thanks to this, everyone gets to the swimming pool with their children, to the cinema, just where they need to go. The government did this deliberately and consciously, with people who don't want to be vaccinated, people who don't want to be tested, if they hadn't gotten to these pleasures in the summer, they would have been very angry and voted out clearly against the government. That's why the government invented this trick that will allow citizens to write whatever they want, no one will control it, it's just an honest statement, the police won't interfere, no one will investigate, and the aim is, of course, to put the public to sleep as you did today, right now, you, because it's interesting silence here. What's the second round? Well, the second round in the black scenario will be that, as the Minister of Health has already announced, I suspect Vojtěch, but it could also have been the Minister of Education, and I'm not quite sure now, after the return of the children, which is 2,800,000 children, I suspect, is to run a full PCR test. And we all know what PCR testing means here. PCR testing means that you will determine the result in advance and you will get it. It depends purely on how many repeat cycles you set if you use these PCR tests. When you want to produce a statistically epidemic and a media epidemic, you set up a higher number of repeats and you just make it because the results come out exactly the way you need them to. [[11.40 hours]] The next step will be classic, just like last year - the flu will simply cease to exist, there will cease to be angina and any, any upper respiratory disease, as well as any chronic problems, of course, will be issued as a covid or post-covide disease, as doctors will lock themselves in their offices again, ordinate remotely, and identify anyone with a temperature or cough as a covid patient. And we have a media panic here immediately. The media will talk again from morning to evening about how the variant of the delta corona kills citizens of the Czech Republic, because again the victims of road accidents as in the past will be issued as victims of covid, again the victims of heart attacks will be issued as victims of covid. I don't suppose anyone here would really think anyone would really believe that the number of heart attacks has dropped by 50 percent in a single year. I don't think anyone here would think so in this House. I also don't think anyone would think that the number of cases of oncological diseases dropped by about 50 percent. No, these guys were just listed in statistics as covid victims, and the same thing's gonna happen again. The company will be broken up by a government vaccination campaign: it will be broken up into a fan of vaccination by an unverified genetic emulsion, which even in the case of vaccines intended for children of 16 years plus according to the official material of the Ministry of Health, has no registration in the European Union. After that, illegal government measures will be issued as we are used to, because the government knows very well that it can declare anything, and the courts will decide in three, four, five, six, twelve weeks, according to which order they will be given. And the company will be divided so, because there will be a huge media epidemic, that the government regulation will sound like this: only inoculated people are allowed into electoral commissions and classic electoral districts, everyone else is considered dangerous, everyone else will be quarantined and they will have to vote on drive-ins from the car, or they will be able to invite someone with an urn. It is clear from this law that all the urns will be under the supervision of the chieftains who have also broken the law, they are also criminals, because they have caused an illegal emergency in this country, which, when the MPs of ODS and TOP 09 have voted against the emergency situation here, let us remember that their captains have triggered a new emergency situation. It's just to know what they're saying and what the reality of working with the covideo mafia is. So these captains will be in charge of maybe millions of ballots that no one else can control. And since I stood here about a year ago and warned about the covidpasses, and I was labeled at best as someone who spread misinformation and alarm messages and fake and hoaxes, so that the covidpass should be approved not only at European level, but in order to make a desperate effort to push the covidpass through at our level, I warn here that there is going to be a major election robbery in the misuse of the pandemic law and this law, which desperately needs corrupt ČSSD to stay in the House, and Andrej Babiš to have a coalition partner, because his project Šlachta is failing. To do so, stolen voices from other parties that are genuinely anti-systemic and that are really fighting against the covid mafia. In 90 percent, the votes of the Free Block, which currently, according to the information I have from the club YES from their internal survey, are to be more than 10 percent. Our actions last Wednesday before the House forced you not to acknowledge the state of legislative emergency and reach, the electronic range of this event was a million end users. And this is all that the covide mob is afraid of, which is why it wants to steal the votes of the Free Bloc in particular for the benefit of the CSSD. And, of course, we will not be passively waiting for something like this to happen, especially given the information that the stolen votes are to be distributed fairly among all the parties currently holding the club in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is why there is such consent to enforce this law. We have drawn up an amendment that I will now introduce you to and explain to you why the individual points are there and why every Democrat should vote for them because it will allow for stronger civil control, preventing the division of voters into vaccinated and unvacated and as difficult as possible to forge results. So our first point concerns the voting committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 the word "similarly" was used to apply mutatis mutandis the provisions of the electoral law governing the terms of membership of the district commission. We're changing it by cutting the word off. It won't be the same because it's too rubbery, it's too easy to exploit. I guess I'll have to wait for those three seconds? Or may I continue?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u11	Time. And since you're logged in for the second time, I'm turning on another 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u12	Thank you. So, on the terms of membership of the voting committee for representatives of political parties, political movements and coalitions, whose election list has been registered, i.e. electoral commissioners, the provisions of the electoral law apply, not similarly, but simply apply. Same for the census committee. The terms of membership of the census committee shall be subject to the provisions of the electoral law, not by analogy, but precisely, for all representatives of political parties and movements which are registered for elections. Then, in Section 7, we have a new paragraph 7 that we are inserting, which reads as follows: "The registerer of the voting commission does not have the right to report representatives of political parties, political movements and coalitions from the exercise of the electoral right of the electoral voter or restrict visual control of the ballot box or special portable mailbox." The point here is that this committee clerk is determined by the governor. It is determined by the Governor, so the Governor, who needs to hide his crime by causing an illegal emergency in this country, is very motivated to keep his party from being politically punished for his crime. And that's why you can't trust the captains, because we know what's going on with political corruption in this republic. I could, if I had more time, if you weren't scared, I could name all the corruption history in the country. So the captains don't believe, and that's why we want our deputy there - and you should want him too - who will have the right to have constant visual control of the electoral box. Again in Section 23, the word "similarly" is deleted, simply the provisions of the electoral law apply. I don't know why the "like" is there, because the only reason why it might be there is simply trying to rubberically interpret this word "similarly" when someone doesn't want to follow the law deliberately. We all know how many lawsuits end because of one single word, and when it comes to the future of the whole republic, there shouldn't be such a rubber word. [[11.50 hours]] In the second paragraph of Article 10 (2), the following definitions shall apply: 16 states: "The requirement for vaccination against COVID-19 for the participation of voters in their respective electoral districts in parliamentary elections and referendums in 2021 or in their elected districts in the event that they hold an electoral card in the parliamentary elections in 2021 is prohibited. " At the moment this amendment is not approved, it will be clear to everyone who has not been vaccinated in this country that they are being cheated, that apartheid is preparing for them, and that you are preparing for them that they will not be able to get into their polling rooms. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 17: "The requirement of vaccination against COVID-19 for participation in electoral and census committees shall be prohibited." So no one must ask a person to be nominated by a party, a movement or a coalition to oversee the outcome of the election. Once again, if this amendment is not approved, it should be clear, especially to colleagues here in the SPD and colleagues in the KSČM, and especially to those who do not intend to be vaccinated, that this is an attack on the very essence of civil control of free elections, and it is a 100% attempt at electoral fraud. Because requiring someone to undergo an invasive medical procedure whose consequences are not and cannot be known, because it is an experiment that is currently under way, it cannot be denied by any doctor or scientist present, the experiment is in experimental phase and all those who have been vaccinated are now guinea pigs and guinea pigs, so it simply is, so requiring vaccination so that a person can vote in his electoral district or become a member of the electoral commission is an unconstitutional crime and you have an obligation to assure the public that you are not planning such a thing. Then here we have a paragraph. 18: "It shall be prohibited to require any other health document to participate in their respective electoral districts or where they choose, according to their licence, a declaration of infectiveness. " We're in exactly the situation that the government has set now. I can write an honest statement, I can write it to my son, and I can go to the swimming pool, the movies, the gym, anywhere. So when the government has given us this opportunity to write down what we want to do to get where we want to go, it is our duty to demand exactly the same rules on the most fundamental democratic principle and the most fundamental democratic institute that is parliamentary elections. And again, if you refuse this, anyone who doesn't want to be vaccinated, and anyone who already knows that this government has committed crime 17 times against the constitution will know who is part of the covid mafia and who will want them to covidpas in any form, PCR test in any form, antigen test in any form, when they can now go to the swimming pool with an honest statement. "It shall be prohibited to require any other document on the state of health for participation in electoral and census committees for nominated electoral commissioners, other than an honest declaration of infectivity." Again, if you don't plan on stealing elections, if you don't plan to split the company into two or three groups, and if you want to ensure a sense of peace and security for voters who don't want to be afraid for another four months, if Volný is right again, just as he's practically always been, then there should be no problem approving this so that the people who are applying to the electoral committees know that they'll be enough to make an honest statement to become members of that electoral commission. And 20 and 21: "It is not the duty of the President of the Election and Computing Commissions to require the representatives of the political parties to make this solemn declaration of infectivity." There's no obligation. There's no obligation! This guy's just gonna have it with him or he's not. Once every four years, parliamentary elections are, and in any way, restricting the choice of healthy people is simply unconstitutional, and it is a crime. And 21: "It is not the duty of the chairman of the census and electoral commission to demand from voters their solemn declaration of infectivity." Again, it's not an obligation. It's not an obligation! If any committee requires this, these people will write it down on the spot, hand it over and it'll be quiet. It will be similar to when I went from Ostrava to Prague today and I was greeted at an unnamed petrol station by ladies who were topless and had a very nice look on their faces, smiled, looked me in the eye, photographed with me, because they just don't wear drapes at work because they know that the government has issued so many anti-constitutional illegal regulations that no one currently knows what the real legal situation is and what the situation in this country is. Again, this government and this House have proven by their passivity that the whole Republic has lived in a situation for a whole year really very, very unusual and very bad, which has caused thousands of people to die outside of covid because they have not taken the situation, they have not taken the loss of an active way of life, they have not borne the fact that they have not been able to meet their children, they have not been given medical care and they have failed. Thousands of people, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, went bankrupt in this country and in a large part of society, one that is simply not inclined to experiment with its health through some gene therapy, are growing tension. People are nervous that the covide mafia, whose existence there is no doubt when respirators are bought here for 700 crowns. reject Czech PCR tests for 50 crowns and instead buy four or five times more expensive Chinese antigen tests without any test, i.e. dangerous, which children must then use by force in our schools, so, of course, this part of the public who collects critical information not only does not trust the government, but will not trust either of you who will not support these amendments, which provide one single one, and that the elections will be transparent and clean. Then there's another thing. As we said, the master of the boxes will be the captain, and that is why we have included in the title 6 in Section 22 para. 4: "The Regional Authority will ensure continuous, publicly available online monitoring of electoral boxes after receiving all ballot boxes intended for a special method of voting in the electoral region for safekeeping, and will allow representatives of political parties, political movements and coalitions..." so, so, so... "physical presence at the safe house of the electoral boxes under police supervision and will allow monitoring of their own devices enabling online transmission." We live in the 21st century. We all know why the electoral commission was formed, because the urge to rob the competition of its votes and to attribute those votes to itself has always been representative or direct democracy since the beginning. Let's not kid ourselves that those committees were created for any other reason. They were created because politicians always stole votes and always influenced elections when they had the slightest opportunity. We live in the 21st century, the presence of police and the presence of a camera with an online transmission is nothing abnormal, there is nothing special, it is simply a perfectly normal phenomenon, especially at a time when billions of shops are closed on the phone and online, decisions are made on the European Union's budget, international summits are held. So having the opportunity to point your cell phone and broadcast online on Facebook, if the urn is okay when I just go to the bathroom or not, is a thing that shouldn't surprise anyone. And the fact that the Regional Authority should ensure similar security measures in its own confidence in the case that there may be up to millions of votes in those boxes is a legitimate requirement that I really do not understand who will mind. [[12.00 hours]] And then there's another paragraph. 5: "The room in which all voting boxes intended for a special method of voting are stored must allow Internet connection through mobile operators' data services. " It's just so it doesn't occur to those criminals who are now sitting in the position of the governor and who illegally placed an emergency on this country to put the box somewhere in the basement where this public control of political party representatives and movements wouldn't be possible. So I don't trust this government because this government has broken the law at least 17 times. I don't trust the captains, because at least once the government helped you break these laws. I believe in the power of people who are active. I believe in the strength of civil society for those people who want to participate in the control of these elections. And I am asking you to send out two signals to the citizens of this country: firstly, that you will not distribute them into vaccinated and unvaccuated, and secondly, that even in the event of an epidemic, whether it is media or real, you will allow factual, hard-to-read control of their electoral votes. Well, at the last minute and a half, I would like to appeal to the KSČM Members and to the SPD Members that about 3,000 people are currently watching this live stream and that they will carefully monitor not only your choice in these -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u13	Time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u14	I've got one-fourteen here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u15	The counter that shows me shows that time has passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u16	I still have 1:08, 1:06, 05...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u17	Wait a minute, Mr. Ambassador, because I'm gonna ask the House to technically sort this out, because time has passed on my screen. But with you, the time is really running out that you have one more minute. Well, we gotta figure this out. I'm gonna put out a three-minute break, and I'd ask the techs in the House to clarify which one of those times is right. Because it doesn't specifically concern you, but it doesn't involve any time in other performances. I've already warned this morning, as you know, we're running out of time here for another minute, which is on the board and which is real. I mean the clock. So I'm gonna put out three minutes, and I'm gonna ask you for information on what's going on with the time. I'll meet you at 12.06. It doesn't concern you personally. It's just, if you're really right about your screen, I can see it from here, it's been a minute, but my time has passed. So please clarify the situation. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.03 to 12.06 hours.]] Time's straightened out, and you've got one more minute from what's been checked out. So your house screen was running right downstairs, so it was wrong for me. So I'm gonna stop you for a minute and please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u18	So I will return to that warning for KSČM Members and for SPD Members to realise that if these amendments are not approved, we inform all those people who are connected to our information channels that you have had the opportunity to prevent this law from being discussed, because, as the President said last time, together you have four priority rights when the President leaves, the Vice-President has priority rights and so on, in essence, you have up to eight of them. You can successfully block the House, as the pirát and others did yesterday and the day before yesterday, and you can achieve that this dangerous law, which is dangerous, and the Communists themselves have said, will not be approved. All you have to do is ask. Well, we're gonna tell your constituents, and they're gonna decide what they're gonna do with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u19	Mr Stanislav Juránek will now make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u20	I'm only allowed to do business. It's not possible to bend the electoral law as it is, and I'm only going to point out one thing. The Governor has no authority whatsoever in the electoral law and cannot influence anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u21	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u22	Mr. Colleague, are you vaccinated? [[Member of the Juranek Hall: I am not!]] Okay, well, I don't need to disinfect it. Well, it's not true because, or respectively. It's true from a legislative point of view, but the law clearly states that the governor determines the three people in those commissions and the urns will be kept where the governor decides. We all know that the captains in the past have committed crimes in the Czech Republic. Some are on the run, some are in prison, and according to the precautionary principle, and according to how we know the state of corruption, YES is an anti-corruption movement, and yet they are not fighting against something that does not exist here. And I'm sure you're also anti-corruption, and I'm sure you're not fighting something that doesn't exist. So you know there's corruption here. There are all kinds of corruption. He's corrupting with money, favors, maybe sex was corrupted in TOP 09, because that's where the ladies had a faster career when they agreed with Mr. Feri and his offers. So that's it. In the Czech Republic, politics is not the business of the kind and kind. On the contrary, very often it's the business of criminals. Like I said, if I were to read here a list of all those convicted and convicted or on the run, we'd be here for quite a long time. And you all know it. [[12.10 hours]] So I don't trust these captains to choose the con men who want to make a career in the county office under that captain to those committees. Of course they will. That's just the precautionary principle. And I don't believe that in the county office, where such a criminal governor rules, even the mailboxes will be safe - they won't be. Those boxes must be under continuous civil and technological supervision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u23	Mr Marian Bojko will now speak, so far the last application to the general debate. You have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, when I read the various violations of the government, which issued illegal regulations and various decrees and so on, in about seventeen cases it was swept away by the Supreme Constitutional Court or administrative court, so I came across something I had not yet registered, and this is the Czech Government Resolution of 26 February 2021 number 215, on securing and organising the separation of space with bed capacity for isolation of people who have been exposed to Coronavirus disease. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, declared an emergency situation for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus, referred to as SARS CoV-2, in the territory of the Czech Republic, pursuant to § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Law No 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management and Amendment of Certain Acts, Crisis Act, as amended '1. to the regional authorities and the mayor of the capital city of Prague (a) set up or set up, with effect from 27 February 2021, adequate personnel security in the territory of each region and capital city of Prague, premises with bed capacity for isolation of persons who have been found to have a Coronavirus known as SARS CoV-2 and whose medical condition does not require the provision of medical care..' I'm really interested in this first paragraph. What was to be established in every region and in Prague some large-capacity facilities for... Sounds more like an internment camp to me. I don't get it - to set up something where people don't need medical attention, can they be treated at home in quarantine? "... at least 80 beds per 550 000 inhabitants of the region or capital city of Prague and over 550 000 inhabitants of another 80 beds. In the event of a change in the epidemiological situation, be prepared to increase this capacity to 200 beds, within 7 days of the date of the Ministry of Health's instruction, and ensure that these premises are clearly marked, b) inform the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the provision of the objects referred to in point 1a of this resolution and of their overall capacity, c) keep the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs informed of the occupancy of the objects referred to in point 1a of this resolution; 2. the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister of Health and the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior inform and methodically lead the regions and the capital of Prague in the process of allocating the bed capacity referred to in point 1a of this resolution. They will perform: First Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister of Health, Regional Governor and Mayor of the Capital City of Prague. Signed . Andrej Babiš, . ." I was just wondering if these centers were really set up and if any capacity was filled, if anybody ever stayed there? Because I really don't understand what this was set up for when those people didn't need medical attention? Was that some kind of homeless hostel or...? I don't get it. So I'm skeptical really to the government's orders and to the decrees that are constantly being swept off the table, that they're unconstitutional and illegal. That's why I'm as careful as my colleague Lubomír Volný to do what's supposed to happen in the election. That is why I say that our amendment, which clearly defines that no one who goes to vote should be discriminated against, that he has not been vaccinated or tested - no one has the right to require a medical condition from him. Any normal Member who works for the well-being of his own citizen should agree to this and vote in favour, and if not, he is a traitor and a traitor to the citizens. Ms. Jana Zwyrtek Hamplová wrote it beautifully on her blog today. I would like to read her blog today because it is amazing and I totally agree with him: "The law is brutally raped. One illegal government measure takes turns the other. Lawyers cross, people confused and tired of watching. Ex post learns that they were forced to respect illegal orders and bans. The Court of First Instance is abolishing measures one by one, until we are unable to find any way to do so. However, the new ones are jumping right away. Europe's politicians order separations to laugh at us outside theatrical poses in front of cameras in subsequent mutual hugs. The Dictionary issued by the Ministry of Health is so tragic that it has to put a lot of work into those crazy lyrics full of nonsense at all, not to say follow them. Every citizen's health has become completely unconstitutional and public. GDPR doesn't suddenly apply. People are asked about things that no one has the right to ask, and in employment and elsewhere they are put to illegal conditions. Elsewhere unacceptable segregation of people according to health status becomes a common standard - here even on the basis of hypotheses, i.e. the assumption of a potential disease. The government rules hard information censorship and the patent on alleged truth insures itself with paid and false advertising. The vaccination is not a dot behind the covid. Toughly "voluntary" is a form of incredible extortion, when threats become crawling mandatory, otherwise it is said that man will not be considered equal and will be forbidden to enter, however healthy he is. The age limits of parental responsibility are falling and education for healthy children, whose parents protect them from respiratory restrictions and senseless multiple tests. The state did not even take into account the warning of experts that refusing to breathe and subject them to multiple tests harms their health. The legality of testing in schools has passed only because children allegedly "voluntarily" do it themselves, because teachers can't really command them, as lawyers say from the beginning, and they can't do it at all. But the state threw black Petr at the schools, and the teachers surprisingly took him on. For a number of months, general health care has been counter-constitutionally restricted and postponed as if there was a single diagnosis. The anticovid drugs were indefensibly locked up in warehouses or nowhere, and the suspicion of covid was not treated - only so much that it often ended with neglected pneumonia and severe conditions. Doctors with opinions other than those supporting the general health business with tests and vaccines have been silenced or labeled as disinformers. The normal life of all of us has been and continues to be subject to indefensible conditions in the rule of law that divide people into different castes, so that, for example, at public events, they must wear tapes with information about their health. All of this in a situation where the numbers relating to the covid have never reached even the values of the epidemic, and today they are even far beyond the limits of discernment. But they have a PR they never dreamed of. The pandemic law continues to apply to us, although the conditions of its application no longer exist objectively, that is to say a long time ago the pandemic emergency should have been abolished. It didn't, and so the state of the pandemic emergency is being maintained artificially without the pandemic, because politicians liked to lead us like puppets with all these illegal measures. And it's working for them. And what's the most brutal thing about the rule of law falling under our hands? That in this game of all-powerful highness politicians are visibly found and enjoying it full of sips and people respect it all obediently and silently, while they should be long ago in the streets and authors of these illegal orders and bans and abuse of the law to wipe out their seats of civil disobedience. Because this is no longer about our health, but about privatizing the rule of law by a group of power and money greedy, and about the targeted segregation of people who are very good at modern highness because they divide civil society and thus weaken. Nothing is worse for politicians than a united people in the streets, so why don't we split people up? [[12.20 hours]] In short, briefly and clearly: the treatment of our rights is scandalous. Instead of building allies in us at a difficult time, the government is making us subject and invoking situations for people to go against each other senselessly. I know exactly what would happen to the management of municipalities and cities if, after the x-th time, they issued a generally binding decree, which would be illegal repeatedly abolished by the courts. I know exactly how mayors would turn out if they banned fireworks from their citizens and played them cheerfully in their own gardens. I know exactly what would happen to representatives if they lied to their citizens about the epidemic and interrupted their public life just because ten people in a thousand would have dysentery. In short, we wouldn't forgive our town hall for a tenth of all this. Then why do we forgive the government and the MPs? I see only one solution after careful consideration. In a situation where illegal ex post measures are repealed, so that the government immediately issues other, also illegal, because it does not respect the views of the court, which, by the way, is also a highly dangerous totalitarian manner, it is necessary to sue all the measures currently in force, even those planned from 1. 7. for one reason: the situation envisaged by the pandemic law is not fulfilled here; its application is therefore a clear abuse of the law, which has a very specific role, and because neither the government nor the House has abolished the pandemic emergency, it is up to the court to abolish all measures that refer to the non-existent pandemic situation, as well as to the wording of the pandemic law, which are not already fulfilled. It is as if flood measures continue to apply when the water falls. But the equation of considering that measures corresponding to pandemic alert cannot be applied under the pandemic law, when there is no pandemic or epidemiological situation long ago, is so clear that replacing the inactivity of politicians by abolishing all current measures by the court is probably the only possible solution. And that the Supreme Administrative Court is not afraid of clear decisions, we already know that, and thank you for that. It's the last insurance policy of the rule of law that's dying on the air right now, and we're helpless spectators. Measures shall be taken if there is a reason. If the reason has passed, the measures cannot be used to this extent. And if politicians do not know that a pandemic law cannot be applied without a pandemic, someone should strongly tell them. And the fact that we, in our own interests, will still be careful and considerate of all that can be taken care of, because we simply do not want to be sick ourselves, and that does not need to be reminded of. That is why we do not suddenly have to be unjust serfs of modern highness. I simply suggest that the measures be abolished by them also across the board, for a clear and objective reason, which they completely ignore." So I chose the article because it's completely consistent with how I feel or Lubomír Volný. It's described exactly there. The Minister, I believe, yesterday in the House, has already warned here about the abolition of the pandemic emergency, because the Delta variant may be rushing at us, in England the Coronavirus is attacking children between the ages of 7 and 11, of course, because others are already being severely vaccinated. So here we are, I don't know if I've read it from that, maybe one patient on a covid bed in an ICU at eight hospitals, but we have a lot of things that are limited and conditional on some guises or respirators and so on and so forth, limiting numbers. There is simply no reason - there is no reason to limit citizens in any way, because the situation is no longer in the wrong numbers. So for me, clearly - I am still saying, I appeal to you, colleagues, at least support our amendment, because it clearly defines that no one restricts anyone in the elections and has no right to ask him about any medical condition. And if you're gonna make that happen, that's what it's gonna be. I am absolutely convinced that what we have always said here has come true. And of course, the wave will come because you will create the numbers and somehow the elections will be manipulated to the benefit of the strong parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u25	Mr Pavel Plzák will now make a point of fact and then Marek Benda is entered into the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u26	Good morning, colleagues, members of the government. I listened carefully to the previous speaker and confess I'm confused. I would like to ask him, through Mr President, if he would tell me which part of the speech we are discussing, and that is the name of the Government's bill on special voting methods in the Chamber of Deputies, and if he says so on the live transmission, because either I am confused or my colleague is confused, don't be mad at me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u27	He's getting off now... Now a point of fact - Mr Marian Bojko. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to see my colleague Plzák. It is my answer: because I do not trust this government, I do not trust you, Members of Government, which is why I have to say it live here, because we, as Members, Lubomír Volný and I, are censored everywhere. No one's gonna know the essential information, and this is where they're gonna find out. I don't believe you, I don't trust your government, and I'm sure you're going to make a major hit when it comes to elections! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u29	Mr Marek Benda will now come forward, so far the last application for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u30	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after these militant speeches against the law, I am going to say that we will support the bill. I don't think it's supposed to continue to be pandemic. We're going to propose abolishment of pandemic status. It could have been at the next point that he probably won't get to today, but we'll undoubtedly propose it at the beginning of July. I don't think we're in any situation where, at 100 infected people a day, we need to have a pandemic emergency here, and we're supposed to spend our holidays in peace without this condition, but the law is just preparing for a situation if there's any dramatic deterioration in the course of September. I agree with him in this regard. I think it's better that we know before we leave for the holidays that if the situation were to deteriorate dramatically, we have the same solution that was used last year in the regional elections. So I will propose the abolition of the pandemic state, at the same time I support this bill in the event of a crisis that could potentially occur when we see what is happening in some and European countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u31	Now a factual point, Mr Lubomír Volný. I'll read two apologies in the meantime. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes from the House today 17. 6. from the afternoon meeting for working reasons and Mr Lipavský apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. [[Dissipation of the rhetorical counter and microphones is in progress.]] Thank you. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u32	I am not surprised by the ODS and TOP 09 Members that they will support this law here, because, of course, they are members of the Covido Mafia. Because if they didn't want there to be illegal emergency situations, they could stop the emergency situations at any time, just like they've stopped the Czech Television Council's election several times now. The emergency conditions in the Czech Republic may not have been since last autumn, because they needed the approval of the House, and you have allowed this consent by not doing what you do when you do not want the Czech Television Council to be elected. So I'm not surprised by your attitude, you're looking forward to the votes of the Free Bloc that you'll find a proportional part of the dandruff. What's more shocking is that you're talking about the House being psychic. Well, the House is not probative or prudent, not probative, therefore, because we are discussing this in a state of legislative emergency. [[With a smile.]] If we were prudent, we knew a year ago or a year and a half ago that there was always an increase in respiratory diseases in the fall and that there was a chance that covid could come back in the fall. But you here, in a state of legislative emergency, would be happy to pass a law within five minutes that, in combination with other illegal government measures, allows electoral fraud. There's just a loophole. When the government gives an illegal regulation that only vaccines can vote and only vaccines can go to the committees and that corrupt officials will oversee the urns of all others, there is a large window, a high probability of electoral fraud, especially in the parties, government parties that are currently outside the House. Stop it, your constituents won't like it otherwise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u33	Time. Jakub Michálek, Chairman of the Pirates Club, will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to, uh, hold it to some level, the act? I don't think these personal attacks are appropriate at all, and the comments that have been made here are offensive to our colleagues. I am defending myself against them, and I wanted to ask if the President could call the speakers to the point and order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u35	Now I'll read the apology. From 13 o'clock to the rest of the day, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Lubomír Volný, on the point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u36	Through Mr President, here to the speaker: from the pirát to listen to some accusations that we are indecently attacking someone here, it is really comical, because you have been doing nothing else here for almost three quarters of a year. You are here systematically accusing your opponents of fraud, you are systematically blocking the House because you do not want to elect the Czech Television Council, you are constantly building it, it is your democratic right. But it needs to be told to your constituents that if you didn't want to have extended emergency states, those states are never extended, because the mere power of your club, and how well, and I acknowledge it, how well you have divided the priority rights, that means that you automatically have three priority rights plus those of other Vice-Presidents, gives you such strength, and even you have such capable Members who have been able to speak for a very long time, gives you such strength that if you yourself wanted to block the House so that it wouldn't be approved to extend the emergency situation, and we all know that the government wouldn't be able to approve another one after that, because it would be directly unconstitutional, so you had the power, you didn't, and you're involved in all the crimes that happened here in the context of the emergency situation, and it's crimes. Thousands of middle-sized small businessmen have gone bankrupt, we have increased the number of suicides, people are depressed, they're anxious because there was an illegal emergency government that you didn't stop, and now, thanks to your vote, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but I'm just about 93.7 percent sure, you voted in favour of the pandemic law. So everything that's happening now under the pandemic law falls on a pirate's head, and you can demand any decent manners you want here, in the moment, when you do the typical pirate insolence again, I'll be happy to remind you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u37	Now, shall I look around to see if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? I see no one, so I end the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final words - the Minister, the rapporteur? You don't have an interest. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled... [[Member Michálek is reporting for the floor.]] So please, with priority rights - yes, I have already opened up a detailed debate. I merely remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Member Jakub Michálek asked for the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not really respond to the invectives that are being heard here, there is no point in feeding someone. I refer to the amendment, House document 8663, which introduces a correspondence choice. This is an amendment tabled by a fellow Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal. The amendment gives citizens of the Czech Republic, our countrymen abroad the right to vote by means of a correspondence election, as is standard in a number of Western states, as is included by the government in its programming declaration. I think that the situation in the autumn can be very unpredictable in different countries abroad, where the outbreak of pandemic situations may be, and that it is not fair for us to demand that our fellow countrymen threaten their health and safety by traveling to many hundred kilometres away representative offices to exercise their right to vote in person. So that's why the correspondence choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u39	Mr Lubomír Volný has the floor now. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u40	So thank you, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, once again. Actually, I forgot, Mr. Michálek is also a threat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u41	[[The President responds to noise caused by mic wipers.]] I'll turn it off, the microphone. All right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u42	It's done, I hope. So I also claim to be my colleague, Marian Bojek, on behalf of Members of the Free bloc, to the amendments that are all mentioned under 8662, and I would like to justify one more thing. I would also like to ask all colleagues who criticize us for not wearing drapes to put on their drapes and respirators properly. This government and the House have passed a pandemic law that allows for the current situation and further declaration of unconstitutional regulations. It's just that the pandemic law makes it possible, and we live in a constant merry-go-round of declaring an illegal regulation that is required of citizens, sometimes even using coercive means to abolish it. We've put ourselves in a completely catastrophic situation, like invading police officers, because police officers, at least in April, physically intervened with coercive measures against people who refused to legitimize them, because those policemen suspected them of committing an offence against a government order. But that government order was invalid at the time of its announcement. That's just the way it is, it was zero. It was against the law at the time of its announcement. So those poor police officers who enforced them, and maybe using coercive means to force someone to give them their identity, they could commit a crime of abuse of authority by a public official. They did it with goodwill, but unfortunately, they're the last ones in that chain of command. They just violated the man's rights because he didn't violate any orders, he didn't commit any offenses, and those cops had no right to legitimize him. That's just the way it is. [[12.40 hours]] And even worse is the situation in schools. This is a government regulation - including Members who are not constantly wearing a proper mask and neither a respirator, and probably not putting it right, the mask or the respirator, because hypocritically they will criticize everyone who is free to do their will, but they themselves will break their own regulations - so in an even worse situation, the government and those who have not prevented it, that is, the so-called opposition. What did you call up in education? Schools were illegally closed in education. You took the children's constitutional right to education, and you, as government MPs, and the government, will not be responsible for that. The school directors may be responsible for this. Then you forced teachers to oversee testing children with dangerous tests. Dangerous tests you don't know who made them, what he made them from, when he brought them in, how he made them. You don't know anything about them. No one in the government, no ministerial official, looked at the factory where they were made, checked the technological process, issued any certificates. You brought something that could actually have been produced somewhere in Bangladesh by disinfection with carcinogenic substances and forced 2,800,000 pupils to use it. And all of these atrocities happened here on the basis of the pandemic law you approved. That covid, that's terrible, isn't it, colleague? [[He responds to a member of Jan Volný who coughs.]] So that's it. And now the combination of the pandemic law -- a moment more -- this government and the House would approve covidpasses without the pressure of the Free Block. You'd just approve! The only reason the covidpasses aren't approved is because in our political struggle between the Free Block and the SPD, we forced the SPD to publicly say that it would block the House, which it has never done before. It didn't do it in emergency situations, nor in pandemic law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u43	I am merely quoting Section 94: "During a detailed debate, amendments or other proposals shall be submitted to the bill." The amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must also be justified. Therefore, even if you know that I have never interrupted you, and I have given you the maximum possible freedom here, even though other colleagues have told or objected to me, you really should justify your amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u44	Well, I am trying to justify it, Mr President, by the fact that there is a non-standard situation in this country, we are ruled by a government that flagrantly and systematically violates the Constitution and laws of this country, and this law, as proposed, allows electoral fraud. Because if our amendments are not adopted, it may be that the government will declare illegal measures in the sense that only vaccines can be in electoral committees and only vaccines can vote in ordinary electoral districts. He's gonna cause media hysteria. It's probably already planned because we're planning to test PCR tests of 2,800,000 children in this country, and we all know that using PCR tests you can produce the result you want - you can stop the epidemic and you can invent the epidemic. Then it will also be enough for the municipal doctors to lock themselves back in their offices, not to rule out and just declare any virosis, cold or anything for covid and we already have media hysteria again, and if half of the people are vaccinated, and the other one is not, I can imagine completely calmly that the vaccinated ones will hate the unvacated ones and they will be glad that they can't go into the regular polling rooms, because the hatred is already growing. It is visible on social networks and can be seen in individual situations. And because there has never been any political force here in the House - neither the SPD nor the KSČM - that would have fought against government regulations in the past so that it would block the House, and it has never done the way that the members of the so-called democratic bloc did when they didn't want the Czech Television Council to go through the election, and all of a sudden everyone remembered that they could take up to 12 hours of breaks and they could reconstruct what they wanted. We therefore propose these amendments. Just the terms of membership of the census committee for representatives of political parties, political movements and coalitions, and so on, are not applied "similarly" - this is crossed out, but the provisions of the electoral law governing the terms of membership of the district electoral commission apply. So not "similarly," because this is exactly what the governor determines. He's gonna designate three people according to the bill that's in there. So to the governor - and every captain here is responsible for at least one illegal measure of government, every one of the officers of the ODS, TOP 09, from the other parties is connected to at least one violation of the law. So I don't believe that these captains won't want to live up to their social and political responsibilities if they have such a great power to determine the composition of these commissions, and they'll just and only keep an eye on what's in those urns. The same provision, Title 1 of Section 7 is amended by the fact that the registrar of the voting committee does not have the right to report representatives of political parties and so on, political movements... from the exercise of the electoral right of the electoral voter or restricting visual inspection of the electoral box or special portable mailbox. Because the commission's clerk is otherwise entitled to banish anyone from the place of election. And because he is a man appointed by a criminal governor - because there is no other than a criminal governor in the Czech Republic at present - it is necessary that people nominated by the Free Block cannot be legally banished by this writer and that these boxes are constantly under visual control. And you should all wish it, just so that there can be no fraud. You don't want fraud. Title 6 of Section 22 is amended as follows: paragraph 4 is added. "Because we live in the 21st century -" and I think it should be very much enjoyed by the pirát, for example - that "the regional authority will ensure continuous publicly available online monitoring of electoral boxes after receiving all the ballot boxes intended for a special method of voting in the electoral region for safekeeping, and will allow representatives of political parties, movements, coalitions, and so on and so on... physical presence at the safe house of the electoral boxes under police supervision." I don't know who here might object to anything that a police officer will actively guard the ballot box and watch those political party agents and allow monitoring of his own devices to enable online transmission. Perfect, modern, perfect. I believe the pirát will support this, including paragraph 1. 5 which is inserted: "The room in which all voting boxes intended for a special method of voting are stored by the decision of the Regional Authority shall allow for Internet connection through the data services of mobile operators'. That's the insurance policy to make sure that the governor, who was willing to break the law at least once in the past, didn't have time to put it in a basement or a nuclear shelter where the civil control couldn't take place. I also have absolutely no idea who should mind this and why it should be wrong if it's in the law. Then again, the word "similarly" is cut, and we've already explained that. There's just no reason for there to be a "like" word. It's just supposed to go with the electoral law. When someone wants the word "similarly" there, they simply prepare the donkey bridge to pass the law because they say, "Yes, it wasn't exactly according to the electoral law, but it was similar." And then: nobody here, not even you vaccinated - you all said so a thousand times - you don't want to live in a divided society where people have different rights according to - not according to their health condition, not according to whether the person is healthy or sick - but depending on whether he has undergone any medical procedure. Imagine the next thing you're gonna need an appendicitis. Whoever doesn't have an appendix can't go to the pool... or who doesn't have an operation can't go to the pool. The next will be vaccination, because somewhere there will just be an epidemic of jaundice, so we will all have to vaccine ourselves for jaundice, so that multinational companies that have now made tens of percent extra, hundreds of billions, so that they have even higher profits. You don't want that, neither of you want it. You said repeatedly you didn't want it, I believe you. Convince your constituents about this, and please vote in favour of the amendment to Title 10, Section 28, where paragraph 16 is inserted: "No vaccination requirement against COVID-19 for the participation of voters in their respective electoral districts in the parliamentary elections and referendums in 2021 or in other elected districts in the event that they hold a electoral card in the parliamentary elections in 2021'. [[12.50 hours]] Next: "The requirement for vaccination against COVID-19 for participation in electoral and census committees is prohibited." Again, you don't want people who just don't believe this experimental gene therapy, you call it what you want to do, but here's just half of the nation that thinks it's experimental gene therapy. They do not want to submit to it, but they also want to oversee the festival of democracy, which is a secret parliamentary election. You don't want to take away their right to keep an eye on the fair course of the election, just because the government will issue another illegal regulation. Or, you opposition Members, do you know that the government will not issue any further illegal measures? Or are you sure the cops won't enforce any more illegal government measures, just like they're not extorting about three or four last ones now? The cops ignore them, they don't enforce them because they know they're illegal. But will they have the same courage in the case of elections? And what will they do about the conflict if someone without a covidpass and without a vaccination certificate comes to his electoral precinct and demands their right to vote? How will they react? Will he force the electoral committee to accept his vote? That's gonna mean using law enforcement. Or will they take out the person who won't be vaccinated? There's no way you can do that without using coercive means. So how many cops are you going to put at risk of being accused of committing a criminal abuse of authority by a public official? You win, I win. Thank you. So that's about it. Next. At present you can go to the pool, you can go anywhere if you write yourself - and you can forge - an honest statement. Nobody's gonna control you, the police won't prosecute you, the prosecutor won't sue you, the judge won't judge you. And millions of people are sitting in their gardens right now, or not right now, but they will, with their children, go to a swimming pool or a movie and have a false declaration of honor in their pocket because you made it possible for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u45	Mr Jakub Michálek, Member of Parliament, will now speak - with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u46	Thank you for the floor. The second reading is intended to load amendments. I did not receive any amendment from the Member as rapporteur, so if he could pass it on to me, please, so that I can get to know him as rapporteur for the press, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I think I should get to him in two copies or one for the President. And I wanted to ask if we could negotiate at least a second reading of this point, if there was a consensus, so that we could possibly include the third reading tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u47	Yes. I have noted the agreement of the MPs to discuss second reading now, even after 13:00. Yes, in Section 94, if it is not a written proposal, or if it does not contain a written proposal for justification, the Member shall justify the proposal in a detailed debate. So we have the rapporteur's request here, and now Mr Lubomír Volný continues, he has another word. [[Mrs Cernochová draws attention to the disinfection of the speaker's counter.]] Excuse me? Yes, please. So here's Mrs Černochová's request to disinfect the speaker's desk. A Member with priority rights shall speak for the ODS. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] So please, madam, for the ODS club, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am not questioning the agreement you mentioned, even though we did not receive information from the ODS that we would be negotiating over noon, but I am not questioning it. I just want to point out one interesting thing. The following point under number 544 is a pandemic emergency that most of us want to cancel. We've been discussing this quite extensively in the process of approving the program. Mr Volný, by your means, Mr Vice-President, is blocking this item, blocking the abolition of the pandemic emergency, and I want everyone who is sitting here right now or watching it to hear it. It is a Member of the Volný and Member of the Bojko who is blocking the negotiation of the termination of the pandemic emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u49	Now, Mr Lubomír Volný has the floor, please, and I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. So you're also applying for a factual comment, so now you'll have two minutes to the actual one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u50	I assume Mrs. Němcová is also progressive, or is she Černochová? [[The Free Member himself disinfects the speaker's counter.]] Through Mr President, to his previous speaker. I have an hour to block it, so I think you'll be able to show off how badly you want to cancel a pandemic emergency, which, of course, doesn't solve anything, and it's basically part of the plan to put the public to sleep, make a summer, and forget about what was here before. [[with laughter]] [[With laughter.]] Because, as Chvojka said yesterday at the press conference, the crisis situation in one single county will be enough to activate this law, which we are talking about now, and to follow it. So we're not blocking anything. I'm sure we'll vote in favour of approving or abolishing the pandemic emergency. And as I say, just from the mouth of a member of the MP who successfully blocked the Czech Television Council's approval five times with his obstructions here, and you blocked a lot of other things here, it seems very comical to me. [[with laughter]] It's okay if you're obsessing, if I'm here to take advantage of what you've given me, because you've given me an hour to inform the public about what you're up to, about what you, ODS, are planning for the people of this country, which is a covide hell, so you're going to be upset that I'm stalling the pandemic emergency. I'm sure it's going to be discussed today, but beware, citizens, abolishing a pandemic emergency is a fraud, it's a trick to put you to sleep and make you forget about what's been going on here for the last year. When this law is activated, according to Mr Chvojka, a member of the government party, one single district will be sufficient to have bad statistics, and this law will be reactivated. Not to mention that the words from the KSČM members have been heard here, that, in essence, whether we cancel the emergency or not, it almost doesn't matter. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u51	Mr Marian Bojko will now make a point of fact. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would turn, by your means, to Mrs Černochová. Madam, please, are we blocking something here? You guys put muzzles on us saying he can only talk for two or two 15 minutes. I've limited my speech to less than 14 minutes, so don't tell me I'm blocking something. You, if you want to block, block so successfully that the Czech Television Board will never approve. So don't tell me I'm blocking something. I didn't even take my time, and I had twice 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u53	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak at his second speech in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor, your 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u54	Thank you. I don't know where I left off, so I'd start all over again, but I can't, so I'm just going to finish reading the proposals that - I repeat - the citizens of the Czech Republic, even if the abolition of the pandemic emergency has passed, this law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u55	I'm gonna ask the House techs again, because I had 15 minutes on, and now it's zeroed in here, and now it's jumping in. We're having a hard time here today. Madame, you reminded me correctly. [[To the Blackwoman's office.]] Anyway, I had it on and running, but I don't know what's going on with the display today. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u56	Thank you, my colleague, for turning me in so beautifully that my time is running out. It's really great in the House that it works here, that he's suing really like somewhere in second or third grade. Amazing. [[Voices from the right side of the hall.]] There's even "asshole" in here. Well, that's the level, that's your liberal democratic level. Yeah, you guys are classy, but only as long as somebody's watching, then you're just freaks. However, once again, I must repeat to all those who are watching this live transmission, to spread the information among all others. At the moment these amendments fail, there will be no guarantee that people who are not vaccinated will be able to vote in their electoral districts, and there is no guarantee that people who are not vaccinated will be able to vote in electoral commissions. If this House refuses, then it is a moral duty of the SPD and the KSČM to really block this act. Why? Because, as Mr Chvojka of the government of the ČSSD said, bad statistics will suffice in one single district, this law will be reactivated, and as I said, the crime lords will choose three people for the committees, the criminal captains will guard the ballot boxes and your right to elections will virtually cease to exist because there is a huge hole created, there is a huge hole in the network where millions of votes can be stolen. That possibility is here, and if any of you are refusing to close the hole so that there isn't, then for me, you are personally a member of an organized group of criminals who are about to commit electoral fraud in the Czech Republic. And if the SPD and the KSČM do not prevent him from approving these amendments, then all their voters will know, I guarantee it, because we here forbid him to require any other document on the state of health for voters other than an honest declaration of infectivity. No tests, no certificates - an honest statement. At the same time, we forbid the requirement of any document other than an honest declaration of infectivity from any member of the electoral committee. And if you don't approve of this, and the SPD and the KSČM will let this law pass, then they're accomplices. Then we write that it is not the duty of any of the commission to demand this statement from anyone, it simply is not. I will now read the official justification: "Thanks to the illegal measures of the government of the Czech Republic, which counter-constitutionally contrary to the law of the Czech Republic and also good morals caused the economic decline of thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in favour of multinational corporations and directly or indirectly caused the unnecessary death of thousands of citizens in our homeland, given the above, there is a growing suspicion in a small part of the citizens of the Czech Republic that public authorities were dominated by organized criminal groups. Members of these criminal groups may be extremely interested in never being investigated or punished. To do this, they need the opportunity to influence the political situation not only in the Czech Republic and to influence the real results of the elections. This raises concern about the abuse of the so-called pandemic law following the regulation of electoral regulations, which would then allow organized crime members in the government structures of the Czech Republic to vote differently than in the classic electoral district, as has been customary until now, by using a falsely announced epidemic state or pandemic emergency, another illegal decision restricting the participation of healthy voters by their designation as infectious and forcing millions of voters to vote. Given the link between organised crime and the party structure at all levels of public power, including regions, municipalities and cities, which none of these anti-corruption parties denies, there is then an enormous risk of successful attempts at criminal obstruction of the preparation and course of elections and of influencing elections. The possibilities of successful attempts to obstruct the preparation and the course of elections in the Czech Republic can effectively prevent the possibility of civil control of the preparation of elections -"I have no idea who and why it should bother - "which are the subject of these amendments by Members of the Free Block. By using modern monitoring means of 21st-century methods combined with traditional forms of electoral supervision, and thanks to police involvement, the possible electoral fraud will eventually become very difficult to implement." The point is that our amendments do not limit anyone to anything, on the contrary, add the right and power of civil society, add the right and power to all of you here in the House to watch over the outcome of the elections and give citizens the opportunity to regain confidence in the electoral system in the Czech Republic and in this Chamber of Deputies. The rejection of these amendments will mean one thing: you will refuse to give people more power, you will refuse public control and send out a clear signal that there is going to be electoral fraud in the Czech Republic. And millions of people in this country in the finals will never believe the election results again, because no one will know whether the elections were fair or not. Our proposals are not controversial at all, they contain nothing at all that contradicts good morals, they contain nothing at all that contradicts habit, they merely allow it to be chosen as always. They only allow what is happening on our streets today. They only allow a person to write a statement of honor and vote. They allow me to sign an honest statement, become a member of the commission, and prevent the captains who, you already know, have broken the law, just like this government, to break the law again and to manipulate the outcome of the election. There's nothing controversial, there's nothing wrong, there's nothing immoral. It has nothing to do with gender balance, it does not attack the rights of any minority, it uses modern technology, it strengthens civil society, and it generally strengthens people's confidence in our political system. I really don't know if you're going to manipulate this election and steal why these proposals shouldn't go through. [[13.10 hours]] However, I know exactly what I will do when you reject these proposals. The SPD and the KSČM will allow their approval. I'm glad you're listening, because in that case, I will personally activate the head of the second, Art. 23 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms: "Citizens have the right to oppose anyone who would remove the democratic order of human rights and fundamental freedoms established by the Charter if the activities of constitutional bodies and the effective use of legal means are prevented." We are already in this situation today practically after 17 illegal government proposals, and I swear to you here that if these amendments do not pass, if the SPD and the KSČM allow the approval of this law, and the situation will evolve as I have described it, i.e. by artificially invoking the pandemic and in the finals by illegal restrictions on the rights of non-vacated, then with all those who want to activate Article 23 and actively physically oppose the Covido Mafia and physically oppose the disruption of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, I will happily go with them first into the physical struggle, and lastly, if I do not stay there, I will leave the fight. Because we won't allow you to kidnap this republic without a fight and get us all into covido hell. So I swear and help me bůh. And most of you already know that when I promised you something in this House, I kept it. Think right and strengthen citizens' rights and their trust in this system, because if you do exactly the opposite, we will one day come home to explain - exactly according to Article 23 - that it was a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u57	Mr Jakub Michálek, with priority right now. Sorry, I just have three apologies. Mr Pavel šindelář apologizes for this afternoon's meeting and for the whole working day tomorrow, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček apologizes from 14.00 today and Friday from 9.00 to the end of the period for health reasons, and Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes today 17. 6. all day for work reasons. Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek. Please. [[The chairman of the Pirates Club signals.]] There's no need anymore. So I'm going to see if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, so I am ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there is interest in the final words? Minister? The rapporteur? It is not, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal, and I am declaring a break and the interpelations will continue at 14.30 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-005-543.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. A few apologies to begin with. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for work reasons, Minister Jakub Kulhánek apologizes for work reasons, Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes for personal reasons, Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá to the end of the day for health reasons and Mrs Ivana Nevludová from 14.30 to the end of the meeting for personal reasons. Opening point
