ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u1	1. Government information on the distribution of European subsidies under the REACT-EU project I have information here... I therefore ask the Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, who has arrived and which I welcome among us, to take the floor. I'll ask my colleagues in the room for some peace. We are initiating a discussion of the item, so please pay attention to the information we have requested. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues. Let me inform you about current developments in the field of REACT-EU challenges. We have called a meeting between the Ministry of Health and the representative of the Association of Regions. This meeting was held on 14. 5. 2021. At the meeting we recapitulated what was actually the development of the preparation of these challenges, as approved by the various criteria for selecting these projects, what role was played there, of course, as the Association of Regions, Health Insurance, representatives of hospitals and the Ministry of Health. At this meeting, we agreed with the Regional Association that we are not interrupting the challenge, that the challenge continues, but that our common goal must be to find as many resources as possible for this challenge. Therefore, the evaluation continues according to the 23 criteria set, while the Association of Regions took the opportunity to agree, for example, on the level of co-financing at their meeting with all the authorities, because today the call is set as 100%, i.e. 100% EU funding, however, even after the agreement of the Association of Regions and the Ministry of Health, all applicants, whether they are regional hospitals or faculty hospitals, would voluntarily co-finance those projects at least 10%, but the rate of co-financing may increase, so as to reach as many applicants as possible. Until further challenges it is agreed that the limit will be reduced. That means that we actually have half a billion in the challenge today, and that limit could be reduced to 200 million or 300 million, which, of course, will be discussed by the Association of Regions. At the same time, the Association of Regions will be looking for an evaluation of all the 23 criteria, when the projects are assembled - and just for your information, it is already clear that around 11 projects have not demonstrated the opinion of the Instrument Committee, so, of course, those projects will be significantly reduced by these devices, because there was a fundamental condition for the position of the Instrument Committee. At the same time, it is agreed that I will ask the government when the second tranche of approximately CZK 6 billion comes in October, so that this tranche will also be in favour of the 98th call. Therefore, it would actually reach a great deal of projects, which will successfully pass through the evaluation of the 23 criteria. Now we're facing the 99th challenge. This 99th call should cover the development and enhancement of the resilience of care providers to patients at particular risk. This call will be announced at the earliest on 15 June, as soon as it is actually after the Association of Regions and the Ministry of Health will agree on other conditions, such as the set rate of co-financing and the reduction of the limit, as I have already discussed. Then we still have 100th challenge. This concerns increasing the readiness of those involved in addressing threats, and there is an allocation of approximately CZK 1.5 billion and would concern the development of laboratory capacities of hospitals and infectological workplaces as such. So much for the REACT-EU so far. So we are now waiting for the position of the Association of Regions and then we will be in the challenge of 98, so we will continue the evaluation, and the challenge of 99 and 100 will be announced only after the opinions based on the adaptation of the Association of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I'm going to introduce the House to other tickets received. Mrs Monika Červíčková apologizes today for health reasons, Mrs Lenka Kozlová also because of illness and Mrs Helena Langšádlová for work reasons. And now I ask that Mr Vlastimil Válek, who, if he agrees, will also be the rapporteur, take the floor on this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister very much. This is a very good and constructive approach and I want to thank you once again for it. I would like to point out that, nevertheless, the challenge has several problems, and from my point of view, we need to look at these problems and sort them out in some way. The first problem is that we should probably check out the way in which the registration took place, whether everyone really complied with the conditions, if some of the facilities were not favored, and the Chamber of Deputies should probably be clearly informed about how it went down. The second thing that I think is very important is that, in the preamble to the call 98, it is said that it is to be a strengthening of the backbone network of health establishments, and it is clearly defined that it should be the device that has the most involved in caring for patients with covid. So these two criteria, in my opinion, should be taken into account. I think that most of you in this Chamber of Deputies know how the facility was involved in the care of the covid, because some hospitals like Sokolovsky have been mentioned here and there are others. Moreover, the Prime Minister, and it was probably the right step, or the Minister of Health at the time defined some hospitals as those to provide care with ECMO, which we all probably remember, and then those where their ICUs are supposed to be used to provide care for those patients. What is more of a problem from my point of view is the backbone network of health facilities, because if I remember correctly, the Scientific Council, five ministers back, i.e. now the return of Minister Vojtěch, then he submitted material with which the Ministry agreed, but unfortunately then changed several times by the Minister. At the last scientific council, now a new one, which has already been appointed by either Minister Blatný or Minister Arenberger, I don't know exactly, under the Association of Faculty Hospitals Professor Štěrba, director of the Brno University Hospital, submitted a proposal after consultation with other members of the Scientific Council on what the backbone network should look like. The Scientific Council accepted the definition of such a proposed backbone network, recommended it to the Minister, but he resigned in the meantime. So it would be very good if the Chamber of Deputies - and that would be the second point of the resolution that I would suggest - were to obtain clear information on what a backbone network of health establishments is and that the backbone network should be listed in a taxative manner. I think that we can draw a line behind long-term discussions on the spinal net. A third point that I would like to draw attention to and which would be good for us to discuss, resolve, and that is very important from my point of view. At some point at the beginning of the year, two faculty hospitals - we discussed it here again in the Chamber of Deputies - were ordered to buy Remdesivir in a relatively large volume. Hospitals have the cure roughly - it's Motol University Hospital, Brno University Hospital - they have about 300 to 400 million each of them in the drug. But the medicine was used - the medicine was to be stored in these hospitals and the other medical facilities in the Czech Republic were to buy and treat patients with it. Both the medical facilities used a certain amount of the drug, but the other medical facilities in the Czech Republic took advantage of it at a minimum. This means, if I make it very simple, for a few hundred million in both of these hospitals, Remdesivir, which expires in 2023, is essentially not used for it, and therefore both of these faculty hospitals end up at the end of the year just because of this drug with a loss of several hundred million, which is basically not someone to pay them. [[9.20 hours]] We should also in some way stand up to this, because within the IROPs, if there is co-financing, it will be absolutely impossible for them to co-finance anything. I believe that, given that it was a government regulation, this drug should probably be taken into its reserves, into tangible reserves, and in government material reserves, and that it should be deposited there. Because if it's not used, it can't be paid for by health insurance. And the question is whether we can offer it to the surrounding countries, where we are currently, in India or some others, the number of patients is growing and would be there for use, or whether we can have it in material reserves in case the situation gets worse. I'm warning you again, the drug expires in 2023 and we're talking about some 500 million, half a billion. It's not a small amount. I therefore believe that we should discuss these points very briefly but constructively and agree on a resolution that obliges the government to make the outcome of the IROPs in favour of patients and that access to the irop should be equal, fair, and really strengthen the backbone network, or really strengthen those health establishments that were most burdened with the covid pandemic - without thinking that the pandemic is behind us - however, by the time the ICUs burst in the seams and when the medical devices really could not. Well, that's my request, and that's how I'd like to have fun tonight. I certainly do not, and I think that none of the Members in this House are interested in having fun other than constructively, because it is really something that is not political, but it is something that is a matter of patient care in the Czech Republic, and something that is a question of the future of health care in the Czech Republic. I think we can show that we are able to handle this issue wisely and for the benefit of citizens just because we are chairing the European Union next year. Part of our Presidency will be a health issue, and we should be in the decision-making of European subsidies that go into health care, a sort of display closet that we can also present within our Presidency, and we will be able to show how we deal with this in our Republic. This is a unique opportunity and this opportunity should be used for the benefit of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I will ask Mr Válek, just in case, if he becomes rapporteur? Yes. So please let him take the floor at the news station. I see the Minister is applying with priority rights. I'll ask if I can open the debate. I am therefore initiating a general debate, in which Mr Profant is signed up, but before that the Minister has been given priority rights, then President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'd respond to the rapporteur right away. Of course, at this meeting, we also discussed signing up for projects. We asked the NÚKIB for an opinion because it is crucial for us whether it is really possible to reveal that someone used a robot. However, the NÚKIB is still working on it, but I'm sure I'll keep you informed of the position. Otherwise, I would like to inform President Wark that we have an opinion on these criteria, it is paragraph 16. In fact, this criterion is: the project includes measures to combat covid and this contribution is described and implemented in the aid application. That's what it means. That's what we put in the reaction. Likewise, the backbone network is defined by criterion 14. The applicant is a health care provider under the Health Services Act and the conditions for their provision and is involved in a network of urgent income satisfying the conditions of the methodological instruction for the establishment and management of urgent income by the acute bed care provider published in the Ministry of Health Bulletin. The spinal net has just been defined in this journal. I'm sorry about Remdesivir, I'll pass the question on to the Minister of Health, and I assume he'll be answered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to just keep saying thank you because I'm the opposition. However, the problem - and I understand that the Minister cannot perceive it in such detail - is not that urgent income is not defined there in Section 16 and others, there are also children's workplaces and so on, but the problem is that it is working with the term of the backbone network, and the Ministry of Health really should define what a backbone network is. It's not a problem of the last year, it's a problem of many years. And there's no point in talking about the culprit here, but I think for all the captains, for all the medical facilities and in general for organizations, it would be very good to take advantage of this opportunity and have a clearly defined backbone network. Notaben, when after a long time two scientific councils of the Minister of Health agreed differently on what the definition was. I think it's a great shame not to use it, because the definition is not entirely uniquely political, but it is defined by scientific advice, which seems like a very good way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And now, President Stanjura with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Then the Minister is no longer here alone. The Minister of Culture has arrived. I'm sure that's good. I'm going back to the debate that preceded this extraordinary meeting where we tried to show the absurdity of a double click. I think President Válek described it exactly. It is in our common interest for health care to work. I'd add to the list of eligible people who are interested in this, those who are often forgotten in these debates, and that's what we patients are. And it's very important for patients to have access to medical care, to be within driving distance and so on. That's actually what the backbone network is supposed to do, because no one doubts that top-notch care is offered to our patients in the capital, and let's say in those cities where faculty hospitals are, organizations are directly established by the state. And if we want to build a backbone network and use European money to improve the quality of health care there, above which there is definitely a consensus, then the rate of registration cannot be decided. That's completely absurd. I think we're going to have this debate today in a milder and calmer spirit, but I believe that if we didn't come out here and point to this absurdity, then maybe the other two challenges would be under the same regime as the first challenge. After the exchange of views, I noticed a speech by the Minister, who said: It is far from certain that the rate of registration will decide. That would be good news. That would really be good news. So I have a question about the Minister when the call that took place will actually be evaluated and whether or not the log-in speed will be used there. Otherwise, I don't have a problem with the NÚKIB checking, of course, but let's just say, and now I don't want to defend anyone - was it forbidden to use a robot? [[Voices from the diaper.]] It was. Well, if it was forbidden, then it's clear. But if someone used it, it's only because it was pushed through those conditions. And the secretary hasn't said anything yet. I consider this letter of your subordinates scandalous. Just writing to hospital bosses, people who have great managerial experience, and their teams to set up world time and practice double-clicks, seems to me like something really incredible, really humoristic literature. And it never occurred to me that it would be on an official document that would leave the ministry in charge of the entire agenda of European funds as a serious board. Maybe it was good, but if you read it from a distance and you're not overwhelmed by reading the formal terms of the program, then I think you have to admit that it's not normal and that it degenerates the work of those who were preparing the projects. And if it's true... [[A call at the news desk.]] I'm not in a hurry. We're just getting started. If it's true that many projects get a full number of points, don't be mad at me, Madam Secretary, it's wrong to set them up. It is not possible, it is not possible if it is not a claim grant, and it is not a claim subsidy, so that whoever fulfils the conditions, so that many get a hundred percent rating or a hundred points out of a hundred and so on. If that's how it was set up, it's wrong, and in that case, we need to proceed with a more detailed evaluation of these parameters. Of course, two, three, four, five projects may prove to be of equal quality at first sight. But then comes what President Válek was talking about. An evaluation of whether or not this is part of the backbone network. Comparison of existing equipment between regions or between hospitals. Maybe more data, that means how many people are being treated with that serious disease, how many people are dying from that serious disease and all that. I really think it can be done. And if the experts who evaluate it agree, I think we can completely demolish the pointless sign-in speed indicator. And then there won't be a problem. I don't think we're here to say and defend regional interests and say "projects from our region are better than projects from the next county" when experts see it differently, but we're here to do it, and I'm here to defend, for example, medical facilities in my region, that it's not possible that it's not possible that he decides whether or not the money comes or goes, he's going to decide the login speed. We used very often sports comparisons and experience from sport. Take a look at the state of the sprints, for example, at 100 meters. There, when the start reaction is too fast, and it takes 0.0, and now I don't know exactly the number, the athlete is actually disqualified. And if anyone's signed up in a hundred seconds, that's also suspicious. But most importantly, it's completely absurd. [[9.30 hours]] Actually, I have another question today. Because of the fact that the other challenges will be coordinated - they have not yet been published, which is a good thing, I think that our performance fulfilled its purpose a few weeks ago, that's what we wanted. At the same time, we wanted to talk about how the first challenge would be evaluated. So, Madam Secretary, when will this be published, the results? Because then we will be able to compare whether the login time, the speed of the double click or other professional criteria have actually been used. We are, of course, B to apply only other professional criteria. Then those who fail must wonder for themselves why others were more successful. But not by having faster optical connections or better trained double click or better synchronized hospital time with world time. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, is now making a point of fact. Mr Profant will have to wait a little longer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would briefly follow up on my previous speaker Zbyněk Stanjura. What I'm missing right now is a strategic focus. It just seems to me that every county or the founders wrote down what they needed, what they needed before the covid, and what they needed after the covid. And then one of those factors was speed. But the pandemic is much wider. We must look at the issue from the point of view of the whole Czech Republic. After all, patients from the Zlín Region were transported to Prague in the biggest crisis. So, in my opinion, the criterion of speed is completely wrong. Even if it was just one of the criteria. After all, there must be a strategic focus of the nationwide, which will guarantee that these projects complement and follow up on each other. And if they're in the South Moravian Region, in the Zlín Region, or in Prague, speed can't play a role here. I'm the fifth term of the municipal council. I worked as mayor. I was also always happy to receive a grant. And I understand that if you're repairing a sewage treatment plant or building a sports hall, that's where the speed criterion can be applied to some extent. Because there's a competition between Karlovy Vary and Zlin. But the REACT programme is about us being able to face a crisis that affects the whole Czech Republic. Therefore, this strategic focus and coherence are essential.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. I'm starting to get applications here. As the first Mr Fridrich with a factual remark, then priority rights, where appropriate. [[Member Fridrich hasn't checked in.]] Mr Fridrich is registered with a factual remark. There's gotta be some mistake. In that case, Mr Válek, as rapporteur, first with priority rights, then with the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really am an old man. I'm going through a deep depression of my own. I used the term Remdesivir. We're talking about Regeneron. If I'm wrong about drug names, it's sad. I apologize to everyone for that, even to those in the room, and to those who hear it. We're talking about Regeneron, and I would just explain the problem. The drug expires - once again - in 2023 and really both of those faculty hospitals now have their money in the amount of several hundred million crowns. A hundred million crowns. The money has to be paid by the end of the year. Since they are unable to use the drug or other medical facilities, they would not be able to enter the REACT with participation, because the first thing they would have to do would have to finance this relatively large debt. Since these are the two largest medical facilities in the Czech Republic, the proposal that could be the right solution to buy the drug from state material reserves and be stored there, I would consider that the right solution. I repeat, we're talking about Regeneron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u15	Thank you for this correction. And Mrs Dostálová. Minister and MP, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u16	Both. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'd just react. I would really like to say, just as Mr Benešík or President Stanjura said, the speed of submission is not a criterion. Neither of those 23 criteria is the rate of administration. It may be necessary - I didn't do it at the beginning, because I thought we already had the agreement with the Regional Association, but maybe I can introduce you to how it works, to prepare the challenges. There is a so-called conceptual group under the Ministry of Health. On this conceptual group, which met several times, representatives of the Ministry of Health are in the role of the highest - ministers, deputy ministers and so on. The Regional Association also - no officials, there are the authorities. At the first meeting was Mr.Chief Čunek, at the second meeting was Mr.Chief Netolický, at the third meeting Mr.Chief Netolický and Mr.Chief Kuba. This means, indeed, it is at the highest levels where priority areas are being discussed. So it was agreed that this area of support would relate to the following priority areas in the conceptual group: modernisation and strengthening the resilience of the backbone network of healthcare providers with regard to potential threats, development and modernisation of workplaces following a standardised network of urgent income such as ICU, ARO, operating rooms, intervention and diagnostic workplaces. With 65 percent of the allocation going for health care. The second priority area is the development and enhancement of the resilience of care providers to patients at particular risk. Third - increasing the readiness of the entities involved in the threat management. At these meetings a representative of the Regional Association, the Governor, who was responsible and appointed by the Council of the Regional Association, said that it is not appropriate to seek the allocation key between the regions because he is not convinced of the state of readiness of health care providers. He subsequently agreed to the allocation proposals and proposed to increase some financial limits to the project and the beneficiary. The increase was from 300 million to 500 million. At the next meeting, all the opinions of the various actors were further recapitulated, i.e. hospitals, the Ministry of Health, the Association of Regions. Therefore, the limits for individual projects and the eligibility of applicants have been agreed. Of course, it was agreed that by really being for a wide network of health care providers, the criteria would be set so that it would not be there that an official who basically doesn't know anything about health care made a range of points zero to ten, but it was set either to meet the project, that is, to gain a full number of points, or to fail and to earn zero points. That way, of course, when all these projects are evaluated - and I say again, the specific criteria are quite strict, budgets will be dealt with very closely, monitoring indicators will be met and so on and so on - once these projects are lined up in a row, the allocation of these funds may be smaller than the number of applications for those projects. Then it's called the final one, when you just have to do the line behind the allocation somewhere. Then, of course, they are taken into account - just like the regions did in the cauldron subsidies, these are very common procedures, they just had a certain amount of money and a certain number of requests, so the line is done, who comes first. That's why it played the point of time. But it's not a selection criterion. That's what needs to be said. At the meeting with the Association of Regions, we were just looking for a way that the time criterion would not actually be necessary at all, because it simply needs to be increased in the context of what you are saying here correctly, that it should, of course, get across the Czech Republic. Therefore, the measures - increasing co-financing, reducing the limit, the whole second tranche in favour of the 98th call to get to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. I would now welcome the old-fashioned Minister of Health Vojtěch among us. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u18	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I think that now the Minister here has said one very important thing, I am glad that she has said it, and that is precisely the conceptual group that worked before its own challenge and which coordinated the preparation of the call. And it was said here that at the meeting of this conceptual group, which, I believe, met about three times, one captain said, his name didn't come up, a request for an increase in the allocation from 300 to 500 million. [[Secretary Dostálová from the newsroom table off the microphone.]] Yes, so the Secretary of State has already told me in private. I knew it, but it didn't sound public. And I want to ask if it was the Governor's position as a member of the Regional Association at the time, or if it was his private position. And then I want to ask why it was even brought on. Because we knew what the total allocation for this challenge was, and we also knew - and the monitoring between the hospitals and those applicants already existed - that means we knew that the total allocation would be exceeded. That means, I don't understand the strategy where we actually know that we have a package, that applications are going to be worth more than this package, and yet that application from the Governor has been approved in this way. That's what I think no one's head is taking, and it's one of the things that really, really, really raised those failed regions. And then I would like to ask whether it is possible for Minister Dostálová to publish the entries from the conceptual group, because I think that this is also very important in the discussion of how the preparation of the call went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u19	Thank you and Mr Mašek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to Professor Válek's colleague. There's a term here for the backbone network of hospitals and certain agreements around the backbone network. So I would just like to point out: It is said that in 78 hospitals - or district hospitals, former district hospitals - urgent income is to be generated. Let's think of this as the very backbone network of hospitals, because there's a lot of money going on with these emergency revenues, and it's one of the programs that went really well with the Ministry of Health, and I'm like a former paramedic for that. So the spinal network of hospitals is in custody of the 78 urgent income that the money is supposed to go to, of course, to the equipment of the ICU, labs and others. And what exactly are hospitals? Where's the ambulance taking the emergency patients? Where are patients in an acute state coming in their own way or are they being imported by the transport health service? And that's the backbone of the acute care network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mr Válek, then with priority rights Vice-President Filip, so that he can replace me in good order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I, by your means, must say that I agree with my colleague Mašek on a professional basis, and in this case I agree with him on a professional basis. From my point of view, it doesn't really matter how the backbone network is defined, and copying the urgent revenue equals the backbone network seems to me to be the right solution. I'd just like this to come out clearly from the Ministry of Health, either if that's how it was recommended by the Scientific Council, let it be accepted, if that's not how it was recommended, and the Ministry has a different opinion or the Minister has a different opinion, once again it's okay. No matter how defined the backbone network for the moment, that definition can be changed at any time, but there should be a definition. If these projects are related to the backbone network and if the aim is to build an equal-quality backbone network across the whole Republic, then the medical facilities that have urgent income and need to be equipped with it should not fall out of those projects at the expense of those devices that, say, have been faster or have submitted more projects, and do not really need to be equipped or reconstructed, adjusted, altered, or modified. I would just like those criteria to be quite clear, and if the criterion is a backbone network, then it has to be published: the backbone network is equal to a hospital with an urgent income. Even that's a definition that's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip, then Minister Vojtěch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I didn't want to interfere, although I have some doubts that everything we're preparing here will be accepted from the point of view of European funds, but if we're talking about the backbone network of hospitals, I'm reminding you that we had a system of health non-profit organizations that were actually built on the backbone network system. The network was defined, and because there was a provision in the law that it was necessary to create such non-profit medical facilities, it was abolished by the Constitutional Court and then the government of Mirek Topolánek abolished the law as a whole. And that's when the system fell apart, and now we're going back to it, I'd say, in a much more financially demanding form. That's one thing. And the second thing is that we're going to have to agree on how what was said here, including the ambulance and the acute income, how to secure it financially so that it really is a backbone network, to provide the same health care in the territory of the Czech Republic, given that it is transferred to regions, of course, except for faculty hospitals, which is a different category. I'd like it not to fit in completely. I'll listen to the Minister of Health if that's the idea and if we get out of the system at least by saying what it will cost to secure the entire territory, e.g. If we transfer the air rescue service to a central system that might suit this, because we know that individual regions, as far as the territories are concerned, must, of course, make contracts with the neighbouring regions of the air rescue service, because crossing from some places is, of course, much more advantageous - if I take Vimperk from the Plzeň Region than is from Budějovice. So I'd just like us to remember this, and if we're going to build this, so that what was built here, which was canceled in 2006, 2010, we don't start something and then we don't finance it. I think we need to take great care of that here. As far as other projects are concerned, this would be a debate for a much longer period of time. But I don't want to worry about it, I don't want to take on other people who are dealing with it directly with us, or in terms of individual regions, but I think this is important from the point of view of the real system that got into trouble in the pandemic in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I will introduce the House to the pardons. Mr. Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes to us for working reasons for today's meeting. Mr Přemysl Mališ apologizes to us from 10.45 to 14.30 hours due to a doctor's visit and Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for today's work. Next, Mrs Procházková will vote with the replacement card number 15. And now please the Minister, who has signed up with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this debate on REACT-EU and perhaps also to respond to some of the comments that I have noted, in particular, from Mr Válek's mouth, but also from others, because I, as the Minister of Health, was actually at the beginnings of the debate on REACT-EU and about its connection to the network, the backbone network of hospitals. We at the Ministry of Health - and here we actually confirm - have actually created for the first time some concept that is right from my point of view, and this is actually the concept of urgent income, the network of urgent income, whether the first type linked to the trauma center primarily or the second type in those hospitals, especially district hospitals, with the fact that all parameters were clearly defined, all conditions together with the professional company and others, how the emergency income is to look, what the hospital is to meet, what the fields are to provide at least in the basic fields, care 24 hours 7 days a week complement, laboratories, imaging methods etc. [[9.50 hours]] So this concept is, it's in the journal, everywhere, basically, I think they're already familiar with it today, and that's the only concept of the backbone network we have here in the Czech Republic. It is approved by insurance companies, is in principle consecrated by the approval of special performances that are reported in the context of urgent income, etc., etc. So I dare say that the real backbone in this direction is defined. It was designed to take really into account the natural state of affairs, to take account of the fact that patients are heading to these hospitals in the medical emergency service and that they are really those hospitals that are crucial for providing acute bed care. And that's why we started to debate that these hospitals, if they are to be backbone, and if they are to meet the conditions that we have set up and are in the journal and are in the payment decree, etc., they simply need to get money for investment so that the network of urgent income - which is already working somewhere today - and they often work well, but unfortunately in a minority of hospitals - is actually created so that there is a real network of urgent income not only on paper, and that is why the investment tool was invented. I myself will certainly still want to talk about it with Minister Dostálová, because I think we need to find the means to make the very hospitals that wanted to invest and want to invest in urgent income - and I can now also speak from some of my own experience, for example. in the Ústí Region - just to get the money. Because it is absolutely crucial for Czech health care, it is absolutely crucial for the effectiveness of providing acute bed care and for the development of the system at all. So I think that this debate is definitely gonna have to be held, and I think it's already started with my predecessor, and I'm gonna want to continue with it. My goal is to simply make sure that those hospitals that meet the conditions that they want to invest in their urgent revenues and that the operations, such as, of course, operating rooms, ICUs, and so on to reach the money. But I just really want to confirm that that's the concept that was actually counted on at the very beginning, even when we started debating that there's going to be some REACT and that there's going to be some investment priorities here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Mašek, who I apologize to if I skipped it, is still registered with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. I would like to return here, through Mr President, to Mr Filip, who was talking about a certain one, perhaps indicated some uncertainty about the air rescue service. On the contrary, I would like to say that it was the success of the Minister of Health, an old-fashioned one, but in the first part of his work it was that he managed to provide air rescue for eight years without any problems. And when I remind you of what happened here in the past election periods around the Air Rescue Service, he and his team are very grateful for that. So the air ambulance is not a problem, and for the next eight years it will be fully operational and will serve well for the citizens of this republic. So that's one point. And then even my colleague Filip mentioned some problems at the border between the county and the intervention of the rescue service. Here I would like to say that for many years now, there have been agreements on inter-regional cooperation between ambulances and good cooperation between dispatches. So even here, the uncovering of the disputed areas and the "cross-border" cooperation between the regions is functional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. I shall now introduce the House to other pardons. Mr Farský apologizes today between 12:00 and midnight, respectively. until the end of the day of the hearing. And Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes today between 9:45 and 12:00 for work reasons. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Holík. There's only one point of fact at this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, honourable ministers, fellow Members, I would like to ask my previous speaker, through Mr President, about the rescue services. I'm from the Zlín Region and we have a bit of a problem there that the Zlín Region does not have its ambulance and more or less solves it partly Olomouc and part Brno. The tragedy is that from both cities it is quite far from Zlin. And for some time, we've been trying to get Trencin to deal with the southern part of the Zlín Region. It would be a multinational service, but it works with Austria, it works with Poland. Why aren't we pushing to do this with Slovakia? I mean, as far as I'm concerned, we're making excuses that the Slovák don't want it, the Slovák are making excuses that we don't want it. That's why I'd like to ask for some help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u31	Thank you and we will now continue the general debate with Mr Profant's application, which finally got its turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u32	Well, thank you, and I'm glad the time for the first logged in is up. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister. I was still talking to our captains today, and I know that there really was some reflection on the 99 and 100 challenges. It's being negotiated, the criteria are being adjusted in some way. And after all, the programs are more specifically targeted, so it's really clear what's going to be divided into approximately what places, etc., which is definitely a much better condition than what happened at that challenge 98. Because there's a problem that when we have, like, a cauldron grant, it's a huge amount of money and there's relatively small applications, so it's asked for over the months, while all of them... or already an increase in the allocation has actually been requested immediately. And that's the problem, and that's why we're getting to what was there, the unfortunate decision-making of time. Of course, we are all eager to see how this will eventually be evaluated. And I would like to point out, of course, that this can also play a role, because the Ministry is currently negotiating with the authorities, for example, but on the other hand, most of the captains are impatiently waiting for the decision to be made. Which is also not a very good condition. And that's what I want to talk about, that's the system solution, the system change. Because that's what's missing. It's just been unhappy here, and I think we need to draw systemic change from it. Therefore, I am also very pleased that the Minister of Health is here, because I would like to point out that there is a total distribution of 15 billion in this REACT-EU in health care, when we add it up, and the budget of the Ministry of Health is 18 billion, if I remember correctly. That means, that's almost the Ministry's financials. Of course, health care is financed primarily through health insurance, but it is still the strength of the Ministry's background, which is supposed to manage the area methodically. So I think it's immeasurable, and it's a great shame that there's no closer cooperation professionally, when we really don't have defined terms to manage, which is what my previous speakers mentioned here, e.g. a network of hospitals, and I think we need to fix that. That there was such a bureaucratic shortcut. We've got the money, we're supposed to split it up, but we haven't exactly agreed how to do it the most. Because, of course, it has to be said by the Department of Health where it's most beneficial. Especially in the situation we're in today. There's just a pandemic, a global crisis. We have seen that the health system and other systems have gone beyond their capabilities, and we should not ignore anything that might help the system. So that's the question of cooperation between the resorts, and that really those expert resorts should always be involved. I understand that it might be from the other side, that these expert resorts might not want to do it, because maybe they don't want to be the bad guy who said someone did, somebody didn't. But it just needs to be done. [[10.00 hours]] And the second system change is the technical security system. There, my colleague Stanjura, through the President, has already talked about this. However, I don't think the only problem is robots. There is a problem that the entire evaluation was actually outsourcing. I have letters from private companies that write to hospital directors. Guarantee winning in REACT-EU. I got that from a couple of hospital directors, the chieftains and all that. [[He's showing letters.]] That's what they wrote. And what's the problem? That, of course, the hospital, what is it supposed to do? What's the director supposed to do? He's not gonna click it himself, he's not gonna rehearse the double-click. And so logically, he's gonna get a company to administer the contract. Which may have been admitted by the ex-health minister that the hospital run by him had exactly this kind of company that administered it for them. However, then we get into a relationship that the public funds are divided between private companies working for hospitals and a private company working for the Ministry of Regional Development, in this case Tesco SW, which supplies and administers the entire subsidy system, which, of course, is not a healthy relationship and we need to avoid it in such matters. Of course, it is understandable that I will invite someone to help me with the stylistic, administrative adjustment of subsidies. But I'm very worried that in some of these, it wasn't just that. And indeed a robot is the easiest way to guarantee the timely submission. And, of course, from the point of view of the person trying to ask, there's nothing so surprising about it that he's trying to make sure he's there as soon as possible by all means. Of course, if it's against the rules, it's against the rules. But it's logical that the applicants are fighting for subsidies. But it could also be location in the network compared to servers. And all these elements... And that's extremely unfortunate. And you can't count on it. I don't mean to underestimate my colleagues at the SACUIB, but we can't re-create these ties based on, like, forensic analysis. So I think there's just a system problem. And that has to be dealt with in the future. We really need to make sure that those criteria are clear, professional, and that even those hospital directors, for example, live in some stable environment where they know: here's a challenge that will help me fund this, not just as here I'm gonna pay for the company and she's gonna get me some kind of grant. And actually here I'd like to go back to the Ministry of Health, and that's, I think we have a lot to talk about, too, about sustainable funding. Just subsidy challenges should always be a sort of bonus, not a basic way of financing institutions. But unfortunately, it's happening to us. This is a specific case, because it is money from the European Union allocated one-time to recovery after the global pandemic. But in general, we are quite fond of this in the Czech Republic. That's how we finance the transport infrastructure. We also finance the development of health care. And it's not happy because, of course, if you're going to manage, if you have a budget, you're responsible for a larger hospital budget and you have to rely on subsidies, so you have two pavilions, one luxuriously fixed from the subsidy, and the other you don't have any money. And, of course, the money from the subsidy, which is so generous that you could split it up and repair both pavilions at least partially, you won't split it because the subsidy is clearly allocated. So that's where I think there's another thing where the system change has to happen. So these are the main things I wanted to say here. And I hope that these two other challenges will really lead to the negotiations being started, not that everyone will be satisfied, that will probably not happen in these cases, but that no one's complaint will be justified in any way and that the call 98 will be divided so that really the regions that will be affected by how it is divided will not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u33	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We will continue the debate. But first, factual points. kolegyně Gajdůšková, colleague Vondrák and Minister Dostálová with factual remarks and duly registered Petr Bendl. Now, then, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Madam Secretary, Minister, I want to respond to Mr Holík's speech. He spoke of the fact that in the Zlín Region, the Zlín Region was not covered by the medical rescue service. Of course it is. But we need to be re-equipped. That is why applications to REACT, because I think the citizens of the Zlín Region deserve to have as much health care as everyone else. That is why I think that it could be, and that is the subject of thinking for both the Minister and the Minister, one of the criteria for supporting the healthcare network should also be how much it actually goes to citizens in individual regions. And I know that Zlinsky County isn't doing so well. It's at the end of those comparisons. But my colleague Holík spoke of the air rescue service. And it is true that not the entire territory of the Zlín Region is covered by the air rescue service. But that is what the new regional representation is trying very hard to do. It's in the Zlín Region Council's statement. And we'll be really happy to get that support. It needs to be dealt with. But we are aware that it has its pitfalls. And it needs to be dealt with rationally so that the service is really secured. I just needed to respond to a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Vondrák, with a point of fact, Madam Secretary after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u36	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will say that for an hour and seven minutes we are breaking into an open door because yesterday there was a meeting of the Association of Regions with representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Health, where we are looking for a solution to a non-trivial problem, as far as possible covering all regions, as far as possible all key projects so that everyone is satisfied. So I just want to say that by the end of this week, regional representatives, all regions are preparing their views on how to solve the 98th, 99th and 100th REACT-EU challenges. The final design of the material will be processed next week. On the eighth day, representatives of the Association of Regions meet again with the Ministry of Regional Development and with the Ministry of Health to bring it to an end. So thank you. Maybe we can save time, and we can deal with things rather than discuss them in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping up the time and effective performance. Now also, Minister Dostálová, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. I basically wanted to say what my colleague Vondrák said, because of course I have information about this meeting. On the other hand, I owe two answers to President Stanjur: it will be evaluated by mid-July. And I was very interested in Mr. Profant's performance, so very briefly. We in the challenge have that they have to ask in person. That's where we could turn that robot around. But you really brought me to the idea, because it's quite common today that projects are being outsourcing, of course. That means someone's doing it for the applicant. But I understand that we actually need to ensure that it is actually submitted from the applicant's systems. And that's where I'd really like to get in touch with you, because that's a pretty interesting idea for us to do something else together. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u39	I also thank the Minister for keeping time. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, with a point of fact, is still prepared by Petr Bendl. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues, most of it here for us, for the Pirates Club, was summarized by Ondřej Profant. But I'd just like to remind you why we're here and why it's very important to re-set or otherwise negotiate an evaluation is what's written in the criteria of the challenge. I'll allow myself to point out in fact, to show the context of the debate that when we talk about a normal assessment of the challenge, there's no specs. The criteria are type: the project complies with the conditions of the call, the project is focused on objectives and supported activities of the call, the results of the project are sustainable and such things as the need to implement the project is justified. But it's not clear what the reasons are. So it all sounds nice, but then when you realize that the conclusion is written: the conclusion - the substantive evaluation of the project - and there it is stated: for aid applications in this call is not carried out in kind, so at that point - how is the substantive evaluation not carried out? After all, the substance of the matter should be the substance of the matter, in order to make it factually clear what the development of health care in the Czech Republic will look like, in some way regionally and systematically balanced. But that is not at all what is being done in the context of this challenge. And that's the core of the poodle, that's the main problem. It's purely formalistic, and that's what I think this debate is supposed to draw attention to. This can't be what strategic development looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Bendl, now duly signed up, who is also the last member of the debate so far. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I will ask the House for peace. If you're discussing another subject, please go to the foyer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, and perhaps this is understandable for Minister Dostálová, but it is not possible to compare the boiler subsidies and their allocation with the grant of grants under the REACT-EU project into a rather complex health system. Each region must have approved so-called health regional concept. This is a material that talks about the development of hospitals, about their financing, and there are always relatively difficult negotiations between the Ministry of Health, Insurance and Regional Representatives to develop a modernization of health or health system with some long-term perspective. We have been working on relatively large projects to modernize district hospitals in the past and there have been really difficult negotiations on how we can maintain funding. So how were the criteria set now, if I understand correctly, so in the original version, 100% funding from the state was expected, and in the 21 (?) The criteria are not the only economic criterion that would also assess the sustainability of the investments from the allocation of subsidies that are coming. I consider this to be a systemic mistake, because paradoxically, those hospitals can then get into a situation that, although they are now going to get large amounts of funding into their budgets, they will modernize and suddenly the debate will start about who will pay for it on-site and if funding is even sustainable. Therefore, the individual challenges must also have some kind of feedback, so that we are able not to deal with what the Ministry of Regional Development has finally solved, because it is quite clear that we can invest so much in Czech health care. And it's almost always not enough, because we just want health care to be as good as possible. Unfortunately, we'll always run into the financial limits here in this case. That's why the debate, whether it was going to be 300 million or 500 million, doesn't really matter. If there were 700, I'm sure we'd run out of money. But we also have to ask whether we are able to maintain the funding so that we suddenly do not get to the situation that they will have modern new devices, will be newly equipped with urgent care, and suddenly we find that there are no financial resources to ensure financial sustainability. So, even though the Minister says that time was not a criterion, it was actually because there is no economic criterion, so that we could be able, or those assessors of those applications were able to evaluate the sustainability of the investment itself. That is why I consider the debate to be effective today, and if it were not for Stanjura, who had raised it here, I fear that it would have become a principle and that only now we are all beginning to think about how to do better, so that the funds that we can put into health care are put there with greater wisdom and thinking ability beyond just: now we have money, so let's spend them quickly. Because the criteria, as they are written there, are basically acceptable to almost all applications, so in the end, the time really becomes decisive. The fact that the Minister of Regional Development here confirmed that there were banned robots, they probably didn't do it completely head-on. You had to assume that you would get into a situation, that basically everyone would succeed. The list of those to whom it was addressed is in the basic material of the challenge. Everyone knew that they essentially fit the conditions, because they're wide enough, and the need is so huge that everyone would comply. The Ministry of Regional Development wanted to divide the funds as quickly as possible, so it had to assume that the time would eventually be decisive. And that's what we're criticizing, because that's not how it should be. If the regions are more intensively involved today, that is good, but I would ask the Ministry of Health to involve health insurance companies as well as a debate on what we will continue to support, modernise, or expand the range of health care on the basis of the new experience that we have in order to get into the sustainable state of these new investments and not get into the situation that we will burden the budgets of the individual health establishments by failing to find financial resources to further finance those modernised parts of hospitals. That would be a terrible mistake, because then we would be facing an almost unsolvable situation. And I think that responsible funding would require that way. [[10.20 hours]] What Mr Profant said, I think he is very right about it, that pouring 100% of the subsidies without any economic justification is nonsense and will actually lead to a waste that we cannot afford in the health sector, and I believe we do not want to. It's a good thing there are some financial resources here, so let's use them conceptually and not the way it happened in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u43	I thank Mr Bendl. Madam Secretary Klára Dostálová, then colleague Profant, then next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u44	I just have a brief answer to Mr Pre-Lecturer, Mr Bendl. It's not true, we evaluate economic indicators. So just the criterion, the cost-benefit analysis is evaluated, we evaluate expenditure on the main activities in the budget corresponding to market prices. We also assess whether 85 percent of eligible expenditure goes to the main project activities as such. The previous speaker, Mrs Richterová, has confirmed that sustainability is being evaluated there, that is, the need, of course, the position of the Instrument Commission and so on. And what you said about whether the insurance companies might be involved, they were already involved in the conceptual group, that is, they were actually involved in setting the individual criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. A real comment by my colleague Bendl. No, it's okay. In that case, colleague Profant and then colleague Kaňkovský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'll go back to the exchange. It is also always necessary for these criteria how they will be evaluated, which we have not yet seen, because the evaluations are not out, applicants have not received them. We see that there is a criterion: the results of the project are sustainable. We know that in European projects it was almost all of them, but we know about a lot of projects where it was not followed, or it was followed in a very special way. We've known these cases a long time ago, but it's always a matter of how well it's judged, how strictly it's judged. So that's something else we don't know. That's why I didn't do so much here, but I'd like to point it out. And now for the Minister's answer. I'm really glad we got along with this thing. I really think there's a rather toxic environment there, even if nothing happens. I will be happy to work together to remedy this, although I see here the main role of the Núkib, which should chop up such things, and especially at present there is probably the only state institution with the expertise to chop it up. And I also wanted to publicly thank the captains, who really played their roles very well, cooperated, acted and had a very constructive approach to solving the matter. As far as I know, they offered their own involvement, and so on, to get to their colleagues, they were simply trying to make sure that the finances for health care were provided in their regions, which is, of course, good and commendable. Of the people I worked with, I would especially like to thank Mr. Governor Martin Půta of the Liberec Region, who really helped me look into this issue, and we have clarified what is wrong there, what is not wrong there, what is real, what is not real. So thank you for that, and thank you for that, and I'd be happy to work with you on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u47	I thank my colleague Profant. My colleague Kaňkovský will wait because Mrs Procházková has a point of fact. Before I give her my word, I state Mr Pavel Plzák's apology, Mr Rakušan and Mrs Kovářová. Now, Mrs Věra Procházková, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, everyone. I really didn't do it very long. When I hear here we're arguing about how we're gonna build new buildings and we're gonna have new machines and so on, just a little remark: Who's gonna work on them, who's gonna work on it? So we don't forget the staff, 'cause we can't do it without him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for the factual remark made by Mrs Procházková, who was factual and factual. My colleague Kaňkovský. You have the floor, then Mr. Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u50	Good morning again. I'd like to thank my colleague. Procházková behind her very factual and important remark. Of course, we need the best possible environment and the best equipment in hospitals, but the biggest problem that awaits us in health care in the near future is the very staff. So thank you. Otherwise, I'd like to draw the debate for us today. I want to thank the Minister. Dostálová, that in the meantime, when the first round actually took place here, and that is what Mr Stanjura opened up here, there were a number of factual steps and that the problem, which, at the time we drew attention to him, was really big and woke up a huge wave of disgust in a number of regions, that it had somehow shifted. However, I do not think, as Mr. President Vondrák mentioned here, that today's discussion is useless. I don't think she's useless. And I want to thank him, too, for being one of the captains who was very constructive about it. But why I don't think this discussion tonight is useless. In those regions of those applicants, people who have spent months preparing projects, the taste of the first round of applications is really so far. It's a certain precedent for the other requests, for the other challenges that will take place. And if we clear this up today, and if we tell each other which steps were wrong, and we avoid some of those risk factors, I don't think we're gonna be standing here the next time, and we're really gonna save that time. I would just like to draw attention to some of the critical points that are raised by, for example, IT specialists from hospitals, from regions, those who actually dealt with the application. For example, there was a suspicion that some of the applicants were in direct contact with the administration company. That suspicion is hanging in the air here, and I would like to ask the Minister, in cooperation with the Núkib, to refute that suspicion. Because if that were true, that's a major problem. So it's one of those things that just hangs in the air in those hospitals and those regions, and it's necessary to know clearly whether or not it was, and if it were, to prevent this from happening in the event of further requests. Doubts are also about the reaction time of the system that the administration company had, because as we were able to see the screen of the received applications, this does not correspond to the announced reaction time of the particular software. This is also a significant doubt that brings uncertainty into whether, at least on this page, the receipt of applications was appropriate. I'll mention the so-called conceptual group. It is very good that today the officials, regional representatives are intensively negotiating with the MMR and the Ministry of Health, but in the future for other projects, and it may not only concern health care, it would be good to actually be discussed in advance, to avoid sitting here right now, and we will be saying to ourselves: we have 19 billion applications, we can distribute 8 at this point, then maybe we will add 6 to that, but we will still miss something. This really means that the conditions are set so that there is a real chance of covering the entire spectrum of needs, both in terms of the real medical need and regional need. And here again I will follow up on my dear colleague Procházková, it is necessary to take this into the context of the personnel equipment and what we are really able to use in individual regions and individual hospitals afterwards. This means that these are some of the notes and some of the question marks that are still here, and I will be happy to have the secretary fill them in for the next few weeks. And I believe that this will be a very important factor for the other challenges that await us and that we will no longer have to deal with any further doubts in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Now the factual remarks first of all to Mr Válek and then to Mr Profant. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that we are moving towards a resolution, and I thank you very much for your assistance to the Member for the staff, and that is exactly what the Minister said, that is the instrument committee. These are the authorities that do a great deal of work without entitlement to pay. The Instrumental Commission is a typical body and expert company in the Instrumental Commission, and not only those, take into account the personnel use of the instruments. As a radiologist, I have to say, there's nothing sadder than buying a CT device from the state budget, an MRI, and the machine is used for one, two, three hours a day, it's not used 24 hours a day. The hospital that wants to buy it or the facility promises to have enough staff, and it's a lie. Nothing bothers me personally as much as the radiologists who say they're working on ten workplaces at once, and I'm talking to my own ranks, and I'm willing to name it, but I'm not gonna do it. I consider it ruthlessness, and the instrument committee should be the one to keep an eye on it so that the machine, which is being paid out of all of us's money, is really, really being consistently used, and that's the end of it. However, I would like - and that was why I volunteered - and thank you through your, Mr President, Member, because she has led me to remember the companies that will be supplied by the REACT devices, because many of these devices actually exhaust the entire production capacity of some companies. Therefore, these decisions need to be made as quickly as possible so that the content of the project can be fulfilled and the instrument delivered in time, as the individual projects deserve. So let's not forget that it doesn't happen that there will be little time for everything and it won't be possible to deliver the machines. It's not just heavy instrumentation. Let's not forget it, and let's keep it in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u53	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek and I have no application for a debate. I don't even see anybody from around here. I'm done with the debate. I can still read Mr Holomčík's apologies for his work for the whole day. And after the end of the debate, I ask about the final words. Madam Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? No. I am opening the debate in detail and the rapporteur, Mr Vlastimil Válek, is ready for his reporting duty and will introduce us to the motion for a resolution. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the motion for a resolution, which I also discussed with the Minister, and agreed with him. I already mentioned it at the beginning of this point, so now I'd just sum it up. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government not later than 15 June 2021 - this is the date when the variable week starts and the meeting is likely - to examine the procedure for entering medical facilities into the IROP competition and whether some health service providers have not benefited. - It's happening and it's happening. It informed the Chamber of Deputies and published a definitive backbone network of health establishments with a taxative list of facilities belonging to this network. - Which the Minister of Health said is no problem. She informed the Chamber of Deputies about the criteria on which individual projects will be selected. - Which we talked about was a match. She informed the Chamber of Deputies, as will be taken into account in the selection of how intensively individual facilities were involved in the care of the sick with the covid. - I think it's a criterion that should help the regions and others in some ways, let's say, when I say this, non-sternal medical devices from some parts I don't say eliminate, but prefer, or do not prefer. Finally, last item: Inform the Chamber of Deputies how Regeneron's stocks in FN Brno and FN Motol will be dealt with. - Because if they're not solved, they're basically not able to have the funds to participate. And we have to sort this out, because it's really a big amount of money. I therefore propose these five points in the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, so I am ending the debate in detail. I ask you one more time about the final words. Madam Secretary, is he interested in a detailed debate? [[No.]] And I'm going to ask my colleague Válek whether he's proposing a vote after points or suddenly en bloc all five points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u56	I think we can vote en bloc. I hope there is a consensus on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-001-001.u57	No one objects to the vote on those five points en bloc? No, there is no objection to the vote en bloc. Well, in that case, there is no other motion for a vote. Does anyone want to read the motion for a resolution one more time, or did everyone understand it? He doesn't. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion for a resolution in the vote number 3, which I will start as soon as the number of entries is settled. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 3 106 present, for 105, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 1. We will continue with item number 2, which is according to the approved agenda of the meeting
