ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u1	332. Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended /house print 317/ - third reading I ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff and... Yes, for the draftsman of Mrs Aulická, and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Petr Beitl. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the Press 317/6, which was delivered on 12 February 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as a House press 317/7. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. You're interested in getting off. Then please, Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay you, I think we all know what we are going to talk about today - five weeks' leave for all the employees - and I would like to see a real change today or a third reading of our proposal. So thank you for us so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u3	I am opening a debate to which four Members have so far signed up, the first to speak is Mr Stanislav Grospič. He is not here, so the next one will be Mrs Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to support this amendment. I support five weeks of leave in the long run. I believe that five weeks of vacation in our Czech Republic have the opportunity to use a large part of our employees and employees as an employee benefit in various professions or sectors. I think that in 2021 it is fair that we make five weeks a standard, something related to evaluated and motivated work, because, of course, employees and employees, if they have space to rest and have space to gain new power, this is of course beneficial not only to them, but also to the company, the team, the motivated team, and the team that is ready to do the best. This is how I look at five weeks of vacation, and I believe, colleagues - I will certainly vote in favour - that five weeks of vacation will be agreed by our House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u5	Mr Petr Gazdík, on the point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a very godly purpose, which we want to approve here, but it requires at least one member of the government and is not present. So I'm asking as Vice-President of the Mayors' Club and Independents for a 20-minute recess for a meeting due to the absence of members of the government. It's 12.53, so please take a break until 13.15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u7	Okay. So I'm declaring a break at Stan's request, you said? [[Member Gazdík: 20 minutes.]] 20 minutes, so it's 1:15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Mr Minister. We will continue the negotiations that we have interrupted due to the absence of members of the government. We interrupted them in the debate. We are discussing Parliament's press 317 at third reading. Mr Beitl is now in the debate. Ambassador Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Ambassador Beitl! It is entered in the debate. He's not interested? We're so far away. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u9	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a five-week holiday clause, namely an increase in the existing four weeks by one. At a time when we are dealing with this point, which will end primarily in the middle and smaller business companies in the Czech Republic, these companies are dealing with really different things. It solves the fatal problems of its companies in connection with the Coronavirus and solves its future, which they count for weeks and months. When I look at the correspondence that I get, they state the state of state aid at this point. The Antivirus subsidy, which has been said here many times, officially until the end of April, no one knows what will happen next. Maybe the secretary would know she could give them hope, but there's no official information. I don't know if you're aware that one of the conditions when a company wants Antivirus support has to sign off on not releasing employees for the next three months. Entrepreneurs sign these statements in a desperate situation, but they don't even know if they're gonna get the support again for the next three months, so they're really down and basically desperate is rising. Other grant titles, grants COVID - Rent, Challenge 3. The last support for the 10th, 11th, 12th month of 2020, no one knows anything. COVID subsidy - Gastro - Closed establishments, last aid for October, November, December, beginning of January did not come again, no one knows anything. subsidy COVID - Accommodation II, again did not come, no one knows anything. And as I said before, at this point, we are burdening the business sector with other burdens. It used to be a good habit that similar topics were discussed in tripartite and the tripartite parties tried to reach agreement. In this case, there was no such act, and this did not happen because the petitioners of this law know well that they would not receive aid in tripartite. I would now like to give you the opinion of those who have something to say about the matter and whose voices have not yet been heard. The opinions I'm going to read to you are not from the current crisis period, but they're from 2018, 2019, when businessmen thought everything would go linearly and that the state they're in today can never show up. First, I will read the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce: "The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic recommends that the Government of the Czech Republic adopt on the proposal of Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas and Pavel Kováčik for the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, disagreeable opinion. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic resolutely rejects the proposal to amend the Labour Code, the essence of which is to increase the entitlement to leave from the current four weeks to five weeks. The explanatory memorandum to the proposal states that the aim is to eliminate the inequality of workers in terms of entitlement to leave, as the employees whose employer is defined in § 109 para. 3, this is a state, a territorial self-governing unit, a state fund, a school legal entity established by the Ministry of Education and Sports or a local authority in total or a voluntary union of municipalities, a contribution organisation, a regional cohesion council, employees of all these organisations are entitled to five weeks' leave. However, this reason cannot reasonably be accepted for several reasons. For one thing, it should be noted that labour law is part of civil law, and even if the party's contractual freedom is limited by the adoption of the principle of protection of the weaker party, that is the employee, it needs to include institutes and instruments which give both parties the possibility of a certain choice. The length of leave of such an institute is to a certain extent. [[13.20 hours]] The basic holiday period in the Czech Labour Code of four weeks is completely in order from the point of view of international conventions and European Union law. International Labour Organisation Convention number 132 on paid leave published under number 229/1998 Coll. provides for a minimum of three weeks of leave per year of work. Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organisation of working time and, as the case may be, Article 7 thereof provides for a minimum staff member's entitlement to paid leave for a calendar year of four weeks. Within the EU, regulation in the Czech legal order is common, some countries have more, some as well. Some increase entitlement to leave with the number of years worked or associate it with certain types of work, i.e. similar to in the Czech Republic, for example, state employees, teachers, workers in difficult working conditions. It is good that there is a difference between the claims of employees whose employers are those referred to in § 109 para. 3, de facto State or public sector, as well as the difference in their remuneration should be maintained. It should be noted that there will be a significant increase in employers' costs at the moment when five weeks of leave are legally entitled. Already in 2017, when the same proposal was tabled in the form of an amendment to the then Chamber of Deputies to the present draft amendment to the Labour Code, the analysts of the Chamber of Commerce made an estimate of the costs for employers and calculated it at CZK 28 billion per year. We are talking about 2018, when this amount was fixed. Given that there has been an increase in wages since March 2017, this amount can be expected to be even higher. Employers need tools for the acquisition and maintenance of employees that they can use effectively for these results depending on their economic results. At the moment, when workers are absent from the labour market, this need is even more recent. These tools include employee benefits such as sick days, holidays beyond the law, study leave and more. At the moment when the state makes these benefits claims for all employees, it limits the competition of employers on the labour market. Cumulation of the increase in the cost of employees that is currently taking place - the abolition of the time of the card, the increase in minimum wages - increases the cost of work, limits competition in the labour market and, overall, creates an excessive pressure on freedom of business. In addition, it will have adverse effects on employers in the non-profit-making state sector, including those who employ people with changed skills. So once again, for all these reasons, the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic fundamentally disagrees with the Members proposed by the amendment." The next opinion is the opinion of the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions of the Czech Republic. Again, I quote: "In the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, we received the material proposed by Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulickáý Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas and Pavel Kováčik for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code. The following fundamental comment is made on this proposal by the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions of the Czech Republic. Following this proposal, we consider this primarily non-systemic, when there was currently a commentary procedure on the Government's draft amendment to the Labour Code. Therefore, we do not recommend supporting sub-proposals outside the government proposal. Members may apply their proposals when discussing government amendments. We believe that entrepreneurs should be left with the possibility of extending their leave to the collective agreement, taking into account the possibility of granting benefits to employees through sick days. At the same time, we note that the implementation of the proposed proposal would make the long-term problem of agriculture very much more difficult in taking leave. Even under current legislation during four weeks of legal leave, entrepreneurs in agriculture face the problem of taking legal leave each year. The reason for this is not only the nature of agricultural production, its seasonality, but above all the lack of interest and the unwillingness of employees themselves to spend their legal leave. As mentioned above, we consider that, in terms of practice for both sides of the employment relationship, existing legislation is more acceptable, which has a longer period of leave with the exception of the provisions of § 109 para. 3 The Labour Code and teaching staff and academic staff of universities allow. In the Department of Agriculture, this option is used in the long term and annually by giving higher-level collective agreements to subjects for whom it is binding the option of selection - either a five-week vacation or a four-week holiday, together with a fixed financial bonus. However, even with this adjustment, the problem mentioned above persists, this is the already mentioned absence of leave. This fact then leads a number of business entities to circumvent the law. In our opinion, the issue of the length of leave is one of many areas where it would be desirable and beneficial to use the collective bargaining institute and collective agreements in a much higher extent as such, corporate and higher degree. The problem of leave is all the more pronounced that existing legislation does not allow the possibility of reimbursement of unused leave except for termination of employment relationship. In the above sense, therefore, it cannot be agreed with the argument in the explanatory memorandum that the proposed adjustment does not entail any negative effects. Conclusion. The proposed legislation in the form of an extension of legal leave will only multiply cases of circumvention, with no improvement for employees in this matter, on the contrary, making the situation worse for them. This conclusion applies fully to the agricultural sector, but we believe that the negative effects will be even wider." [[13.30 hours]] The next opinion is the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade: "The Ministry of Industry and Trade is expressing a disagreeable opinion on the above material, for these reasons in particular. Any new legislation and legislation on the issue of entitlement to leave should be preceded by expert discussions and any draft law should be implemented on the basis of a deeper economic analysis.' Again, the material doesn't contain anything like that. "In addition to the voluntary extension of leave, employers can currently benefit from a number of tax advantages, such as education, catering, leisure benefits, overhead tickets, donations up to CZK 2,000 per year, temporary accommodation up to CZK 3,500 per month, pension or life insurance up to CZK 50,000 per year, allowance on work trips, allowances for admission, replacement for wear on own tools, using the home office, personal protective equipment, including a contribution to their maintenance. The introduction of this institute is recommended to maintain collective bargaining and contractual relations. Recently, the business environment has been exposed to a number of upcoming changes with many negative impacts and regulations, such as raising the minimum wage, abolishing the time of quarantine, increasing the administrative burden on employers in connection with executions, and yet another problem is the lack of the necessary professions in the labour market. At present, the lack of human resources is sometimes addressed by employing employees who are subject to execution, who are in execution or are auditioned for it. This once again increases the administrative demands of entrepreneurs. Conclusion. The Ministry of Industry and Trade recommends the adoption of a dissenting opinion on the above bill.' The next opinion is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance: "The Ministry of Finance proposes that the Government should give a disagreeable opinion on the proposal, in particular for the following reasons. We do not agree with the position set out in the explanatory memorandum that the envisaged proposal will not have significant effects on the business environment. According to estimates by the Chamber of Commerce, employers' costs would increase by at least CZK 28 billion, which we consider to be a relatively significant impact. The proposed amendment does not address the position of small and medium-sized enterprises which would have to cope with the increase in costs related to the extension of the entitlement to leave of their employees. In the current economic situation, which is accompanied by a sensitive shortage of workers and a considerable volume of contracts, we consider it inappropriate to reduce the working hours of employees. Although many firms in the payroll sector are already applying five weeks' holiday, 34.4 % in 2016 according to TREXIMA's survey, especially for small and medium-sized companies, there may be relevant reasons for shorter holidays. The extension of leave could be reflected in the reduction of cash and non-cash benefits for employees of these companies, because these companies will try to reduce the negative impact on their costs." That was, therefore, the views of key partners who should be involved in such discussions. I will repeat once again that these opinions come from 2018, 2019 and absolutely do not reflect the present catastrophic situation in which Czech companies are now present. If I devote myself to the legal holiday period, allow me another overview, which describes how vacations are treated in different countries of the European Union. The length of paid leave is regulated by the International Labour Organisation Convention number 132 on paid leave from 1970. This Convention lays down the basic principles governing the adjustment of paid leave. The minimum period of paid leave shall be three weeks per year, the minimum period of work necessary for entitlement to leave may be fixed. The person taking leave shall be entitled to his normal or average wage, including the corresponding cash compensation for any part of the salary paid in kind, which is not a permanent payment due to the person concerned regardless of whether he is on leave or not. The division of leave into parts is possible and the entitlement to leave cannot be waived. What is the regulation at European Union level? The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states in Article 31 that each worker has the right to maximum working time, daily and weekly rest and annual paid leave. With regard to the regulation of working time and leave, this is working conditions, Member States share competence with the European Union within the meaning of Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The specific arrangements for paid leave are laid down in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of the regulation of the legal period. Article 7 of the Directive provides that - first, Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that each worker is entitled to paid leave for a calendar year of at least four weeks in accordance with the conditions for obtaining and granting such leave provided for by national law or practice. Secondly, the minimum period of paid leave per calendar year cannot be replaced by a financial compensation except in cases of termination of employment. All this information shows what has already been said in one of the comments that the existing holiday regime in the Czech Republic has no problem with the rights of the European Union. Adjustment of the length and payment of leave in the Member States of the European Union: the directive provides for a minimum period of paid leave, but allows Member States to provide for a longer minimum period of paid leave or, where appropriate, to allow employers to grant longer periods of paid leave on the basis of collective and individual employee agreements. Again, the issue with which Czech labour law is in agreement. Which countries in Europe have vacations longer than 20 days: 22 days Portugal, 24 days Belgium, Germany, 25 days Denmark, France, Luxembourg, Sweden, 28 days Estonia, United Kingdom, 30 days Spain, Austria, Finland. It is less than half of the European Union's countries, but this brief overview will not allow us to look into the whole depth of employment relations in individual countries to check whether the increase in leave is offset, on the other hand, by a disadvantage for employees in any other area. Hungary increases the number of days of leave depending on the number of years worked. For workers over 25 years of age, the basic holiday period of 20 days is increased by one day, over 28 years by two days, over 31 years by three days, for workers under 45 years by another day for every two years and for workers over 45 years by 10 working days. Determination of the amount of paid leave: remuneration for paid leave is paid by the employer. This is a leave granted by the employer to the employee and the legal regulation only lays down minimum parameters. In their legislative adaptations, EU Member States use deadlines as an employee's average wage, a normal weekly rate or an average monthly remuneration to determine the amount of paid leave. The directive does not specify the individual components of the remuneration for work to be included in the calculation of the remuneration. On this point, the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, in its Williams decision, provided that the employee is entitled not only to the basic salary but also to all the elements of the remuneration for work related to the performance of the work and which are included in the calculation of his total remuneration. The legislation in Germany, Ireland, France and Hungary directly provides that the employee has the right to include both fixed and variable components of the salary, and the arrangements in Belgium, France and Sweden provide that he also has the right to receive other benefits. In Poland, these benefits are included in the calculation if the calculated holiday remuneration differs significantly from the normal income. As regards the determination of the period from which the remuneration for paid leave is calculated in the form of an average, Belgium, France, Sweden and Poland calculate this average over the 12 preceding months. In Germany, the remuneration is calculated for a period of 13 weeks, in Luxembourg, Hungary, Poland, Romania for a period of three months. In Bulgaria, the remuneration is fixed on the basis of the salary paid in the previous month. [[13.40 hours]] This was therefore information on how the holiday is viewed by European law. In our country, once again, the current situation is that only some companies provide five weeks of vacation. Some employees are entitled to higher holiday rates by law and are mainly teachers and academic staff of universities. For five weeks, those whose remuneration is dependent on the State budget are specifically defined in Section 109 (1) of the EEA Agreement. 3, and they are national employees, local authorities, state funds, some state contribution organisations and employees of regional councils of the cohesion regions. Defenders of the bill point out that current legislation damages some employees, but it is important to point out that we have a really free labour market where different employers in place and in time come up with various wages and benefits. It is up to the free will of each job applicant to what form of remuneration he prefers. For example, wage levels in the capital and the rest of the Republic can be a specific example of the pay gap. Will we next have a tendency to compare these wage levels and set wage tables for the whole Republic? These attempts at equality in the field of rewards, and I consider the offer of free paid days to be a reward, belong rather to the egalitarian socialist world. I've already enjoyed mine in this world, and I certainly don't want to go back to it. If anyone is talking about five weeks of vacation for all, it is also necessary to mention a very large group of businessmen. These people don't know the word "holiday," and they have to make their own reserve for every day. Therefore, if the appellants want the same conditions for all, they should propose a tax bonus as part of the material we are discussing, which would guarantee this advantage for those who are not employed. This is the tightening of the argument ad absurdum. Although it seems to many that the approval of other public holidays or the extension of vacations is a positive thing worthy of support, it should be pointed out that there is a large group of residents of our country who do not have that view. This group is made up of entrepreneurs or, if you like, employers. The year has about 250 working days, and if we move to the amendment of the law, i.e. 25 days of vacation, we can simply say that every company and businessman will need one for every ten people involved in the work of one who hides the other's vacations. That's clear math. The Chamber of Commerce estimated the impact of extending the holiday to the business sector at some point in 2018 to CZK 28 billion. The entire cost goes to the detriment of employers without any bonus and directly damages their competitiveness on a European and global scale. Worst of all, this proposal actually comes at a time when the Corona crisis has put the business sector in the worst situation since 1989. It comes at a time when state finances are rushing into once unimaginable deficits, and there is a loud talk of an upcoming situation where there will be a need to step on the debt brake. The postponement of the current amendment to the Act on the Year is merely an alibi gesture in this situation. Money isn't born in the Ministry, or in the post office, or in an ATM. Each crown of wage cargo in the private sector must be supported by work and business effort. Please let us not complicate the work of entrepreneurs with similar changes in laws. Please let those who make this effort every day decide which of the bonuses they will choose when creating their personnel strategy and remuneration strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u10	Thank you. We will continue the debate. The next is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mr Bauer will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u11	Thank you, Mr President, dear Government, Madam Members. I am certainly aware of the current situation in companies, in the business sector, which is not simple. But if you don't mind, I look as a Social Democrat at these matters mostly from the point of view of employees. From the point of view of the staff, the proposal to extend the vacation to five weeks of recovery is positive. Social democracy has long sought an extension of the holiday, and I am really glad that we have this proposal here. We didn't bring it just because there hasn't been a coalition agreement on it, or a consensus between the tripartite partners. However, as a social democracy in the long run, trade unions have long called for additional leave to be granted to all employees. The public administration, including hospitals, is already on vacation for five weeks. Finally, a colleague Beitl's got it all figured out. I am convinced that those who are standing somewhere near the belt, at the production lines, doing monotonous work with their hands or working in difficult conditions, those who work in the service and do not have that advantage may need rest even more than the sphere that has been granted to them for five weeks. They just need to shut down for a while. A responsible employer, like Mr Baťa, realizes that a person who is fine, who is rested, is the most valuable worker, the employee he has in the company. It is far more valuable to the company and it is the one that will ensure its prosperity. And that is true, colleagues and colleagues, about shortening the working time fund in general. There are analyses that most employees, except, of course, those who work in the task, that most employees in the time wage and in six hours of work will perform almost the same performance as in today's eight and a half hours. We need to know that we need to realize if we can look a little bit into the future, that redistribution of work is a solution that sooner or later we will have to accept. This requires digitization, labour market changes, rapid technological developments. The long-term goal, the solution to maintaining social cohesion, but also what is called work-life balance, i.e. the reconciliation of family and working life, the resolution of family situations, i.e. the higher quality of life, is, in my view, the reduction of the working-time fund to 30 hours a week. For those who are collapsing at this point, and I hear it here, because they say there aren't enough people even now, I remind you that we still have two large groups of people in society, and often highly qualified, who remain outside the labour market just because they aren't... they can't accept those eight and a half hours a day. They are mothers, mostly with young children, but they are also - I will use the term young seniors - i.e. seniors 65 or even better 60+, who, although often highly qualified, remain at home because they still do not know reduced jobs in companies. And those 8.5 hours are really hard for them, or they can't handle it with those little kids. But that would be a long debate. And I don't want to prolong the show anymore. [[13.50 hours]] However, the shortening of working time is certainly a topic that we will have to focus very intensively on and very soon. Let us now compare at least the conditions of the employees for taking leave and support the proposal to increase the holiday for five weeks for all. And I'm still taking the liberty of making a comment. My esteemed colleague Beitl here spoke of numbers, about the cost being 28 billion. If we compare it with the estimated 300 billion that are derived from our economy on dividends, I think our economy can take it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the 21st century, and the employees should all have the same conditions. I intercede for the approval of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u12	Thank you. We will continue the debate. The first is here, with Mrs Langšádlová's point of fact, and then she declared herself to me with the priority right of President Pekarová, then Mr Bauer. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am very sorry for the constant comparison of what is worth on other vacations, for example, with dividends. I have also met very often here with the fact that some colleagues and even members of the government, even the Prime Minister, have used it several times on the European Committee, even comparing income, dividends with what we are getting and taking into the European budget. We're an open country that wasn't economically good 30 years ago. And we are countries where investors have simply come, yes, and they have come mostly, and that is a good thing, especially from Western countries, from Western European countries, from the United States. And it is perfectly natural that if someone invests, invests in capacity, invests in Czech companies, so it is perfectly natural that every investor has some income and that they simply have the right to convert those revenues. And, of course, we should try to reinvest these funds in the Czech Republic so that these revenues contribute to improving technologies, so that these returns are simply a way forward for all of us to create jobs. But I think that constantly attacking that someone has some revenue is actually against the principles and interests of the Czech Republic. Thank you. Someone left their cell phone here. I don't know, colleague? [[- Not me.]] Someone's got a cell phone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u14	Okay, thank you for alerting me of loss and discovery. That was a factual point. Now, therefore, with the priority right of Mrs Pekarová in the remaining seven minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u15	Thank you for the floor. I don't even think I'm gonna exhaust them, because I think this debate here at the moment we're having it, even though there's not much of us here anymore, who's gonna be running it, is just completely inappropriately timed. This proposal, at this time of economic crisis, which we are experiencing and are going to be experiencing for a long time, let us not paint anything pink, miss absolutely what is real. Let's get this straight. If the impacts of CZK 28 billion are calculated by the Chamber of Commerce, CZK 28 billion, it is simply a gift even in good times. But in these times, when many here are balancing on the edge of the abyss, when many are already behind it, they will never open their premises again, so talk about something that will still be able to do as another tap, it's just, don't be mad at me, total ignorance about the present. No one can be serious. That's just something that we can never support, because in the finals, those who put forwards and supporters around here are going to pay the most. Who do you think these employers are gonna have to save money on? What's the easiest thing to do? In addition to investments that would modernise their production, modernise their business, keep them competitive, so it will, of course, be up to people. They're gonna have to lay off. So what's better? Have a job or not have a job at all? That's easy, so let's choose. It's just something we shouldn't have let go of today. We insist on a motion to reject this law, this amendment to the law. And I think we should step out of some kind of delusion that this is relevant to debate at this time. I understand that this is the programme objective of some parties here in the House, which they have in the long run, but it is simply necessary to look at this through the optics of 2021, where we have the effects of a global pandemic on the economy of our country for a year, as other countries are experiencing it. I think that in this case, we need to realize that the costs are so huge, that it really just helps a lot to shut the firm down completely, dissolve the places, and these people end up where? Well, at the employment offices! And they'll cost the state, who else. So let's face it, let's face it, that's how it is. And that's why we propose to reject, even though, of course, in good times, let's discuss it again, but I think that will be in a few years. So at this time, let's just leave this delusion, let's leave it completely, let's not live in it, and let's not really keep people in it that might hear it. Let's tell them fair and square that it could be a complete threat to their jobs, that they might not find the job, that they won't have it anymore. That's fair enough to tell them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u16	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Of course, we will, if necessary, vote after the rejection. Now, Mr Bauer in the remaining minutes. Then again, it would be Mr Grospič's turn, who is not present. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u17	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I am at this point, because my contribution is a little longer than time, I will not use it. However, I will use my right as Vice-President of the Club of Deputies to ask you for a three-minute break, which is practically until the end of today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-003-332.u18	Thank you. I understand the request. So if no one objects, I will grant this request. At the same time, I note that it will no longer be possible to continue the discussion of this proposal, because the time for third readings will expire. I have no choice but to interrupt this point. After third readings, we could theoretically deal with other points, but it is customary to end the House's negotiations at this time. I have not received any agreement that alters this, and given the situation in the hall I see no other way than to interrupt the 87th meeting until Tuesday 9 March, when we will continue either after the end of the extraordinary 90th meeting, which is included there at 14 o'clock, we should continue directly by block of first reading, because the crisis law that is included there has been announced that it will be withdrawn. So we'll discuss first reading on Tuesday. Thank you and have a nice weekend.
