ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u1	11. Proposal for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies On this point, you received the electoral commission resolution number 8 of 8 November 2021. I ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u2	Good evening now, honourable Members of the Government, Madam President, honourable Members. We are opening - as has been announced - another election point, and it is the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. We have also announced a deadline to the Election Commission by this Monday, 8 November 2021, as well as the previous points within 17 hours. The electoral committee has discussed the proposals delivered by the MPs after 6 p.m. and adopted its resolution number 8, which was immediately sent to the members of the MPs, and is also available to you in front of you. To that end, I add that now, a little while ago, the Chamber of Deputies, with its resolution, has set the number of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies at six. Members' clubs have been proposed by these candidates for Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I will present them in alphabetical order: Jan Bartošek, proposed by the coalition of SPOLU, Věra Kovářová, proposed by Pirates and Mayors, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, proposed by the movement YES, Tomio Okamura, designed by the SPD, Olga Richterová, proposed by the Pirates and Mayors, Jan Skopeček, proposed by the coalition of SPOLU, and Radek Vondráček, proposed by the movement YES. These proposals, these nominations of the electoral commission, were reflected in its resolution number 8 of 8 November 2021. According to the alphabet and with the order number, you will also have these candidates on the ballot you use for the vote, and I will mention it precisely because of any nullity of the ballots: please be really careful because you will mark up to six names with a ring if you choose to do so, and one name with a cross. And here I am supplementing or specifying: you do not have to vote for all six names. There's the word, to the max, which means you can give your support to one or six candidates with a positive choice. Now, Madam President, I ask you to open the debate. I'd repeat the techniques just before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you and I am opening up a debate in which I again do not see an enlisted person - I see the President of Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The SPD movement has decided to nominate its President Tomio Okamura for this election as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. We have often seen hateful statements by politicians and media who reject the representatives of SPD members in the House's leadership. Chairman TOP 09 said to the media, and I quote: "We have never voted for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to represent a party that the Ministry of the Interior also calls extremist, i.e. the SPD. And nothing will change about that now." I can calm my colleague and Chairman of the TOP 09. The SPD is definitely not extremist about anything. On the contrary, it represents the views and attitudes of most citizens of this country, whether they vote for us or not. You referred, through Mr President, to the annual report by the Ministry of Interior, which maps the problems of extremism in the Czech Republic. But media extremists and politicians refer to anyone who had a different opinion, and in this respect your statement had to be rejected by the sunshine website Demagog.cz, which called this statement false. Even the Ministry of the Interior of Mr Hamáček did not dare to call the parliamentary party promoting freedom and democracy extremist. This is absolutely essential and very spicy that the views we are promoting have actually been taken over by all the parliamentary parties before the elections. The SPD is referred to as xenophobic and nationalist because it has long refused to accept illegal and culturally inadaptable migrants in the Czech Republic. However, after years of loopholes, all the parliamentary parties have joined our view. After all, today it is evident on the Belarusian-Polish border, where migration is used as a dangerous geopolitical weapon. Dear colleagues, all your representatives in public debates have declared rejection and acceptance of migrant quotas. The SPD is also one of the European Union's biggest critics, that is true, and its leadership in Brussels. We are the only political entity in favour of leaving the European Union. But once again, all parties, as you are sitting here, have agreed that Brussels and the European Union are working badly and that they are damaging our interests in many ways, whether it was a specific directive from the past or the upcoming Green Deal, which, together with all the parliamentary parties, more precisely coalitions and parties, has identified as a disaster that can cause our country and probably cause enormous billions of damage. How are we different? We all know that the king is naked and that the European Union is hurting. But while we have given up hope that it can be reformed, you have not yet reached that view. Like most topics, we're just one step ahead. What is our view that the European Union is unreformable, extremist, I do not understand. If anyone here honors democracy for you, perhaps they suspect that democracy belongs to pluralism of opinion - opinions on anything, let alone the reformability of the European Union. In fact, the Brit who came out of the EU felt the same way, for example, the Švýcar or the Nor, who did not even enter the European Union for this reason. Are Švýcar extremists? Like them, we want a non-castrated, functional referendum, the right of citizens to decide their country, just as virtually all countries of the European Union, with the exception of Cyprus and Belgium, have the right. Only you defend yourself against the promotion of democracy, i.e. the rule of citizens in your own country, the teeth of your nails. What if the citizens decided otherwise in the referendum? As far as our criticism of the state is concerned that it is not socially friendly to pensioners or families with children, or, on the contrary, that it is throwing money away for inadaptables, we have actually agreed in the course of the debates in the past. We are critical of NATO's functioning as the sole guarantor of our security. Anyone who follows the results of NATO policy in recent years must have these doubts. Anyone who sees and hears must doubt. This is not a pro-Russian attitude, it is just a perception of reality, when a security vacuum is being created and the Czech Republic can become a mere object of foreign interests as in the past. We are saying that we need closer security ties within the V4, closer and more responsible than NATO is today. For example, four pirát will have their Vice-President of the House, and it is a demonstration of tolerance that they will have it, even though the pirát on their forehead openly sympathize - and apparently cooperate - with Antifa, for example, which is not just extremist, but it is directly a terrorist organization introduced on the list of terrorist organizations of the U.S. State Department of Foreign Affairs. And of course, the extremist and terrorist organizations that the pirát work with will be far more. But well, we are tolerant and no one should punish Mr. Bartoš, who has been photographed several times with the flag of Antiphus, and his colleagues for truly extremist views. In a democracy, it's enough that citizens have stopped voting for him. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I am fully aware that functions in the House are not claimed. Unwritten rules and agreements of the Parties apply not only in this case. In fact, the division of functions is an expression of the government's relationship with the opposition, and in this case it is not necessary to use false pretexts or false dehonestation of the SPD. Yes, we SPD are authentic opposition to the majority currently declared, but the last four years have shown that, despite the ideal contradictions, we can agree on some laws and proposals here and vote together if we were convinced of the accuracy of the matter, and these things were in line with our political agenda. [[19.30 hours]] By expressing this constructive cooperation between the government and the opposition, it was also the fact that the five largest parliamentary clubs had their representative in the leadership of the House. This showed citizens that democracy is not only a conflict of opinion, but also the cooperation of the majority with the minority. It showed that the majority in the House could respect the opposition. The election of Vice-Presidents will show the citizens the essential thing. On the one hand, as the majority with its power will do, whether it will stifle the minority and, on the one hand, expand the position in the House's leadership, but only to make another trade for less successful partners. The attempts to disappear the SPD movement are based only on two motives. The first is the arrogance of power, and the second is fear. We are a folk movement that consistently defends national interest against efforts to concentrate global power and profit. We are not socialists, but we are a socially sensitive movement. We're defending conservative values. The interest of our citizens and this country comes first for us. Whoever thinks we're disappearing is deeply mistaken. We defend subjects that are of interest to people and which are legitimized as necessary. We are the same political extremists as Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk before 1918. The election of the Vice-President and the vote on SPD representatives will also show who is and who is not in the real opposition. Citizens will now see which Members belong to the government majority and, along with them, reject the representatives of over half a million voters in the leadership of the House. It is not about privileges, but about what kind of signal the House will give to voters - whether the party with the fourth largest parliamentary club is the majority of the partner for the House, or whether the change with the great Z that the coalition brings with it lies in a 100% grip on power, regardless of any opposing views. We are not afraid of the results of today's election, we are able to cope with the arrogance of power and we can also respond to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u5	Thank you and I note that I have received an apology from today's meeting apologizing until an undetermined period of time from 17.45 hours for working reasons, Jakub Michálek. We are continuing the open debate to which Mr Radek Koten is now reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u6	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I know it is quite late, but I think it is very important to express myself on this subject. We live here in some representative democracy. Personally, I think that all of us elected here were elected by the mandate of those voters who voted for us, and, of course, the SPD was elected by more than half a million voters. As we are all present here, we have made a pledge to the Member. The Member's promise is that we will defend the interests of our voters to the last breath. This is very important because we are not here to defend the interests of the European Union, the European Commission or other states. We must defend the interests of Czech citizens here, because for us the citizens of the Czech Republic should always be in the first place. The interest is clear. We're having a little energy crisis here right now. It was a long time ago. It is a time when the energy market was liberalized and private companies, which were completely out of state control, were allowed to trade in energy in our state. What are the consequences of this now? Thus consumers, for example, enjoy a full sip of Bohemia Energy. I think that the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic should really be superior to any interests of political parties, the interests of lobbyist groups and the interests of any multinational companies. I personally think that, as far as representative democracy is concerned, I think that even Mr Stanjura here spoke of the proportional representation of all parties in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The fact that, on the basis of some predictions by the Ministry of the Interior, which were previously conducted by Minister Jan Hamáček, and his tender reports on extremism and predicate hatred, so many politicians who were not involved in the Security Committee, for example from September of this year, cannot even know that the reports were written in a very thin manner and that those data that were mentioned there, such as the SPD using some sort of extremist topics, are not based on the truth. The Ministry of the Interior, led by Minister Jan Hamáček, referred to the Security Information Service report and claimed that information on extremism was included there on the impulse and on the Security Information Service reports. In September, we invited the Director of the Security Information Service, Colonel Michal Koudelka, to a meeting of the Security Committee, and he was informed on a live broadcast at the Security Committee meeting that the Home Office officials were using him as an alibi so that the SPD could present him as a party using extremist topics. I have to say, the angry Director of the Security Information Service, when he found out that a ministerial servant at the Ministry of the Interior was using him as an alibi to write nonsense about extremism and prejudice, I've never seen him in such a coincidence. So I'm really begging myself here, ladies and gentlemen, to ever again, if no one knows it, so that he's telling the media that the SPD is kind of an extremist side, because that's not really the case. I think that in this House everyone has the right to an opinion, and I will be the first to defend the right of every one of you sitting here, so I will always defend the right so that you can come out here and say your opinion, because that is the basis of parliamentary democracy. I am very glad that we are here in such a large number, because I think it is very important. And it is very important that more than half a million voters have their representatives in such an important body as the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies. If you use your arrogance of power here, because you have only 108, it will be a clear signal that all the talk you said here in the last parliamentary term about representing democracy here and being the only democratic force here in the Chamber of Deputies, it will only be a spit in the face of all the voters who voted for the SPD movement. And of course, it tells a lot about you yourselves that you just can't accept the opinion of more than half a million voters and that you just want to deny them their rights. I think that the vote of every voter in the Czech Republic has exactly the same weight, it is clear. So I'm hoping at the last minute you'll come to your senses and support our candidate for Vice-President of the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u7	Mr. Jiří Kobza is next in line with the entries. Before he comes to the counter, I would just like to point out to all the Members of Parliament that even here we are subject to a measure that we should wear a respirator or a drape in our speeches. I just want to call on you to follow this measure, please. I think it's for everyone's sake. Thank you and you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, time has progressed, and I will try to be as brief as possible. Maybe I could've taken that on a technical note. I would like to say a few words about the SPD's claim to the Vice-President's seat in the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies and the opposition of the coalition parties. We have all heard the other parties curse by respecting the results of the elections and representation in the Chamber of Deputies, and it is the first time that the candidate of the other strongest party has not been elected to the leadership of the House. We consider this to be a clear demonstration of the power to which they are entitled, of any indication that this should look different and that it should not be the representation of the parties according to the results of the elections, but were not. I think it's a petty, useless demonstration of power. Maybe somewhere in the sandbox, the gentlemen would respect it, but I don't think so in the Chamber of Deputies. Dear colleagues, do those words sound familiar to you? That is not what Mr Kobza says. That's what Mr. Petr Fiala said in an interview for News 24. 11. 2017 when it was his Vice-Presidentship in the Chamber of Deputies. Now I'm experiencing my own déjà vu, except in the reverse guard. Are we experiencing some kind of retribution for forced to remain in opposition? Once again, is there a candidate for a party with 20 mandates, which should suddenly not be entitled to the Vice-President, while a party with four retired Members has one? Is that what you want to explain to the voters? How undemocratic and how graphic a demonstration of the rolling machine of the coalition, which seems to be waiting for us here. I think the parties to the coalition should take the word democratic out of their names. It'd be fair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u9	Thank you. Your speech raised a point of fact, so I will ask you to wait for the next speaker and give the floor to Mr Hrnčíř. Mr. Ambassador, your de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to sum up what the previous speakers have said. I think there's no point in explaining that all of us sitting here represent democratic political parties in elections. I don't think the SPD movement is an extremist party. I think this doesn't belong here, that this rhetoric, the labeling should be forgiven by five-calice colleagues. When the SPD has voted for over half a million voters, we have here the representatives of 20 Members that, in the proportional system that this House represents, we just deserve a place in the House's leadership. And it's also a good signal for cooperation, because we're not going to have a good time. We are facing high inflation, we are facing economic problems, we are facing problems in the energy market, that is, we will need to work together across the political spectrum here. And I just want to remind you that even though you have a majority in the House, you didn't win the election. Most voters voted for different parties, that's something to be realized. I think it will also be good for you to work with the opposition, because the problems that we will face - I think citizens expect us all to do so, and I think that would be a good step and a good signal for you to help the SPD movement with 20 Members to elect our representative to lead the House. And our deputy is Tomio Okamura. In the words of the classic: "Stop fooling around and let's choose." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u11	Thank you for keeping time. We are now going back to the debate and Mr Jaroslav Foldyna will take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u12	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. Let me turn to you and say thank you for your opening speech, and I want to believe him. I'm like that, I always trust people when they say something. Your speech was brilliant, and he gave us an indication of how you'd like to run the House, and I don't have a problem with that. Although I didn't vote for you, I totally agree with your speech. You referred to the SPD as extremist, and therefore those members who are in this party should be extremists. Ladies and gentlemen, how extremist am I? Who are those extremists? Someone reminds me of some people who are hacking for a demonstration or some so-called SPD supporters. Personally, I wasn't close enough to figure it out right away. I hate people who express themselves by pausing or shouting things and passwords that are part of the worst of that time, World War II. Today is November 10th. We could have remembered that tonight was the last day of the crystal night. It's an infamous anniversary today. Do you know how I can be an extremist when my parents went through a concentration camp? An extremist assigned to any fascists or Nazis? My parents were both in Wiener Neustadt in the camp at trithol and ended up running away in Břeclav at the Gestapo prison. That's where the Red Army freed them, and that's probably why I'm the Russian cockroach they call me. But at the same time, I am also the son of a man who was fired from the party in 1971, and the clerk became a janitor at the cinema. I didn't even go on a school trip. I'm not complaining here, but I'm not one, and I'm never gonna get called into any extremists, no one. I'm in a party where my sidekick, Jarda Bašta, has passed through the Communist camp. You went through a communist camp, someone or your parents? You were the heroes? I met a lot of heroes in November 1989, especially five days later. That was heroes, that was even... but I don't want to remember it. I just think that we need to do everything we can to make sure we're here. We're here for our constituents, for the people of this country. I don't want to deal with political questions. You know, you often say, "We are liberal democrats." Liberal Democrats question all traditional life forms, question family, question national feelings and call all those who question their questioning extremists. Friends, it is wonderful that a liberal Democrat marks someone who questions their questioning either national identity or biological identity for being extreme. What does the SPD want so extreme that it wants a referendum? Yeah, a referendum. We joined the European Union on the basis of a referendum. That didn't bother you, that was O.K. I understand that it was a different time in 2004, and it was another European Union. Today we say: we want a referendum on the possibility, on the possibility! leaving the European Union because times have changed, and unfortunately for all of us, the European Union has also changed. The Treaty of Lisbon has changed significantly. And I'm an extremist about it? That I want democracy, that I want to give people the right to decide freely and go to the urn to throw their vote and express themselves? That the electrician... yeah, yeah, you're actually some graduate politicologists and you have those colleges, but that stupid electrician wouldn't understand? That's how I read it. That's how I read it on Twitter. I read the insults on Twitter. I'm trying not to answer them, I'm trying. Sometimes I answer them exactly the same way. I'm not gonna let anyone swear at me, insult me. [[19.50 hours]] I believe that if anyone is responsible for the tension in society, whether it's because of the economic situation or the politics or the covid, then the responsibility is here, in this room, here, where there are two hundred of us, because sometimes there are incredible rocks coming from here, whether it's about covid, whether it's about the Sudeten němec. Can I give you my opinion? Gentlemen and ladies, Sudeten Němec, let's forget it. The war is over. We will never lose the battle of Stalingrad again, and they will never win. You know what we can lose together? The battle for today and tomorrow. We will all fight for the identity of Europe. Europe is dying, Europe's birth rate is 1.6. We're dying. Europe's original population is dying out. And I'm saying that I'm talking about the extinction of Europe's indigenous population, so I'm supposed to be an extremist? Or a Russian cockroach? What am I doing with Putin? Ladies and gentlemen, I must laugh. Let's agree to do specific things. Let's deal with birth control. There's no way there's a birth without living here. There's been no talk of it in this room at all. I've been here a long time, it really hasn't been talked about. We're always talking about inadaptables, but we never gave them a chance to go to work. They were here before - for the younger ones of you, the communist times were horrible, terrible at something, they weren't so terrible at something. There were regional service businesses and there were employed people who had zero qualifications or low qualifications and their productivity was 30%, but they went to work. Today? Today it's built so... Do you know why there is no social democracy and a Communist party? They de facto fulfilled their program. Europe is socialized enough. And they turned to the original voter, the original idea that brought them here. I was here when social democracy - I don't mean like here in this room - was 32 percent when it represented people's jobs when it turned its back on people's work and began to represent some weird minorities that it defined itself. And all that work needed was for him to pay taxes and his money to pay social nonsense. Not the social service business that should be created here so that a person with low qualifications or zero qualifications can go to work or have to go to work, because if he doesn't work, he's got 2,400 living minimums. I live in an excluded locality, I don't go there looking on a bus or like some kind of car minister or spend the night there one day. I live there. I bought an apartment 150 metres from the Municipal Authority in Děčín, in a beautiful city house, and today I live in an almost excluded locality. I see it every day - those people need a job, a system, and we've never been able to offer it. There's never been any Rom or inadaptable here that made any law. They weren't here, we're responsible. We didn't give them a chance to go to work. We didn't even set the rules. If there's gonna be any choices, someone comes up with some zero tolerance-- that kind of bullshit, and I'm an extremist when I start talking about these things. I'm an extremist when I start talking about two guys and a squirrel can't have a baby. Well, I'm an extremist because some LGBTQIA community, what a letter, that different attitude, so I'm an extremist. But you know what hurts most of our fellow citizens who have a different sexual orientation? You know what hurts them the most, lesbians and homosexuals? Well, the politicization, the politicization of this asshole - Jesus Christ, I'm sorry about the word - the stupidity that came to us from the United States and came to us - the LGBTQIA community, non-binary people. Oh, my God! But beware, we invented one thing in this house: we invented a preconceived hatred. Do you think that's a paragraph? No, this is a directive both under the previous regime or under the previous regime, which says: Punish, seek a paragraph for anyone who thinks differently than official politics, you must not think like that. And I want us to have the right to speak our mind. As much as I disagree with you, I'm convinced as Voltaire, who says he wants you to have the right to say your thoughts, so I can have him. And yet it is with representation in the leadership of this House. It's part of democracy. That's not a rule of duty, that's decency. And I wish we could start a new House with this decency. Hey, thank you for not booing me. Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance brought up one point of fact. Mrs Olga Richterová, with her factual point. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Just a very brief factual one. Mrs. Romka was here. It was in the late 1990s, Mrs Monika Horáková Mihaličková. For example, he now devotes himself to supporting students from poor families and studying them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u15	Thank you. With the replacement card number 20, Mr Jan Skopeček votes. The next one is a standard debate, i.e. a general one. Mr Kolovratník has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u16	Thank you for the floor. So now I am reporting to the debate not in the position of rapporteur or chairman of the electoral committee, but of an ordinary Member. I've got two observations on the matter here, the election of the Vice-Presidents, the number you just voted on. Firstly, and that, dear citizens, is for you to remember this and calculate what new order we have and how we will save and how we will be austerity: 2013 - in the Chamber of Deputies, seven parliamentary clubs, four Vice-Presidents, 2017 - in the last period - nine clubs and five Vice-Presidents. Logically - more clubs, five Vice-Presidents. And now I will be consistent and I hold the rhetoric of Zbyněk Stanjura and a number of you, as we said today, that we have actually four clubs or four subjects, if you will, four political subjects. So 2021 - I count four subjects and six Vice-Presidents. Let us remember this, these figures, with which the emerging coalition works and calculates how economical and efficient it is. Ad 1. Ad 2. Now I'm going to ask those names, and I really don't understand it, and I'm going to beg - it's a political position - an explanation. I'm looking at the nominations of the SPOLU coalition and I understand them. President Pekarová Adamová for the top in the lead, two other subjects in the roles of Vice-Presidents, Honza Bartošek for the KDU-ČSL, Mr Skopeček for the ODS. Then there are other candidates for the YES and SPD movement. And now I'd like to ask, and I really don't understand, the Pirates and starosta' existing coalition so far. One proposal by Věra Kovářová for STAN - all right, second proposal by Mrs Olga Richterová for the Pirates. But from the public information I have, the pirát haven't decided yet. We don't know if they're gonna be in the gang after all, or if they're gonna be in the two-wheeler or if they're gonna get out of it. They're voting on how modern, digital they are on some nationwide forum for another week. And I'd like to ask the two of you now, ladies, about your attitude or your planned actions. So, Madam President, I'm asking you as representatives of the double block: if the pirát hypothetically get off that train, then you won't be two coalitions, the COO and Pirstan, but we're going to have one new opposition party with only four MPs, so if the COO continues to assume that it has a Vice-President with those four MPs, converted to a percentage of about 1.48 or so. I'm begging you for an answer. [[20.00 hours]] And, Mrs Richterová, and please, it is not personal, and I am also asking you about the political position of the pirát. I understand, and I will understand, if your party decides that you're in that group, the solidarity of five is that you want to be in charge. I respect that, I get it. But if the pirát decide - and they have the right - that they do not go into it, that they remain a separate opposition party with the number of four MPs, then I ask if you will still keep the warm place, and especially the Antibabiš theme, or if the pirát will have such strength and courage to say: Yes, we are in opposition, we are here on our own, and we are letting the place go to other interested parties. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u17	I'm afraid I don't have anyone to be replaced with, so as an experienced matador here, I'm sure you know I can't answer you, even though I've been asked. I would also like to ask you next time to address your colleagues and colleagues with my Presidency. Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera's point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u18	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Election Commission, through Madam President, I therefore believe that you are the President of the Election Commission, because the questions you are asking amaze me so much that I am wondering how many times I wonder if you are actually fulfilling the mandate you have, because that expertise does not always come from your questions. Your questions towards feelings, or the intentions of our coalition colleagues... Let's leave it to them, please, let's leave it to them, how they decide, how they will continue to consider their performances. Today it is as it is, it has been explained to you many times today. And the savings questions. They're the right questions for savings. I suspect, and if I am not mistaken - and you know this best, through Madam President, when I address you - the YES movement has been offered two posts of Vice-Presidents of the House. If you're interested in saving money and you really have savings on your mind and you have budget savings on your mind, then give up one place. Take an example, give up one Vice-President - you have two Vice-Presidents' seats, give up one. You will set an example for all of us, it will be a beautiful step, you will see that you really want the savings and the budget that you, Madam Secretary, your government, have disrupted and left in a really secluded state, so that you can at least improve that little step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Patrik Nacher is also reporting in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u20	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, once again, congratulations on your election. Now, once again, I have a few points to make. Firstly, for new Members: I think we are going exceptionally fast today. I remember that we didn't discuss the election of Vice-Presidents until Friday in the last parliamentary term, because we didn't have the deadline to sign up for those Vice-Presidents until Wednesday at 5:00 p.m., and the election didn't happen until Friday. This means that the fact that we are discussing this now and that no one is logged in is proof that I think that this is a clear friendship on our part and that no one here wants to delay anything, because in principle I do not know when it happened that the election of both the President and the Vice-Presidents would take place within one day. So much for explaining that we're going really fast. Now, a few words about the number of Vice-Presidents. At the number of six Vice-Presidents, I voted against, explain why. I remember - because I felt it sensitive last time, because I was there for the first time - that last term, even with the five Vice-Presidents, there was a criticism from the opposition, i.e. the future coalition, that the five Vice-Presidents were too many to be four. It's been four years, and suddenly there's six of them, and the number of six doesn't come out by accident. The number of six is based on the reason that there are five coalition sides, so that each of them has one in the lead plus two in the YES, and that's why they come out seven. Once again - I'm sorry, I'll look at those numbers in the table of figures - so at number seven, there's a proportional system, and of course we don't have to respect it, you can vote anything here, but if we look at the numbers that are respected in terms of members and numbers in committees, so it goes YES three, SOLU three, Pirstan one, SPD zero. That's how it comes from the table when the blocks are here, there are no individual political parties. Well, I've basically made two arguments in these debates about how to deal with it. I'd quite like to respond to them here in some way, so it doesn't stay in the air. One of them sounds - and this was said here just a moment ago on the microphone: So let the YES movement give up one place because it has two, and at that moment it will be okay. Yeah, but then there will be absolutely no relative system, and then it will meet some weird system, because actually what club - not the group anymore, but the club - beware, yeah, we do calculate the tables from coalitions, but then there are representatives of individual clubs, not coalitions. So it's such a mess that it's hard to explain to outsiders. And by the time we give up that place, it will mean that in fact every subject will have one, so the political club that has four MPs will have one representative, and the one that has seventy-two will also have one representative. It doesn't look like a relative system to me from a train, it's completely out of control. And then in that case, let's not call it a proportional system. It's some kind of legitimate response, I don't agree with it, but it's definitely not a proportional system. Then let's not play him. It is simply not possible to say in one sentence: We respect the results of the elections and the relative system, and in the other sentence to tell that the club of 72 Members will have the same representation in the leadership as the club of four Members - two of them will probably be ministers, one Vice-President of the House, one president of the club, so of the four people will have four priority rights, which I think has not yet been here. The second argument that sounded and sounded when I was in the debate, I guess in Prima, let the ANO movement pass it on to one SPD location. This was said in the debate as a response to the fact that the SPD has zero, even if it has twenty representatives. I didn't have enough to ask because we've already been disconnected, so I'm going to ask now: If it's true that the SPD doesn't have an agency in charge because it's extremist, then the moment that YES gives up in favor of the SPD, would it stop being extremist? It's not my argument, please nicely, it was said in the TV debate about proportional representation, you can go on monitoring that it was. So these are the two arguments that I've heard about the number six and about the legitimate complaint of us as the biggest club, that according to the table we think three places - although we don't want them here at the moment, there are two in the game - but that purely according to the proportional system it should be three. I understand - and it has also been said a few times - that in the past, the previous coalitions have sometimes rolled, I confess - I have not always agreed to this either, that is true. At the same time, however, this coalition clearly builds its new existence on the fact that it will behave differently, better that it will be a change for the better. That means that I expect that even if it was beautiful and it was true and it did and sometimes it did, it is so that you won't return it, you won't retaliate, and you won't behave, when I say it, completely flattened anyway, you'll behave better. It doesn't feel like it yet. Thank you for your attention and have a nice rest of the evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u21	Thank you. The next one for the debate - and so far the last one registered was the Minister and the President of the Alena Schillerová parliamentary club. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u22	Allow me, too, Madam President, to congratulate you for the first time in my presence under your Presidency. I wish you a lot of strength and fulfillment of everything you've taken because I think it's very important. Now, a few words. I didn't want to perform, but I don't like people talking about something they don't know anything about. Mr Kučera, that was up to you. Do you know this table where the proportional representation is? You do, don't you? Here we all have it. [[President: Through the President.]] I'm a member of the government. [[Sorry, sorry.]] I'm still a member of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u23	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm enjoying it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u24	But, of course, when I'm not a member of the government, I'm sure I'll keep it that way. But it's okay, it's marginary. The table clearly states what the proportional representation is. And you didn't say - Mr Patrik Nacher responded to any media appearances - you didn't talk about giving up one Vice-President's seat on behalf of the SPD, so you didn't say so, so I'm not going to comment on that. You told us to give up one Vice-President's seat - and we are entitled to three positions in the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies! That is why we have built the President - I will not deal with this now, I have spoken about this in the afternoon - and now we are entitled to two Vice-Presidents. And you say surrender. Once you're here as a coalition club, once - I don't know what I'm doing anymore, I'm losing it, but I'm going to try to figure it out, it doesn't really matter - so you're saying: a club that has four MPs - and I don't want to develop that at all now, so I don't want to delay whether it's in accordance with the generally binding laws of the establishment of such a club, so we've been calling ourselves here all afternoon - so it's supposed to have one Vice-President, and another, and all less, and whoever has 72 Members, so don't? So you're denying the biggest opposition club to have two representatives with priority rights in the House's leadership. So that's your interpretation of democracy, and I'm sorry, I couldn't let that go unnoticed. And now for the messed-up finances. I'm particularly sensitive about that. When we inherited public finances, I mean the YES movement, after your founder's father - you know who I'm talking about - the debt was much higher than it was now when we handed it into the same hands as in 2013. Yes, it was 44 and some percent of GDP. Don't get behind your head, I've got the numbers in front of me. And the covid came. We kept reducing debt. We were below 30% when the covid came. You weren't here last time, you were here before. I remember you as an undersecretary, we used to go to such nutritious discussions around the EET. And now I'm studying the coalition contract. Of course, we'll see what else is in the government's statement, which will be more binding. So far, I've only studied the economic part in more detail, and I'm no longer reading what the rate of consolidation is going to be. I'm just reading this one subtle sentence: "We want to meet the Maastricht criteria as soon as possible. " The Maastricht criteria are two. The first is 60 percent of the debt. Well, that makes everyone around us a lot more, but we're gonna be at some 43 at the end of the year, maybe some change. We'll see, it looks better now after the last prediction, I'll be presenting it. And the second Maastricht criterion is 3% of GDP debt. And that's something that's coming up with a fiscal prediction, my consolidation plan, which we modified yesterday after the current macroeconomic prediction, and according to my consolidation plan - you'll have yours, and I'll follow it closely from the opposition - according to my consolidation plan, so I'll tell you, I always give two tables. Autonomous development if nothing happened at all on the expense or income side. So in 2024, when are they, if I count correctly, the next election will be 2024? 2025, so in 2024 if nothing had happened at all, it would have been 3.4 %, that is, somewhere we would have been approaching 3 % in 2025, and my consolidation plan, which I have been presenting since June, only specifying the figures according to predictions, so in 2024 it would be 2.7 % of GDP and in 2025 2.4, so far below 3 percent. The good news for the citizens is you don't have those horrible cuts anymore, but of course we'll see what's in the government statement. However, in the coalition agreement there are also interesting points on the income side, which will mean a fall in income, and they are certainly also commendable - a reduction of 2 percent of social security. Certainly, our contributions are one of the highest in the OECD. This will certainly find support - why not, because it is needed, but it is worth 35 billion. Valorisation of the discount on the taxpayer - it does not write as far as possible, except for the tax zero. I don't know if it's a zero-tax plan. Otherwise, the $3,000 that goes up this year to the taxpayer, and the $3,000 that goes up next year, so each is a $12.5 billion discount. So just to calculate and know that the consolidation will have to be even more brutal if this hole is to settle. Then you have such an interesting sentence that you want to fight the gray economy. I praise, I sign, I applaud. I've been in this field my whole life, but there are two interesting plans against that. The first plan is to cancel the EET. Cool! This is a battle with the grey economy like wine, as we say in Moravia! But there's a worse thing that's very upsetting to me, and I'm going to watch it carefully because I spent 25 years in the Financial Administration, and you can say whatever you want here, I remember the hopelessness of fighting financial officials with carousel fraud. You have parametric changes to the control report. This was the biggest whip that has destroyed carousel fraud in our country in three years, brought billions into the budget, put an end to all the different groups of entrepreneurs who, under your father's founder, let him sleep peacefully, he was calm. I told him several times in the debates, and I remember it, our minister was that there was cross-border trade in dépéháček, companies crossed borders and lured billions out of the budget. The inspection report didn't do it right, which was stated by the Attorney General, and here we can definitely agree that he is completely independent. After three years, they were destroyed, and suddenly parametric changes will be made? I don't know what it is, we'll see. I don't want to hear the grass grow, but I'm just pointing out that there is absolutely no consolidation plan in the coalition agreement, and there are other plans that will burden the budget, and I'm not saying that they're wrong, but it has to go hand in hand. And I'm not talking about any other things that maybe there's no mention of covid, but we're voting for a national bird. Have a good day!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u25	Your performance brought up two factual points. The first is Mr. Michal Kučera. Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u26	Thank you. I just have a very short reaction to the Minister's words. Madam Secretary, I'm not going to be here to discuss the economy and the budget any more, so please let's keep it up for the state budget debate, and I think we're going to have enough room there to figure out how the state spending grew, how the budget is prepared. The horror that awaits us, which you will present to us, I think will give us enough time and space to express ourselves. I hope you'll be prepared for this in a qualified manner. I'll definitely be ready, and I think there's a whole bunch of my colleagues, so we're gonna do it there, and I believe it's very qualified on your part, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u27	Thank you, too. Another in the order of factual remarks - and the last one at the moment - is Mr Ženíšek. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I don't understand why we've been giving a lecture here now about how the Minister has disrupted public finances when we're talking here or we have the election of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies before us. I think that some should make it clear whether (a) they are still in government, which they are, or whether they are in opposition, which we have been able to follow here today from other speakers. And then I don't understand why the Treasury Secretary here is telling me that there are two Maastricht criteria when there are four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u29	I also thank you for keeping time. Now in the debate, I don't have one. If this remains the case, this is the end of the debate and I would like to ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to give us further details of this election. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will now give you technical information. The election is prepared in the State acts, it will be done in the same way as you already have - I do not want to tell you to test now, but as you have already made the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies tonight. Once again, it will be more complicated in terms of the validity of ballots. I will say once again that on the ballots you will be proposed in accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary clubs and resolution number 8 of the electoral commission of 8 November a total of seven names, in alphabetical order: Jan Bartošek, Věra Kovářová, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Tomio Okamura, Olga Richterová, Jan Skopeček and Radek Vondráček. Under the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Vice-Presidents shall be elected in a majority manner and by a secret vote pursuant to Section 75 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 1. The choice takes place in no more than two rounds. It therefore takes place in the same way as before, with the exception that the Member on the ballot may, by ringing, give his consent to a maximum number of candidates which has been set, i.e. a maximum of six. You can put the number of rings lower from zero to six, not more. The remaining names, if you want your ticket to be valid, must be marked on the number before the name of the cross. Here it may be likely that we will get to the second round, so please have a little patience and an explanation for further progress. In the first round, the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies shall be elected candidates who have obtained an absolute majority of Members present at the elections. If more candidates than the number of occupied seats - that can happen - receive a majority of them who have received the highest number of votes - are elected. If there is an equalisation of votes between candidates in and outside elective positions, the choice shall be repeated among them. If the majority of the Members present do not have enough candidates to fill, the number of six seats shall be fixed, the second round of elections shall be held for vacant posts and the second round shall be followed by unelected candidates from the first round. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure in the second round, those candidates who have obtained an absolute number of votes from Members present shall be elected. If all the seats, the six seats, are not filled in the second round, the whole choice will have to be repeated. This election ends, it is always two-way, and that means that the electoral commission would once again have to announce a new deadline for the submission of proposals, again with a range of twenty-four hours between the nomination itself or the nomination and then the day of the election itself. Now, I'm setting out on the label or to make the election - we were quite quick before - 20 minutes. This means, Madam President, that this item will be interrupted by 20 minutes until 20.45, and then, please, 20 minutes to evaluate the results and sign the protocol, so that at 21.05 we can announce the results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u31	Thank you. The issue of ballots will begin immediately after the interruption of our negotiations and will take, as has been said, twenty minutes. Then we'll leave the election committee for 20 minutes to process the results of the secret ballot. We will therefore meet in the Chamber at 21.05. I am interrupting the meeting for the secret election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u32	Madame Members, I am opening the adjourned negotiations. And I give my word if he's already present... I don't see him yet... Prime Minister of the Election Commission, but we'll probably have to wait for his presence, because at this point, I don't see him yet. I, therefore, do not even see him coming, declare a two-minute break, and I firmly believe that during them President Kolovratník will be present. [[Meeting suspended at 21.06.]] Madam Members, I have been informed that the President of the Election Commission is asking for five more minutes for the Election Commission, because he is still working, so I am declaring a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u33	Madam, gentlemen, the time for a break is up, even though it is not necessary for such a long time in the end. However, before I give the floor to the President of the Election Commission, I would like to announce that Mr Jan Síla is already voting with his card and not with the replacement card as announced. I will now ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the outcome of the secret election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u34	Thank you, good evening. I will introduce you to the results of the election of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. During the 9th parliamentary term, the House decided to fill six seats, six positions of Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents. The election was attended by 195 MEPs and 195 tickets were handed over, with the number of unsubs being zero. The commission required for the election was 98. I will announce the results in alphabetical order: Jan Bartošek won 100 votes and was elected, congratulations. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Věra Kovářová also received 100 votes and was elected, congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] The imaginary winner of the election is Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who won 142 votes and was elected, congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] Tomio Okamura has won 80 votes, he hasn't been elected. Olga Richterová got 95 votes, she wasn't elected either. Jan Skopeček won 102 votes and was elected, congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] And Radek Vondráček won 92 votes and was not elected. I'm saying the House was partly successful. We have chosen or taken four seats of Vice-Presidents, they are again: Jan Bartošek, Věra Kovářová, Jana Vildumetzová and Jan Skopeček. Two seats remain vacant. In line... [[Mr Stanjura approaches the speaker and tells him something off the microphone.]] I have a complaint from Mr. Stanjura, I'll give you the information right away. So we've taken four seats, two seats are vacant. Under the Rules of Procedure, we are proceeding to the second round. A maximum of twice as many candidates as the number of vacant posts shall proceed to the second round. There are three, so all three unsuccessful candidates in the first round, i.e. Mrs Olga Richterová, Radek Vondráček and Tomio Okamura, are moving on to the second round. And the impulse from Zdeněk Stanjura was to tell you how many invalid tickets there were. There were eight of them, so we really didn't actually count the kvorum just because of invalid marked tickets. I'll say it again just in case. It really needs to be done with all the candidates, with all the names, either the ring or the cross in the case of the other. So we can move on to the second round of this election. You'll only have three names on the ballot, and you'll be picking two candidates tops. Technically, we ask the Election Commission for ten minutes to print out new tickets and preparations, which means I will now beg the President to interrupt the meeting. And let's make a deal, we'll start the election at 21.25, it'll only take 15 minutes. Those tickets will be less crowded by now, which means, by 21.40 we would have made a choice, and let's agree that by 22.00 then the electoral commission would have announced the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u35	I thank Members of the Kolovratník and congratulate the elected Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents. I would also ask them to take their seats by my side. And now, given the notified number of different operations that will be needed, I'm declaring a ten-minute break, and then I'm going to make a choice that will be... No, I'm sorry. Meeting... I'm sorry, we can make a choice right now, and we can meet here at 10:00. Until then, by 21.40, I remind you, there's a choice going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u36	Madam Members, I am opening the adjourned negotiations and giving the floor to the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the outcome of the second round of the secret election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u37	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice late night. In the second round of the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, we occupied two vacant seats from the first round. Even in this election, 195 Members came to the election. The call for election was thus 98. The number of valid and invalid ballots surrendered was also 195, the number of non-denial zeros. That means everyone took part in the election. The results are as follows: I will introduce them again in alphabetical order: Mr Tomio Okamura has won 87 votes and has not been elected. Mrs Olga Richterová, 101 votes and has been elected. Congratulations. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Radek Vondráček 92 votes and was not elected. This election is over. I'm saying we've taken five Vice-Presidents in two rounds out of six. One place was left vacant. Since the choice is two-way, it is no longer possible to choose from these nominations, the choice ends. The Chamber of Deputies for one last vacancy will have to make new nominations, new proposals to the Election Commission, and then launch a new secret two-way choice. At this point, I assume for the electoral committee, at least as much as I have information, unless there is a meeting next week, that we would announce the deadline for Monday, November 22nd, so that the election would be prepared for the second meeting, another one from November 23rd. But I have to wait until I get the information here for the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for this election point. This election is over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-006-011.u38	I thank you, Mr President, and congratulations to the newly elected Vice-President. He can take his place by my side. That concludes this point. We will proceed to the next point in today's negotiations, which is:
