ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u1	336. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws /German press 545/ - third reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Wednesday 14 April of this year. I would ask that the position at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of the plaintiff, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which was the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Jan Chvojka. On 14 April, Mr Výborný represented him, and so is he today. I would remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 545/7, which was delivered on 26 February 2021, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as House prints 545/8 and 545/9. We will now continue the adjourned debate. According to the remark, Mr Patrik Nacher's speech was suspended on 14 April, which wishes to continue. I ask my colleagues to remain calm in the hall. Take your seats. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u2	Madam Secretary, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been interrupted in my speech, it is difficult to follow up on this every time something is interrupted, it is so unpleasant, the energy completely disappears. And I'd hate to keep the House here again to repeat it all over again. So I'm going to allow myself to sum up the thoughts I've been sharing here. I've introduced you to the entire field trip of what's happened in the environment of execution and insolvency in the last five years. The environment has clearly become very humanized, and now that I make it a lot easier, perhaps for the viewers, it has moved significantly towards the center of the extension environment from the testimonial. I'm just warning you not to turn the pendulum all the way back. I offered a view here not only to the debtor, because it certainly doesn't pay what the debtor, it doesn't pay the innocent victim, but it doesn't matter that what the debtor, it's the person who's responsible for it. It's just plain plain, it's not black and white. But I also offered you a creditor's view here, as I quoted here from e-mails, one natural person's creditor who runs around town and gets information about a mandatory one, which he then gives to the executor, and still doesn't help. I'll take one more look like that. Because it would be ideal for the debtor to look at it with the view of the creditor, the creditor with the view of the debtor and the executioner with both views, that is, to look at it with the eyes of the other person, and then perhaps we would have more understanding. When we're talking about the point of view here, when someone owes someone, and we're really gonna take it easy, on the other hand - creditors - we're gonna find, like, single moms. Now I've got a couple of e-mails that are just about executions, insolvencys, and sometimes there's a misunderstand that maybe whoever goes through insolvency feels like everything's going to be canceled, everything stops, all the executions, and he starts from scratch. This is true with one exception that you have so-called preferential claims, which must be nutritious, which must be paid 100%, and the debtor wonders. But let's look at the point of view of the creditor, which is the single parent or the single parent. I'm just warning you that if we go too far, we're going to be adopting standards here in a minute to help these creditors, which are these very individuals. In other words, I mean, a creditor doesn't mean it's a bank, a creditor doesn't mean it's just a transport business. That's why I said -- and I'm sorry that in public discourse, it's only gotten thicker in the debate, whether territoriality is, or not, and that's a shame to me, because if you look into that standard, the 545 press, already what's approved, or what I'm assuming will be approved, there's a whole series of things there. There are a number of things that will help even in the form of indirect retroactivity or some close effectiveness, the immediate effectiveness of those people, whether it be stopping in vain, but it is not stopping, it is ending, the termination of those futile, negative executions. It's already approved. It's already in the A's. As well as so-called, as it was called, a gracious summer. Spare the principal for public creditors, where the debtors have six months to pay for it, and that's when the execution will end, which will clear the premises. There it is again. These are hundreds of thousands of cases. Just as there are two different proposals that we're dealing with today, which humanize, humanize the mobile executions so that they don't become merely superficial pressure on debtors even when there's nothing really to sell them, as well as recording calls to avoid various blackmails, and then it's a claim against claims. After all, all of this cultivates significantly the environment, as well as that the order of satisfaction has changed, when the first principal is repaid, which is the thing that we may have approved for insolvency in case the accessories are larger than the principal. Those are all the things that haven't been fixed here, that will help these people not to keep filming forever, that they're only paying off interest, but they're not actually gonna make it to the principal. If we approve this place today, there's a chance to get an execution file in electronic form, which means that the person has information that goes on about it, open dates, shorten deadlines and so on and so forth, we've already talked about it. There are a number of changes that will have immediate reach. Add to that the introduction of a protected account, it's a big shift. I'm saying this, and I'm summing it up, because I'm sorry that the debate is all about territoriality. And like I said, I'm not gonna repeat the arguments as to why I'm not consistent with territoriality. Again, as it is designed in the form of absolute territoriality, it only works - only! - in Slovakia and Hungary, nowhere else. So when we have here, as I have said several times in other laws, when we give examples of how it works especially in Western Europe, this set territory really doesn't work anywhere. Here were ways to put the territoriality or the compromise variant there, and they really work. Somewhere. Let me give you two examples. That's regional territoriality, and it's so-called indirect. Regional is that you're going to divide the country in some way, and that's how it works in Belgium, but within that, the creditor can already choose. So there's some degree of territoriality, but it's also allowed to choose. There's some experience with that. Unfortunately, no one came up with this. In the wrong territory, we talked about it a year and a half ago, now Dominik Feri came up with it, finally pulled it down, I think we're gonna vote on it. And this is false territoriality, which means that the circle would only concern public creditors, but private creditors could continue to choose, just as it is in other countries. That means the roads were here, unfortunately, they're not there at the moment. So for me, it's a thing that concludes or continues with the changes that have been set up here over the last five years and that actually fixed the state that was the worst between 2001 and 2013, let's say. A whole series of situations, which owers and creditors write to us, can no longer occur with today's laws. [[10.20 hours]] We just have this stuff of the past that we have to sort out in some way, take off the system, but at the same time lead some education so that the person with multiple executions - now the question, five or more - is to go into debt, into insolvency, which, by the way, we also amended three times only during this parliamentary term. Because that's not possible, because then he couldn't legally move in that system, because I would almost say, I don't want to flatten out, it's impossible when someone has seven, eight, ten executions to deal with it in some way. But we are referring here to the fact that someone has ten, twelve, thirteen executions in order to justify some amendments. But it's for these cases that debt is appropriate, the insolvency. That's two completely different institutes, and that's how we should look at them and not justify it. That means we have a vote ahead of us. I'm glad we're through with this, because the debate, the pressure from all sides is huge, it's a sensitive subject. I'm just saying, I'm really sorry that we're not talking about stopping what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do with the people's furniture and the visits to those executors, which I think are really important things to pay back first, what to do, but that unfortunately - and even after the vote, it's going to happen - the debate will still revolve around territoriality, which I think is the bearing of the 4.5 million executions at the moment, but even in the near future, it won't help. We will also try to do this in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, so that efficiency is as quick as possible, but at the same time to make it feasible not to happen what happened with the protected account, because we all care about speed, but about territoriality the positive results, if any, and I consider it to some extent that we are actually pinning on here, we are like referee fights of executors, where it was experienced that when someone is a great executor, then it was likely that he was dryachtical; When someone's small, they don't have the stomach for it and they're honest, and we all know it's not like that because we all have cases. And if we look at the names of the executors of the various cases, they're often unknown names. So the rule isn't really like that. It's just plain as it is in other areas and fields. So much for that conclusion. I've jumped so many times, it's really uncomfortable after three days to go back to something that a man had a complete idea that he didn't just read. Thank you for your attention and I'll look forward to it next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u3	I thank Mr Nacher. Once again, good afternoon, honourable Members. Now the factual remark of Václav Votava, will be prepared by Lukáš Kolářík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Otherwise, I wish everyone a nice day at a time. I wanted to respond on Wednesday, but since it was interrupted, I only do so now. Mr Nacher here spoke of a law on consumer credit, which, of course, was intended to remedy a number of things and avoid unfair practices by non-bank providers. Yes, that's right. I was a part of it, too. There were some 70,000 non-bank providers back then. Today, after having to be licensed - only a trade certificate was sufficient for them, they must be licensed by the Czech National Bank today - so it shrunk to about a hundred providers. What I want to say, however, is that even the license may not be a guarantee of the fair conduct of those providers, and one thing needs to be pointed out is that it took place in the media. These licensed providers also often use or offer part of the loans as business loans to natural persons. They'll say, "Yes, you'll get a loan, get a business card." A fictional business plan will be written, money will be received, but it is not, of course, in terms of a business plan - it is a fraud that is done in this way, essentially a credit fraud. Then the man cancels the trade certificate and it is, of course, possible to prosecute criminally, such a fraud. I also want to appeal to the Czech National Bank, and I will also talk about it to the Committee on Budgets, so that it can closely control these providers - so unfortunately. [[Vice-President Philip: Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u5	And now, Mr Patrik Nacher's factual remark, I will also measure time. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u6	Thank you. Maybe I'll say it for the MP. In addition, the law greatly extended the obligation to examine the client's credit, so that if the court found out that he had not examined it, the debtor could only repay the principal, according to his ability. He's tightened it up a lot, but on the other hand, when it gets tougher, the banks won't lend to those debtors again, and the debtors in that net will move lower, lower, lower, when they get out of the system and borrow from some loan shark. That's what I'm saying. The law is good, it's very good, there's probably 20 million capital and so on, that means it's very tightened up. He's really tightened it up. If you tighten it up completely, those who can't reach the loan, suddenly go off the grid, and we're gonna chase them around again. As for that remark of yours, we agree that it was done by telling someone: We will lend it to you, and we will give you 1 000 crowns to establish a business license, and we will lend it to you as a business loan, so we do not need to examine you. Trust me, I made a lap here. I wanted to change that, I'm sure I'll have witnesses if the Secretary of Finance were here. I came across the fact that it would make the whole system dizzy, because at that point no one really agreed - neither the Czech National Bank, nor the Ministry, nor even the business unions, because it would complicate their access to finance, because banks would suddenly have to change the whole system. I've been through this wheel because I've noticed this problem of circumvention. However, I found that as it began to write and talk about it, which is proof that education makes sense, so the amount decreased greatly. So I thank you for this initiative, but this is actually part of the whole environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u7	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and my colleague Votava is applying for one more point of fact. Mr. Mr. Kolářík is patient. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u8	I'm sorry I couldn't finish, I fought with the glasses I dropped. It should be noted that one who accepts such a business loan in good faith may himself, however, be doing against himself that, on the one hand, the loan is disadvantageous, extremely disadvantageous to him. I was talking about possible prosecution for credit fraud, but of course it is not protected by legislation in terms of consumer credit. That's what it takes for this guy to realize. Therefore, I appeal again to the Czech National Bank - I know that it was not enthusiastic at the time when it was to issue licenses, and, on the one hand, to supervise these former non-bank providers so that they would really check closely and also prosecute them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u9	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and we continue the proper discussion with the performance of Lukáš Kolářík and prepare a colleague of Čižinský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to wish you a good morning and also to comment briefly on this issue. We're basically saying over and over again that it's two views, that it's the look of the debtor, and it's the look of the creditor. However, I think we have a third view here, and I think that is much more important, and that is the view of the entire society that we elected Members should represent here. And that look is important because I think, and it's based on those numbers that I see society doesn't want us to have 4.3 million execution degrees here. He certainly doesn't want us to have 719,000 here, which are in execution, most of which are trapped in such a trap that he can never get out of them. He certainly doesn't want 120,000 of these people to be seniors over the age of 60. It does not want to support the grey economy, thanks to which the company loses big money both at the entry of the budget, when those people who are in debt traps and earning money black don't contribute to the common box, and at the same time at the exit, when they are collectors of various benefits and means of support, and this increases, of course, some cost of preventing crime. [[10.30 hours]] On the contrary, I think that he wants the system to recover the debts, recover the debts from those people, but at the same time he did not liquidate them so that they would not become modern-day financial slaves who paid their debts after 500, but could never repay them. Yes, that's where the current system has led us, which clearly doesn't work. Enforcement continues to decline, executions do not decrease, on the contrary, I think that at this point they will start to increase significantly again. Our task is to find a solution, a fair solution, to make it a fair solution for all. And that is what we offer you here, along with fellow petitioners, in the framework of Amendment E7, so-called pure regional territoriality. This proposal has broad public support, expert organisations, has been mentioned in a government document in the fight against poverty, it is supported by non-profit companies working with debtors, it is supported by overdebted regions, and also charity through their employees and workers. We have the opportunity to make a change that will really help. Furthermore, let me comment on the fact that in the galleys here and in the company it began to appear that the proposal is flawed, that it is not right, that it has to be returned and corrected somehow. I don't think that's true. We've been working on this proposal together with our colleagues... It's been through a few commentary proceedings, we've worked up all the comments from both the Ministry of Justice and others, and it's really a great proposal. Of course, having a political problem with him is definitely the right thing to do, but he can't blame it on the fact that there are mistakes that aren't there. I would take the liberty of giving a brief quote, as some of the organisations concerned with debtors see it, and how they feel about local jurisdiction. Very briefly: "Teritoriality will offer a more efficient and more gentle recovery of claims, which should ultimately bring about an improvement in enforcement, especially for smaller creditors. Thanks to a maximum of one running execution, more precisely the recovery of claims by one bailout, debtors will not be motivated to go to the grey economy as in the case of the enforcement of more executions simultaneously. So they will have more legal employment, and thus more ability to pay back. Territoriality should offer a comparison of creditors' chances of recovery, because large creditors will no longer be able to negotiate preferential terms as they have been. The limitation of selection will also lead to the reduction of unfair trade in debts and the purpose of initiating executions, which will once again have a positive impact on fair creditors. Moreover, according to the data of VZP, the largest executives have only an average success rate in the recovery of claims. So it is not true that large executive agencies are more successful in recovering claims than small authorities. According to the Slovak Ministry of Justice, the enforcement of executions increased after the introduction of territoriality and the total number of executions decreased significantly." So much for territoriality. There are, of course, more amendments that I think are important, but this is the most important and absolutely essential. Without it, it is only in the quotation marks of cosmetic change and desired condition, which has been declared here by all political parties or by the majority that one debtor equals one executor, we will never introduce. Of the good that has already been defended by colleagues here, I can say for the pirát that we will certainly support the rationalization of stopping executions and stopping apparently unenforceable executions, because that is what my colleague Patrik Nacher was talking about here, that territoriality, of course, does not go into the past, is heading to the future, and without stopping and amending the insolvency law, we will not clear the so-called swamp we have here, and those people who are completely out of the system. Without this amendment, without local jurisdiction, it is basically as if water had burst in our apartment, and instead of stopping the water supply, we would have started to wipe out the water in the form of various proposals that I have here, which are certainly important - I do not deny - but without stopping the supply and changing the system, the principle of the system that just allows people to fall into executions, so we will never, ever remove it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support really systemic change. Let us help change the enforcement system so that it really works for what it is intended to do, to recover debts and debts, and not to liquidate part of the company. Let us set up a really fair and, above all, transparent system that will be in the interests of the entire society. I'm sure the public will thank you for that. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u11	I thank Mr Lukáš Kolářík. A colleague of Čižinský posečí, with a factual remark, came to Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. I have to respond. I don't like it when some words that have a clear meaning are always used for everything. So this law, no matter what we do with it today, can never be fair. That's the first thing I'm asking you to do. Let us not make promises that are unattainable. What are the reasons for this? First of all. There are citizens among us who have never been in debt all their lives and are careful not to get into debt. To these citizens, and there are not few, such a law of justice can never be, because while they live their lives completely responsibly, they forgive some things they just don't buy, so at their expense we're here to invent some different processes and debt forgiveness for those who don't think that way - I'm not saying that they're all, but they just don't have that kind of responsibility. Two. We're constantly limiting some private creditors here. And what does the state do? You don't think there's a tax execution today, a customs execution? It's running, and you think it's a couple of crowns? Well, it doesn't. It's often vanquished. But while the landlord's house is getting harder and harder to get to his money for someone using his apartment and not paying for it, so stand still - and he can even fail such a landlord because he won't have the money to repair and so on - so the state, which may well be able to do without some claims recovery, so he keeps pushing them out. And I didn't hear anybody getting emotional about the fate of businessmen who are being crushed by tax executions today. So with justice, I beg you: it is unattainable in this law and it is very hard to expect anything from it, but not justice. And most importantly, we are discussing, please, the final process of this whole thing, that there are some debts. I agree with my colleague Kolářík that the company probably doesn't want everyone to owe anything. But the problem arises somewhere completely different, but not at the final stage, which is called enforcement proceedings. [[President: My colleague, the time has ended for your point of order.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u13	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský will now prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that here we are dealing with the second biggest problem of our country, which is the biggest, the pandemic, and which will soon replace the pandemic on the spot of the biggest problem. We deal with executions, the hopelessness of executed people and their distrust of the state and anyone who represents the state. I would like to draw attention to one more aspect of what Mr Faltýnek's diary has shown. Just numbers, numbers, as his boss likes to say, and numbers are clear. It doesn't matter what it now explains what it meant or didn't mean. I am referring to the figures from the journal that published the News List, namely, from each execution to an executor of 8,000, 12,000 attorneys bound by Mr.Faltýnek to a political party. And there was also a list of political parties attached according to Mr.Faltýnek to specific lawyers, YES, ČSSD, ODS. Maybe we can think about the fact that Mr. Faltýnek wanted to damage the party, but why in God's name would he write about his movement, yes, if at least YES wasn't true? [[10.40 hours]] In this way, the executions for the fare in the Prague transport company were to work before the change in the Prague city hall, 50,000 executions per year. In five years' time, Mr.Faltýnek's remarks linked lawyers to political parties would have brought 300 million crowns. From where? Out of the pockets of the poorest. For who else but a man in need will be fined for driving black until execution? It is an incredible cynicism to finance, as Mr Faltýnek writes, political parties from the money of the poorest and through execution. I wonder if the ANO Members today will take steps to reduce this trade in human poverty. It is a call for immorality to heaven, when the last thousand that may hold a man above the surface wants to claim a lawyer tied up according to Mr. Faltýnek to a political party or someone who is certainly not in need. We have ended these practices in Prague and its transport business. This is important because in Prague's transport business there is a huge potential for execution, only for unnoticed people perhaps the largest in our country. It will even be on the table this Monday on the city council to take account of the state of the physical emergency in the fare precisely so that the executions will actually occur as little as possible. But is it really necessary to continue these cynical practices at national level? In opposition to the principle of territoriality, I suspect trade relations for existing big executor business players. Why, on the one hand, do small amounts of government debt - a thousand here, a 500-dollar businessman - and at the same time the execution system robs the most necessary of them of the last money and gives them, as Mr. Faltýnek writes, to the influential of this country? The poor take and give to the rich, unfortunately, is a policy that hides behind the current executions. Let's try not to look at the numbers, especially the numbers on the accounts, and look at the faces of the people on the tram and the subway. They're hiding behind those numbers. They're specific people, and these particular people are in those executions, and their misery is the perverted side of the profits and shares of the execution machine. Similarly, all the social costs that this business brings, social costs, health, security and other will not be paid out of the profits of the people in the execution business. If we do not significantly limit the growth of the execution business by at least establishing territoriality, we will all pay it in the same way over time from our taxes, i.e. those who pay taxes in the Czech Republic. And that's not the case with the ones in Mr. Faltýnek's notes marked where there's one owner - me. Ladies and gentlemen, the approval of territoriality will restrict or prevent the possibility of writing in the journals of executors, lawyers and their political abbreviations, and will give hope to improve people's confidence in our state and our country. Mr Faltýnek's remarks could have one positive effect today: that the Chamber of Deputies would approve territoriality and thus demonstrate that such remarks will completely cease to make sense in the future. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u15	Thank you, Mr Jan Čižinský. My colleague Blažek gave up his point of fact. In that case, Mrs Helena Válková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, who are waiting for a similar political speech, which, in my opinion, is more likely to be part of the election campaign, will be disappointed. I'm not going to talk about any comments from any politician. I will focus on the problem that I - and now I will say that I have a simpler position in something and more complex - employs me for a number of months from the position I hold. I'm in charge of the most endangered human rights attorneys in the government. So in this respect, I think it is very simple to understand some of my positions and opinions, because I am confronted by those who in countless letters turn to me with a request for help and point out that they are exposed to multiple executions, that unfortunately they have not one executor, but perhaps five or ten executors, that they are lost in their duties and that they would like to at least partially - because some of them write: at least partially, I have read a letter recently - they have emerged from that grey zone that is not comfortable for them. They say they got into it with their own guilt, but maybe after all these years they have the right to live a normal life. However, we, as we well know, and currently the bailiff can stop the execution only for lawlessness. Now, therefore, the amendment introduces the possibility of stopping it for inevitability and what we should be talking about in particular is how to restore public confidence, not only by debtors, but generally by trusting the public in the enforcement of law. And that is what Mr Nacher and many of my previous speakers have been talking about. The debate is very polarized, and while the debtors rightly point out that one of their fundamental human rights is being violated - the right to have hope when I made a mistake, to live when the error allows me to correct it, and the normal life - so, of course, creditors are interested in borrowing the money that they have lent in good faith, where they have used all the legal possibilities of pre-criminal calls, courts, to pay the costs, to wait for voluntary fulfilment, so that at some point they can get to the money effectively, quickly and legally, not through some enforcer's way, that is through an executor. I think that merging these two poles is sometimes beyond human strength, and we're trying to do that here. I really haven't dealt with anything else in the last few weeks, and I've also changed my opinion a little bit with the optics of those we should be helping - that is, it's a bit skewed now - in favour of the more vulnerable, currently debtors, basically I've changed my opinion to the point that I think it would be good for us to be brave and, in the vote that will soon follow, at least allow everything that my previous speaker and fellow Member Nacher, for example, spoke of to you, to be as soon as possible. The courage is to do this not only in the case of bogus executions, but in order to cover the huge number of executions - because we have 3 million executions, I had it calculated, over three years and 1 million executions older than 10 years - so that it could be corrected and all the gracious, merciful, summers and others - the humanization of the mobile executions that my colleagues have already discussed in sufficient detail, so I will leave out their speech, performances - so that they can take effect. This means that we can apply them, those new institutions of stopping and mercy or forgiveness and allowing a new start into life as soon as possible. Which, of course, we have here in some amendments. [[10.50 hours]] I will confess to the microphone here - because everyone can even look it up and I am always happy to be transparent - that I did not initially vote for them, such as the constitutionally-legal committee or the previous negotiations. Today, knowing that I am changing my mind, I will vote. These are Mr Farský amendments under J1 and J2 and it is precisely because I think it is not possible to expect the first-stop executions to occur in 2025, aside from the backpacking executions. I know that this is a great challenge for the Justice Department, for the bailiffs, for the whole, say, whole or set of those who point out that luckily most citizens are those who fulfil their obligations properly and how they come to do so. However, as I say, we should have a starting line here, and I'm here now from the position of the one who's supposed to stand up for those who can't stand up here and who want them to start after years that they've spent by not being legally employed, resigned and paralyzed, so that we can give them a new chance. After all, it is my own, because I have always been on the side of the more vulnerable, whether it be people released from prison sentences, debtors, homeless people, people who have lost their jobs, those who, for example, at 55, 60 years of age, found themselves in an economic crisis because their employer went bankrupt and so on. So that's why I have no choice but to take the side of those who should have that new chance at some point. Another thing that leads me to my opinion and to my opinion and to my vote is that I am still confronted with a falling confidence in enforcement and, say, the effectiveness of state power, when I think that we must try to bring confidence back, for example, in executor and in judicial power, in an independent court that sometimes decides on the rights of debtors in a way that is not completely transparent. Because, for example, the findings of the research of March 18, 2021 - which, in turn, one non-profit, non-state organization sent me, and I have no reason to question it - say that respondents consider the execution system only to be fair in 3%, 49 percent considers it unfair and 45 percent hesitates and says that it is only partially unfair. The vast majority, about 80 percent, disagree with the current system. Why do I say that? We seem to have neglected something here as politicians, and it is probably up to us today to convince that the system will be fairer, that we will support a greater option for those who have made a mistake in the past, and basically move in such a half-world of legality and lawlessness and would like to step out of it. So, even if I do not support territoriality, even in an extended version of the compromise solution of consumer territory, because I think that this is not the main solution - very plasticly described here, for example, by Mr Nacher, but also by others who have spoken - but I think it is more important that the content, which has completely changed the current situation in the area of execution or can change, or what is linked to the changes that we have succeeded in achieving, as far as child debts, the protected account and others are concerned, so that we continue them as soon as possible and do not wait for the system to be prepared. I know what I'm talking about, because before the system is ready for 2025, there will be other governments, other politicians, and everything can change again. So I'd like our move to be as quick as possible. In this respect, I have also prepared such information for you and the public statement as the Human Rights Commissioner, that I think that the content is more important than the forms, and because we have not yet managed to unify what territoriality should look like optimally, let us not forget that we today with a high probability of the debate - although many of us would like to relax - are not finished because there is still the Senate, and already as a relatively experienced politician, and especially recently, I know that there is a trend in increasing the number of vomit. That means I can't imagine enough that the Senate wouldn't take advantage of its options, and it hasn't proposed a solution to us yet, so we will probably continue this debate. I believe that today's debate is so open and so honest to change the unhappy state we have seen for many years that it would be a shame to put an end to it by a vote that we would not be 100% convinced of. And this hesitation, what a variant, if any, because there have also been very strong arguments here for the fact that in many countries territoriality is not a self-savvy solution, so for this reason too, I have decided not to raise my hand today, given my position as Human Rights Commissioner or for the compromise proposal of consumer territoriality. On the other hand, I have decided to go with the courageous solution, or I will not go with it, and I will go with the majority of the Members who will vote and raise my hand for Mr Farský's proposals, which is, in a way, an exception, because I mostly do not raise my hand for his proposals, given that we are in a number of different legal issues. But here I think he's right when he's drawing attention to the long hole. In conclusion, I wanted, of course, as is the case when someone tabled an amendment, and also to show that I am not unilaterally blinded in the sense, which could be accused of defending only the interests of the debtor, although I do not have positive opinions either from the constitutionally-legal committee or from the recommendation opinion of the Ministry of Justice, it is in the 7459 system. And here I want to draw attention to the fact that I personally think that my proposal is a much more appropriate way of regulating the number of futile executions by leaving optional advances that take into account the specific circumstances of the case and creating an economic barrier to the exit from the execution, because the total obligation to pay advances is replaced by a much better obligation to cover the regulatory costs of execution in the legal cases, or specified cases where the termination of execution cannot be attributed to a mandatory one. That obligation would not burden the legitimate who lead the execution, which obviously is not a futile execution. My proposal has a regulatory effect, because the entitled person will always be forced to consider whether he is initiating proceedings that can really lead to a purpose being fulfilled. The initiation of a futile procedure will not be subject to a fee until the end of the procedure, when the execution will stop for reasons attributable to the beneficiary. This will allow the beneficiary to plan better financially the impact of the enforcement procedure depending on its course. I have, of course, discussed this proposal in detail with the Executive Chamber, which - I do not know if it welcomes it, but certainly does not contradict it. [[11.00 hours]] So I would like to conclude by saying that, as Mr Čižinský, through you, Mr Vice-President, hastily ended here with such a misleading appeal, let us try to balance the interests of creditors and debtors with a reasonable compromise, which, as I have also listened to the debate, is now not rash from voting territoriality that we are not all convinced of, let us wait for the Senate's opinion, and let us vote for something that all the benefits that have been discussed here and which are undisputed, will speed up. I would like to tell the debtors from this place, that is the courage of Members and Members to force the state system to work faster and to allow the starting line, actually imaginarily signal that they have a chance to start a normal life again, so to move it somewhere to an estimated future, which is now 2022, not 2025. And at the very end, let me also thank all those involved in this, those efforts, and myself, who have never lived by executions as a so-called lawyer - that was not my topic - that taught a lot of things. These are, in particular, fellow Members of Mr Patrik Nacher, who put the necessary economic aspects into this, it is Mr Marek Výborný, who, of course, takes into account aspects of humanitarianism, and they are also Members of our Members' Club who have always tried to understand the context, although for some non-lawists there is no choice but to rely on what we lawyers say, who are particularly responsible for this. I believe that the vote will end well and that the debate will not turn into a policy of the type that those who did not vote for territoriality do not want to help debtors. I strongly refuse to do so. We want to help, we have the optimal solution here, just raise your hand and apply to what we really know that it will help debtors, not what we think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u17	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda will now speak in the general debate, Mr Feri will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u18	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief because I would like this to be voted out today. I have one thing to say. Everyone here speaks for the debtors, I say I'm on the side of the creditors. Debts are supposed to be paid. I ask that this be made clear. Debts are meant to be paid, and we just want people not to get into permanent slavery because of their inability to pay off their obligations. That's what we're talking about here, but if I'm in debt to pay for it, that seems perfectly normal to me. And if we send other signals to society, if we look like I'm in debt out of stupidity, someone will forgive me, we will completely destroy the company and completely degrade it. So much for my basic thesis. I am willing, and the rapporteur knows that, I am voting in favour of a number of things, whether they are graceful years, humanization of mobillary executions, stopping bagels, which are supposed to remove some of the old things, which are supposed to somehow help those who are affected by executions, but at the same time I say the basic signal that we are supposed to broadcast to society is: Debts are to be paid and I cannot lie out of them and talk out of them. That's the first thing I'd like to say. Second thing: please nicely, execution and performance of the executor function is in no way responsible for how much execution will be done. That's a thing that's completely independent of it. Enforcement is a court decision or another public authority if it exists, which says: Mr A. owes Mr B. so much and so much money and this decision is enforceable. And then comes someone who's supposed to manage it in some way, but the beginning is the final decision of the court that says, "You borrowed, you did, you did damage, you took advantage of, those reasons can be x and you have to pay." Anyone can decide at that point that they'll pay, no one has to go to the execution. No one has to wait for the additional costs of execution. Anyone who has this court decision can say clearly: I made a mistake, I'm going to pay. It doesn't happen. And the last thing I wanted here, the others have been listed a thousand times, is the famous territory. It's all been downloaded, the whole discussion has been withdrawn only for an obscure discussion about territoriality, which - I don't know if those who go and perform here know - is the original idea of the Executor Chamber. The executor's chamber came up with this: it's about making sure even the incompetents have enough jobs. That's how it all came about. This is the resolution of the Executor Chamber, which says: We want everyone to have the right to work, so that everyone can safely ensure how many performances they have, and not that someone is more skilled and has less performances and someone is less skilled and has more performances. And now there's some incredible stories about how it's gonna be fairer, how it's gonna be cheaper. Is there only one fee going to disappear because it's all going to be centered on some executor? None of these charges are going to go away, nothing's going to happen, so I don't vote for any territoriality. I really consider it a request from the Executor Chamber, which part of the public jumped on, but it literally jumped in as if it was going to solve something. It won't solve anything in my opinion. And if we're talking about the issue of multiples, and that's probably more than the three of them -- I think three executions can usually be repaid, and if they can't be repaid because they're so big, I still have to go to insolvency proceedings, then the enforcement procedure is totally inappropriate for solving eight, ten executions. That's total nonsense. There's just a need for that person to say, "Yes, I've bankrupted - that's insolvency, I'm coming and I'm saying, "I'm declaring myself a personal bankruptcy, I'm bankrupt, I'm in debt to ten of you, I owe you all money, please let me have five years, and it's not yet someone has to come up with the ideas that he's going to say, "Well, we'd like to make it better on three, so everything will stop, 'cause everyone will be waiting to see if it gets better by chance on three." Please, nicely, I've bankrupted, five years I'm going to do my best to do what I'm able to do, and in some fair way, it's going to be redistributed to all the people I owe, and at the end of the day, the rest will be crossed out, the person went through personal bankruptcy. Let's not pretend that enforcement is something that's supposed to work on ten simultaneous executions. It's nonsense, and it's exactly the system that leads to permanent slavery. Anyone who's overdue like this must go through a personal bankruptcy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u19	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will now appear, Mrs Hyťhová will be ready. I'm sorry, my mistake, there are factual points. With the first point of fact, Mrs Valachová, with the second point of fact, Mr Čižinský, with the third point of fact, Mr Navrkal. It's okay now. Mrs Valachová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, Madam Secretary, Minister, just a few comments. One. The new enforcement rules that we are discussing today, neither of these new enforcement rules says that debt should not be paid. For God's sake, what enforcement rule we're discussing now says that? Maybe we should be more specific, if that's what we're saying at the House plenary. I don't think either. [[11.10 hours]] Second thing: the principle of local jurisdiction of executors. Yes, it is a debate that has been going on for a long time, I would almost say since 2005, just as I remember, but what's important is the principle of one debtor, one bailiff, the concentration of management and local jurisdiction are the things that are in this government's programming declaration. Therefore, the debate on the House's soil, how to stand up to it and what it gets most, is absolutely legitimate, it is not an order from the Executor Chamber. And the third point. If we are talking about amending the enforcement rules, it is important to say that the local jurisdiction of the executors, but also the other rules that we have on the table today, we will vote on them and the majority will decide on them, they are defended in a long-term professional space, such as the Judging Union, and the principle is simple. Not that debts should not be paid, but that it is correct if the creditor and the debtor, compulsory, are equal to the bailiff or court. I must admit that I am a little sorry that we know from the Constitutional Court's point of view that there are several things that the Constitutional Court is discussing, so far it has not been decided, and the debate would have accelerated. So many notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u21	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u22	Thank you. Nobody's defending that debt shouldn't be paid, but the way it worked was totally immoral. A lot of people have learned that they owe anything at all in the real estate cadastral, where there was a filling. Interest grew faster than debt. Those people really got into a completely impossible situation. And to the territoriality. Well, if territoriality had been introduced, Mr. Faltýnek wouldn't have anything to write down in his diary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u23	Thank you. Mr. František Navrkal, Mr. Blažek will be ready. We're still in factual notes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u24	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would also have responded briefly to Mr Benda. I also didn't quite understand where his remark was headed that debts should be paid. Indeed, no one here is questioning what my previous speakers said, no one is questioning that at all. And I think that all the proposals that are being put forward here for some more fundamental reforms, including territoriality, are certainly not aimed at weakening the enforcement of debts overall, but, for example, to ensure that the enforcement of those debts is not just for large creditors, but also for small creditors. And I feel here for the long term that, perhaps, you, or your party, through the President, are more in favour of the interests of the big creditors, and the smaller ones are not that big of a deal anymore. And I think, for example, the experience: we were together in Slovakia, where they have territoriality, where they have a similar system, which we are talking about here, and the experience there was such that it suits the small creditors. So that's what I wanted to point out, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u25	Thank you. Mr Pavel Blažek, then Mr Kolařík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u26	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Navrkal has done propaganda, and I believe he will be successful with a lot of voters. However, that our party would represent some big creditors is nonsense. We always care, we're a conservative party, and we don't like change very much. In this term and in the past, this law has changed - I can't even count it. And we're just saying that what you're all talking about here basically means that there's a lot of debt, that's not gonna solve it. I'm perfectly willing to accuse many of those who talk here that they don't care about the poor debtors, they want to be in the media for the good guys and get votes. Let's talk about it. I don't want to play this thing. In my experience, we'd be surprised how many of the poorest debts they pay. Those who avoid often and who don't talk much about here are the cunning ones, they are often from different layers than the poorest ones. They just have to pay for a lawyer who tells him what to do so he doesn't. And I don't want to help these people because they're just very smart. And I repeat, don't play here completely - in clausian terms - a fake game, that no matter what we approve here today, there'll be less debt. It won't. If there's too many people between us who are gonna run out of TV, they don't have it, and instead of looking out the window, they're gonna go into debt and buy a new one, we're not gonna figure this out right now. As far as equality is concerned, as my colleague Valachová said here, between mandatory - already mandatory - words - mandatory and justified. I mean, the creditor's already been through the Martyrium trial for his money, and he's been waiting for that for many years. And what equal status can he have with someone who has a legal title, that the other owes him something, and the one who laughs at his face for five or more years? What equality? I don't get it. That goes beyond my ability to be logical, distinctive, whatever.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u27	Sorry, time. Thank you. Mr Lukáš Kolářík, Mr Nacher will be prepared, factual remarks are still ongoing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u28	Thank you. I'll take it quick, I'm sure I won't run out of two minutes. Colleagues have already said so. Debts definitely have to be paid, we all say so, of course. We're talking more about how to set up the process so that we can recover the debts as carefully as possible. And let's not try to summon something like these people who borrow on TV. I certainly don't think so. From these loans comes the debts of a minority, let's say, it's less than 50 percent. We live in a state where half of the households have no financial reserve of more than CZK 10,000, which means it's not about TVs, a refrigerator can break down, a washing machine can break down, they need equipment for school children. And for that, they borrow people here in the Czech Republic, not on TV, and that sends them into the traps. Let us also focus on raising the income of Czech households and helping them survive better. In addition to my colleague Benda, through Mr President, this is some original proposal from the Executive Chamber. I don't think so. Of course, we wrote our proposal ourselves with professional organisations, but I do not understand why it bothers him so much, because he often defends the proposals that come from the Chamber of Commerce. So what's the difference between the Chamber of Commerce and the Executive Chamber? I don't see any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u29	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Benda after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say, here it falls: debts are to be paid and this shortcut arises that the relationship between mandatory and legitimate, that they are unpaid debts from some loans. But that's a whole range of different relationships, unpaid services, rent, maintenance, that's not just the shortcut -- someone borrowed, bought a TV, then doesn't pay back. That's a minority. So that's the first point. It's like it makes us feel like we're gonna hit the guys they're lending. Yeah, it's not like that. And second thing: yes, you're right, colleagues. You didn't explicitly say that debts shouldn't be paid, but some suggestions in that context could point to that. I've already talked about it here in one speech, and I didn't want to repeat it, but there's a small group of people who can also be indirectly damaged by it, and they're debtors who pay back honestly. This is not only the relationship of the creditor and the debtor, but also the debtor, who repays honestly. He's gonna say a lot of things, it's really jinnish to him that he owes somewhere. On the other hand, there will be another case, which is, as the Executive Chamber once wrote to me, that unfortunately the creditor stumbled upon a professional debtor with 27 executions, so the creditor gets nothing. Those are two completely different cases. And we, if we take it too easy, we're gonna damage the honest debtor who's been paying, and he's gonna find out that maybe he didn't have to do that, that there's another way. That's how I perceive Marek Benda's words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u31	Thank you. And Marek Benda will now make a point of fact, then Mr Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u32	I'm glad I provoked this debate as to whether or not debts should be paid. I think they're supposed to be paid and that some of the points are really going to make us look - including ideas such as insolvency - two fifths less than five years to three - it's great, except for the creditor to pay - each of those creditors. And it seems perfectly okay to us, and many will walk around and say, "How come it hasn't been done yet, how is it that it hasn't been accepted yet? But what my colleague Navrkal said: Slovakia. We were in Slovakia. I didn't know it would suit the little ones. In Slovakia, the only person who is extremely territorial was the management of the Executor Chamber, it was enthusiastic. [[Complimented?]] And that's exactly what we're talking about here today. Who are the little, little creditors? A letter has already been quoted here from the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I assume that municipalities are relatively small creditors, especially small municipalities. The Association of Czech and Moravian Housing Cooperatives, SVJ, was already quoted here. They are also small creditors. Those are the ones you like to defend. They both write to us, "Don't do anything about territoriality, it's total, total nonsense, totally contrary to the interests of creditors." So only to this colleague Kolářík. I don't know that I've ever presented anything here for the Chamber of Commerce, but it could have happened to me, and I'm not ruling it out. Of course, I always take the chambers seriously in the field of legal, but when I see that it's just an effort to share the market in some way, I say, in this effort, I'm not going to run and judge you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u33	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, at this time, the last sign-in with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u34	Thank you. I want some refills. Here are a few pages that are not mentioned at all. In fact, I respond a little, through Mr President, to Mr Nacher. There is always talk of a creditor, there is talk of a debtor, another party is an executor and an attorney, but a very important party, which is not mentioned here at all and should be, so it is a taxpayer, a municipality, a county, a state, and they are financed by taxes. Because the system, how it works now, leads to many people not jumping back to work, paying taxes and then paying their old age problems, which are caused by the execution process, so all taxpayers will have to pay for it, because social benefits, taking care of some senior who is overdue, so it's all paid by taxpayers, it's paid by municipalities, regions, it's gotta be solved by municipalities, regions and by the state with its benefits. And if this is not balanced - and we really should try to make it balanced - then taxpayers will simply pay for it. And that's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u35	Thank you. Now it's Mr. President Vlastimil Válek's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I think we should move forward. That's kind of... It's starting to be déjà vu. Yesterday we talked about which group is worse, if pedestrians, cyclists, motorists, truckers. I think a guy who acts like an asshole when he sits on a bike doesn't change behavior when he gets in a car, doesn't change behavior, just changes the gun he's got in his hand, and when he starts driving a truck, it's still the same thing. I would take the liberty of even here, but I will not do this to appoint some of our colleagues, who I do not believe are acting differently in the Chamber of Deputies than in personal life, and they are probably physically attacking people the way they attack their colleagues here. That's just the way it is. And they even proved by example that it doesn't matter if they're in a political party or leave it, they just have access to life. And that's why I think it's wrong for us to talk about categories here, but to adopt laws that protect the decent ones and which severely affect the rude ones. That's how we should look at it. To be a group against another group, that never, ever did anything good in history, always went wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u37	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u38	Thank you for the floor. To a colleague of Čižinský. I'm gonna quote something here, yeah, so it doesn't look like it's here, that the black and white world, that there's always someone defending something, that's the bad guy, and you're defending something that's right here. Quote: "Lastly, the image of a creditor as a wealthy financial institution or even a non-bank loan provider prevails in public discussion. However, it is forgotten that a wide range of groups of creditors who have entered this position without their own involvement. These are natural persons, but also entrepreneurs or municipalities as public corporations, managing public funds. In particular, they have very strict rules on property management according to municipal laws and budgetary rules of territorial budgets. These rules also include the obligation to properly manage its claims, to enforce them in due time, as far as possible and in the most efficient and efficient way possible. The municipalities are placed in a position of creditor by providing their services to citizens. A small number of people get used to not paying for these services and having their fellow citizens pay for them. In other words, it will then be paid by the one who pays, and it will also be paid for the one who does not pay." These are not my words, nor the words of colleagues who spoke before me, but the words of the letter from František Lukl, President of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I just want to be perfectly clear, while we're at it, and that's practice, and as far as I know, that's a colleague who's a member of the STAN movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u39	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u40	It's really just a short one. I wonder if the President of the Union of Towns and Municipalities would write about the costs that will be in 20 years' time. That would have to be written, too. That means how much it costs to take care of people who don't get out of their debts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u41	Thank you. It is now Mr Dominik Feri's turn in the general debate, Mrs Hyťhová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I will uncover the cards and present the opinion of our Membership Club on the issue of local jurisdiction. We have been discussing this matter for a long time, and we have decided to support it in addition to the version that I am presenting and to which I am about to comment, the so-called consumer territory. We consider it a sensitive compromise, a balanced solution and something that has a chance not only to go through the Chamber of Deputies and the entire legislative process, but also to be put in a practical life. When I indicated that we have tabled our own solution, this is an amendment that you will find in the inventory as a proposal for K5, and it is a so-called public territory, sometimes referred to as false territoriality. Its essence is the distribution of the idea of individual executions according to the origin of the claim, that is, if the claim is so called public or arising from any public activity, public entity, then it is divided by a wheel, there is no possibility to choose an executor, while in other cases it is. In this case, it is important to say that the natural essential thing in this adjustment is how we will assess the origin of the claim. For example, if there is a cesium of the claim, whether we are going to follow a step-by-step or a step-by-step approach. And there I believe that it is adjustable so as to prevent, say, possible efforts to circumvent the substance of the proposal, but it is no longer possible to do so at this stage of the legislative process. An amendment to this and if the Senate is interested in it, I will put it at the disposal of our senators and may apply this proposal if it is in a particular form. I do, however, believe that the question of executions is so sensitive and so fundamental and I do not want us to delay in the Chamber of Deputies by delaying this proposal, which I have information on, that it could receive wider support in this form, but that would prolong the legislative process beyond a reasonable measure, that we should not vote on it. That is why I have decided to withdraw Amendment K5. [[11.30 hours]] We need to discuss this press. I'm sorry we didn't discuss it until April 16th, we could have discussed it much earlier, it was repeatedly dragged out, surrounded, and I'm very sorry. And I want this press from the House to pass today after I believe in a successful vote, so that he can move on in that Collection as soon as possible. So much for the question of local jurisdiction. Like I said, we're gonna support consumer territory. Other proposals, which I am proposing, which, of course, in view of the fact that this is primarily exhausting the media debate, may not have become known, so one of the amendments does not directly affect the issue of enforcement, but rather concerns the question of the finding procedure. Although it responds to the situation in practice, when not all the finding courts, but certain judges try to complete the finding procedure at all costs in order to formally reach the end of the procedure and use the way that is obviously foreseen by the Civil Procedure Code, namely that instead, for example, a qualified call will be sent to the defendant by a simple, so-called simple call, for which replacement delivery is possible, and in that call add a clause where it is said: You agree that we will decide this matter without a regulation of negotiations. If the defendant, the debtor, does not receive the mail, is not delivered to him normally, then in that situation of course he will be considered to agree. I think that this provision has its meaning in the SEC, but I think that it should touch on the issues of formal management rather than the issues of material leadership, such fundamental decisions, when we actually accept that the end of the procedure is simply achieved in such a drastic way. I think that's what contum judgment is all about, not this way. So that's one suggestion. The next K2 proposal deals with the specifics of our legal order, and this is the so-called double-track that you can currently apply your executional title, an enforceable decision, both in the court and in the judicial executor for historical reasons. In practice, of course, the idea of things in court is very minimal and it is also due to higher enforcement or higher level of satisfaction in judicial executors. That is why I am also terrified personally by certain - I believe marginal - efforts and marginal calls to nationalise executors. This is something that no one who really cares about the balance of the system and the enforcement of the law, so that the judgment doesn't have the value of just paper and ink, so they can't support it. No one will tell you the exact numbers, but the Ministry was giving - or any information I could get - that it was said that before 2001, the satisfaction was about 2%. That means you were owed $100,000, and then you got $2,000 from the bailiff, which is something crazy, unimaginable. The memories of lawyers, who had been extorting before in the 1990s, it was that the debtors laughed directly at the creditors, and it took a very long time to do so. This means that the very existence of judicial executors is desirable, but, as I said, we must face the excesses that have been happening for historical reasons lately. It means it removes double-trackness, and it only preserves the execution of a decision or execution in the narrower sense of the word, that is, according to the execution order. The next question concerns delivery. In general, there is pressure in the state administration to digitise things so that there are no futile steps to orbit data rather than people. And this is a proposal that is quite specific - I admit completely without torture - that it took a great deal of work to write it and to formulate it in a balanced manner - and concerns it to be delivered through the official record, if it concerns a mandatory one who is reported in the reporting room, under a very specific procedural regime, of course. But that's some first step that digitalization is trying to solve. But, of course, it is not an amendment that is alone. Amendment K5, as I said, I have already withdrawn, the Chamber of Deputies will vote on this. But the last point I would like to say is that no matter what action we take today, and the Chamber of Deputies will agree on any proposals, we will have a great task for the next parliamentary term, whether we are individual Members of the Government or members of the Constitutional Legal Committee or Members here at plenary. Those are partial steps. We will have to prepare new procedural regulations, we will have to prepare the civil order of the court. Currently, there is a substantive intention from 2017, but unfortunately, there have not been any further steps taken. I have information from the Ministry that a second version of the material intention is being prepared. But we will have to adopt a new civil order of justice and, at the same time, we will have to adopt a new enforcement order, I believe, where they will be incorporated, where really systemic changes will be made. Because much of the proposals today was also rejected in the opinions of the Ministry of Justice with the fact that they are too revolutionary and systemic changes. Okay, well, that's to be taken into account, I admit that these proposals are a large number and that today's procedure, today's vote, is very difficult. But we're gonna have to face it, we're gonna have to deal with the executions, we're gonna have to deal with the search procedures. Maybe not a feud. We're gonna have to deal with this in any case, and I hope there's some courage for it, because it's not gonna be easy at all. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention, and I am glad that even on April 16th, we will finally face it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u43	Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhováťhová will now appear, Mr Kohoutek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u44	Hello, honourable Members, I would like to read our comments for Tricolore and our position on this matter. Although the company would need a meaningful execution order, on which we all agree, the current amendment and amendments will have a very negative impact on creditors and will only continue to record dishonest debtors. We reject proposals that support the forgiveness of parts or even entire debts, because everyone will eventually pay them. Currently, this concerns, for example, the proposal of the so-called merciful summer. This would further protect a narrow part of people, but at the expense of the majority. Everyone's been chasing back the protection of debtors for the past few years, but it's starting to go too far. It must also be borne in mind that creditors are not only loan sharks, they are also homeowners, housing cooperatives, entrepreneurs, businessmen who did not voluntarily choose the creditor's position and whose debts will not soon be able to recover, or the effectiveness of their recovery will be significantly reduced. The proposal to further reduce the rewards of judicial executors is now mere populist talk that people are happy to hear. In fact, this will only lead to a further reduction in debt enforcement, which will create nothing more than a spiral of other and other debtors. Note to the executor's reward. In particular, for smaller claims, most of the debt goes to the law firm, not to the executor. That's another myth repeated over and over again. Executor gets paid only if he is successful, that means only if the debtor has paid something. In addition, in the case of merged receivables, he will still receive only one reward. Of this, they must cover the cost of all claims where nothing has been recovered, and according to statistics, most of them are. Further reduction of mobility executions will also only lead to deterioration of the situation and will only result in a reduction in enforcement once again. Our common goal should be the lowest possible debt - but not because of the forgiveness of debt to all - the protection of working people who create the values on which our countries stand. The execution order has been completed by more than 50 amendments, which unfortunately did not lead to less debt for our citizens, on the contrary. Non-systemic changes introduced by the state-sponsored left-wing parties lead to disproportionate protection of debtors, at the expense of creditors, and cause only further and further debt. We claim that wealth is to come from work and debts are to be paid. [[11.40 hours]] We also disagree with local jurisdiction or territoriality, which records across-the-board executioners. We are primarily concerned with creditors, and they should be able to choose, whether by reference, ethical code, enforcement success or by other criteria, who will enforce their debts. You can also use the argument: if you need to use the services of a lawyer or translator, simply anyone, you also want to have a choice and do not want to be assigned to you only according to your place of residence. You'll probably be interested in how successful he is, you'll be interested in his experience, references and so on. We lose this possibility by territoriality. If anyone argues that the enforcement proceedings are going to go down, it's total nonsense. In most cases, debtors are not at the addresses of their permanent residence, in the vast majority the city office is listed as a residence, while it is the time of the Internet, now we have a time of covido and also to limit meetings. Everything is moved to an e-mail or a telephone communication, so it doesn't matter where the executioner is from. Territoriality would ensure all executive authorities equally work regardless of whether the executor is good or not, considering that small authorities would probably not even be able to process it, large authorities would have to lay off because they would have significantly less work. The insolvency amendment has not long after the last one, when the fact that the debtor no longer has to repay 30 per cent of the claim broke. In addition, the debt relief period should now be reduced to three years, which I fundamentally disagree with. The creditor gets even less help in a much longer time. Combining executions would be a problem, too, because debtors already have claims on more executives. What kind of executor would handle the merged claims? The first one? Which office would be assigned additional executions? Again with the first one? These changes would not have helped the debtors, on the contrary they would have significantly affected creditors' rights and would have caused a significant decrease in the enforcement of claims, which would have resulted in a price increase in a number of services for honest and paying customers. When it comes to negative claims, it means small, such as the unpaid fare, which is spoken of so much, they are almost not sued. Mr Pelikán has already issued an adjudication in 2016, when he reduced the legal representation compensation, so first of all, when someone sues a small claim, the judgment is low, and second of all, since then, almost no one has dealt with the creditors because it simply doesn't pay off. Therefore, almost no one judges these claims anymore, so they do not enter into new executions. This is also related to the penultimate point, namely the trading of claims by transport undertakings. Nobody buys it anymore because it doesn't pay off. Debt amnesty is also complete nonsense, as all forgiven debts simply have to be paid, and we would all pay them in the end. It's totally demotivative and immoral. That's our position on why we don't support this, and I think I've explained it enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u45	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek will now speak in the general debate, Mr Navrkal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u46	Good morning, Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. Allow me to give you my view of the execution and the discussion of this amendment at all. Since I was a kid, I've been raised in the motto that there are no pies without a job, everyone is the maker of their luck, and when I can't do something, I just have to forgive myself, and unfortunately, every person can't have everything. I love the antiquity, of course Roman law, on which our still as well as functional Western civilizations stand. One of the basic principles of Roman law is: pacta sunt servanda, or that the treaties are to be observed, and vigilantibus iura, or the watchful belongs to the rights. Pacta sunt servanda, or contracts are to be respected, is not only when you make a loan agreement for example in a bank, but also that when you enter a subway or get on a bus, you have to buy a ticket because it is a form of concluding a travel contract. And if you don't have a ticket, you're gonna pay a fine because you didn't keep your contract. We're all talking about executions, like it's some kind of process involving every person who owes someone something. I would like to emphasise again, because unfortunately the pendulum of the protection of creditors and the protection of debtors does not want to be more skewed in my opinion in favour of debtors, I would like to say and again remind you that the execution is up to the ultima ratio or the extreme means in a situation where a creditor who has a claim and subsequently has an execution title cannot voluntarily be paid by someone who owes him. As a general rule, each execution is preceded by a call for payment of the debt, an attempt at an out-of-court settlement of the dispute. If there is no solution, such as the voluntary closure of the payment schedule, the creditor must bring an action in order to obtain an execution title, where, as a general rule, the proceedings, or given by our legal order, may be at least two-stage if the debtor is again vigilant of his rights and applies an appeal. If he doesn't use it or, for example, doesn't show up for legal proceedings, it's his problem that an action or judgment is issued for recognition or for default. And then, if the final enforceable title is, there is execution, if again, even after the enforceable title is given, the debtor does not pay himself, because there is always a time limit for him to do so voluntarily for the last time. We've all heard it repeatedly. In the Czech Republic there are roughly three quarters of a million to a million tops, but it is less than a million, people who are in execution. The Czech Republic has more than 10,5 million inhabitants. Well, I'm asking. 9.5 million people fulfill their obligations properly, pay their debts, live well in what they have, and a little less than a million people have gotten into execution, no matter the different ways, and that means they owe someone and they haven't paid what they should pay. From the previous debates, with some exceptions, it was said that the creditors are primarily the bad, non-banking, loan shark companies, but I would like to emphasise again that the creditors are, for example, munitions. A large part of you are mayors, deputy mayors, councillors, deputies. Every year you approve your municipal and municipal budgets, every year, I dare say, you turn every crown, and almost every municipal and almost every city solves million-dollar claims for the collection of municipal waste, for unpaid dog fees and for other charges. Every year, I'm sure there's a lot of citizens looking at you, why there's no pavement, why there's holes in the roads, why they're saving up for public lighting and all that. This is because each municipality has hundreds of thousands to millions of claims for an unpaid collection of municipal waste. They are a community of owners of housing units, which, by having claims on the repair fund, is decaying the housing fund and gradually creating a ghetto. They're health insurance companies. Many of you, I hope, almost all of you, support some form of charity, various foundations. You see it today and every day, there's some sick kid over there, he doesn't have a hard surgery because he just doesn't have the money. There is no money to pay for better medical resources, because health insurance companies also have, of course, millions and hundreds of millions of claims on health insurance. They are single mothers, where instead of pushing harder, we have to recover these debts, so instead we approve the Act on Substitute Maintenance, because even in the current situation, a number of these claims are inconvenient. [[11.50 hours]] They're also victims of crimes. Let me give you an example. He is a businessman who has done some kind of service, he will properly fake it, he has a claim of CZK 6,000. The client drew the service, was properly satisfied with it, accepted this claim and is to pay the sum of CZK 6 000 on the basis of the invoice issued voluntarily. They won't pay within the time limit. The businessman, the businessman, he's gonna challenge him properly. The client laughs in his face more or less, he won't pay. A businessman or businessman can get an execution title. To have a clear conscience, he'll challenge him again, so I have a respected client, an executional degree, pay me $6,000. The latter shall not pay. Well, here we go. There's a free executor competition today. More or less to the execution title itself in the form of a final payment judgment or order of payment, a common entrepreneur who does not have legal education, despite various models and similarly can do so without the cost of additional legal services. Today we still have a free competition of executors and, of course, the entrepreneur in question, who has a claim of 6,000, so he will get a job, contact the x executive authorities, and by criticizing and fighting against the free competition of executors, all or a large part of the colleagues here in the House will find an executor who will say, "Yes, dear client, dear sir, I will do the execution. I don't want any backup from you, if I can do it, I can do my job, my expenses. If I can't help it, it's my business risk, you're not gonna have any more costs and you're gonna write off the $6,000. Fellow pirát, I feel that my colleague Navrkal, through Mr President, said that territoriality should protect small, small creditors. So I ask: if we introduce territoriality, each executor will have a certain one, so this small businessman, a businessman, turns to the local executor who says to him after the Slovak model: "Dear Mr. Rightful, pay the advance, in Slovakia, I feel it's 60 euros, here it would be 2,000, maybe 3,000, pay the costs of execution and I might start dealing with it. Because the executor won't have the slightest reason to do anything without paying the advance in advance. So the legitimate creditor's gonna fucking change his mind if he pays $2,000, $3,000 to see that the claim doesn't come through. So again, I'm asking how the territoriality of the executives will protect and help small creditors? No! It will help to what my colleague Marek Benda said, and you were all wondering what he had to say that some of the proposals lead to debt not being paid. Well, they're not gonna pay, 'cause no one's gonna enforce these petty claims anymore, 'cause they're gonna fucking think about whether they're gonna pay $2,000, $3,000 deposit if they have $6,000, or they're gonna accept that he's gonna write the $6,000 off. And I'm asking, who's the villain? Is it the debtor who properly drew the service not paid, or is the villain the rightful one, who has been hard to long-term pursuit of his payment, or is the villain the executor, that legally legitimized in quotation marks the debt collector within the ultima ratio, or the extreme means, if it does not go well, then it must go in some legal way, does the claim have to be claimed? I think the villain is definitely not the executor or the legitimate one, but the debtor who didn't pay for it. If you're wondering who the legitimate one is, it's my example, that's why I'm talking about it. And it could be each of you, because each of you in good faith has probably lent 10,000, 20,000, mostly to a good word, and I don't doubt that many of you have a claim like this and you don't even solve it, because we're lucky to be able to survive the amount of 10,000 to 20,000, but there are single mothers, small businessmen, for whom it may be crucial. That's why I believe that real territoriality in this system doesn't solve anything. Regardless of the fact that if the compulsory ones really want to get back into the system, I believe that after several amendments made and agreed to the insolvency law, they have the chance, because after the last amendment, the obligation to pay 30% of the debt has already fallen. So who wants, works, tries to live decently and has a job, so asks for debt. Wellholt five years will live from month to month, but if he tries and if he means it honestly, as one of our former colleagues said, he'll really go back into that system. That's why I say that territoriality is really only about the distribution of the execution market, but on this example, which is textbook, those creditors who have 6,000, 10,000, 20,000, there's a vast majority, so executor territoriality doesn't solve anything. Perhaps the problem is that creditors will not really enforce anymore, because they will no longer find an executor who will say that this is their business risk. Then what happens? Yes, it will indeed happen that the number of ordered and running executions will fall, but it will not be because it has improved and justified the system for creditors and debtors, but it will be because many of these creditors will not pay off and simply these small claims that are still being enforced today will no longer be enforced. This was said by a colleague of Čižinský, through the President, that it would affect the entire society. Yes, as I said, no claims will be recovered for the collection of municipal waste - it will turn out to be decent citizens in the munitions. Transport companies' claims will not be recovered - the fleet will become obsolete. And it's one with another, and there's only one company, and if even banks don't enforce these small claims, then what's the point? Interest margins will increase, or bank charges will increase and, in turn, they will pay you what they handle properly and fulfill their obligations. Regardless of the fact that if territoriality were established, so... many of these institutions today, municipalities, health insurance companies and so on, they enforce those claims through some executive authorities, but if territoriality was introduced, of course this would increase the costs for creditors and they would write off a number of those claims, but at the end of the day, it would turn out to be more expensive for those who are fulfilling theirs, because business entities are obviously working with some risk management, with some assumed loss from various transactions, and if they know that the loss, or that they will increase their share of inexplicable fees, inexpensible claims, they will increase their fees even more so that they simply choose to do so on those who do their own and on time. So this is my overall view of the amendment to the Enforcement Order, and I would like to give a brief explanation of the fact that you have all received a number of e-mails regarding two amendments relating to the Mobiliar Enforcements, namely the amendment under number 7402 - Nacher, Výborný, Benda - and 7430 - Kohoutek, respectively Novák. Mobile execution: I would like to mention the advantages of Amendment 7430, under which I signed, or my colleague, Marek Novák, was loading it here. In both of these proposals for the modification and humanisation of the mobile executions, the obligation of the executor is introduced to take and keep audio recordings, so there is no difference. The difference is when it comes to adjusting the payment schedule. [[12.00 hours]] I would like to point out that nowhere in current substantive law is there any entitlement to the provision of a payment schedule. Both of these proposals introduce this, but my proposal, in turn, sets the maximum ceiling for the compulsory one to avoid mobiliar execution, namely that he pays his claim, or his commitment, within a period of two years. This is not in the proposal of my colleague Patrik Nacher and others. And I ask and say: One of the fundamental human rights is the right to a fair trial, and the right to a fair trial also says that everyone has the power of his right to some reasonable measure and time. In my opinion, this fair trial is not only for those who had a few stages and opportunities to pay their debt before, but I think the fair trial is also justified, and therefore, if we want to prevent us from expanding or expanding the form of mobillary executions, yes, let us introduce the possibility of a payment schedule, but again in some reasonable constraints, because it cannot happen that we will approve or the executive authorities will allow payment schedules to be five, six years, because I do not think it is fair for creditors. If the payment schedule is approved, yes, but let there be a reasonable limit on the two years that my amendment proposes. At the same time, I believe that my amendment is more humane also because my amendment contains an inventory of assets only in the event that the conditions for the payment schedule are not met, while Mr Nacher's proposal precedes the approval of the payment schedule of the inventory of assets itself. And at the final stage, I believe that my amendment is more favourable because the inventory according to my amendment is carried out only up to the amount of debt, not the inventory of the entire assets. Therefore, if someone has a movable property worth half a million and has a claim or will owe 140 000, in the case of my amendment, there will be an inventory of assets worth an adequate amount of the claim and the debtor will be free to carry on with the other property. So these are the two fundamental or main differences in the amendments relating to Mobilitarian executions. It is, of course, up to you which of the amendments will pass. Both of them are in favour of above all mandatory, so it is certainly not that I defend the rights of only those entitled, but in any case I want to emphasise and say that this country, thank God, is still not first and not worth the mandatory ones, but thank God, there are 9.5 million people in this country who live in my opinion as they should live, that is, I have so much and so much, I live for it and for it, I pay and I do everything I have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u47	Have a nice noon. Mr František Navrkal will now speak in the general debate, so far the last application for the general debate. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u48	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to mention my amendment here briefly again, but first I will be here by your means, Mr President, to respond again to my colleague Kohoutek, who unfortunately is leaving the O.R., but I would therefore briefly explain why we think the mechanism here is not ideal. And why is the market mechanism that works here now not ideal? So it's that it motivates executives who, of course, should and must legally enforce debts as much as possible, as the law allows them to. But that's how they're motivated to go beyond the law, often in order to get those execution degrees so that creditors can enforce their claims through them. That's why we think the mechanism should be removed here, so that the executors actually proceed purely according to the law, purely what the law allows them, and are not so motivated by any injustices. Of course, I don't want to touch most executors who wouldn't dare commit any iniquities, and notabene is headed there precisely. Of course, this is also closely related to my amendment, because I do not believe that if this proposed random... here we are constantly talking about territoriality, but the fact that perhaps the more important thing about the reform of the allocation of executions is not local jurisdiction, but rather the very fact that the market mechanism in the whole process is being removed. And I doubt that if this had worked, as we are proposing now, and it would have worked for some last decade, that we would have been here since 2011, when the Supreme Court acknowledged that if the execution had been initiated on the basis of an execution title consisting of some non-transparable arbitration clause, it would have been an unlawful execution, so we would have been here... for almost ten years now the problem would have persisted if the bailiffs had not been so motivated to go beyond the edge of the law in favour of creditors. I've been dealing with illegal executions here for the past year. Unfortunately, as I said, it's been going on for a long time, but since 2011, when the Supreme Court declared the injustice, it's actually been going on for a long time... As I would shorten it, the procedure is simply very slow, we still have tens of thousands of cases to investigate. Tens of thousands of cases where these people's rights are being trampled completely. It's totally against the rule of law. I've been trying to propose to the courts here in the past that they may have more resources in order to have higher personnel capacity to handle illegal executions and so on, but given that... I realize that we're now in some kind of health crisis that's here... and we're also in a crisis that's been caused by, like, changing the tax system, growing state debt and so on and so on, so I've been trying to figure out some way to deal with illegal executions with some minimal impact on the state budget. After discussing directly with the court workers who deal with this agenda, I have come to the conclusion that, in many cases, there are unnecessary delays in dealing with unlawful executions only by requiring a file from the courts, a relevant execution file from the executioners, and it is only given that they do not always have up-to-date information about the state of execution, and the process is therefore unnecessarily delayed. Therefore, in my amendment, which I submit with my colleague Valachová, colleague Kolářík, Farský, Feri and Hrnčíř each year, I propose that the courts receive electronically from the executors a report, in what state the execution is, that the courts actually take the first step here, if they want to deal with the unlawful executions, if they want to investigate a case, so that they can actually take the first step to secure some basic information, if the execution is going to go on and on and on, so that they don't have to do it, because the information will already be automatic. So I would ask you to help enforce this amendment, which you will find under D, at least to those courts that are actually trying to address this agenda, so help them. [[12.10 hours]] I can see all the arguments that have historically been made here by the Minister. I understand that the common problem is that the courts are not paying enough attention, which is also due to the fact that there are no deadlines. Those courts simply don't have a deadline for them to investigate the cases, so of course, they're primarily dealing with the things where they have the deadlines. But at least to those who find the time, we should try to make the process as easy as possible. So once again, under letter D, there is my amendment, which will make it easier for the courts to stop illegal executions and stop, even if there is a conservative estimate of at least thousands of cases where the rule of law is trampled here and there are illegal enforcements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u49	Now the factual point, Mr Pavel Blažek, is then prepared by Mr Jan Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u50	Thank you for the floor. We're not in a TV studio, I can throw a number of tens of thousands of unlawful executions, billions of unlawful executions, and the audience, of course, is impressed, and the host is satisfied with how he fights for some rights. What tens of thousands of unlawful executions? I can imagine if someone fakes an executioner's degree and goes with him to some bailiff. But how in God's name can we blame those invalid legal clauses or referees for some executor mob when the courts confirmed it all? It's not that the bailiff gets caught and goes straight, and after years, the Supreme Court, after the lower court says, "That's okay, so he said, "What you've been doing here so and so for a while, it's illegal." But the bailiffs themselves didn't do it. Let's talk about whether the courts were making good decisions, but no executor mob had the slightest influence. The courts confirmed it, let's talk about whether they were lax or stupid, but no bailiffs. They just did what the courts confirmed. And let's not pretend that if we limit the bailiffs, the courts will work better. Well, the opposite is true. And the pirates love to describe the '90s in some way. So the second description of the 1990s is that the execution of decisions was dependent on the state, or courts, and it led to the result. That means the most ridiculous debtor was in the '90s. Then there was some reaction from the state, that is, the bailiffs set up, and the market element between them was introduced there precisely because unfortunately the state was unable to respond to a huge amount of legitimate claims and the compulsory only laughed. Yes, in the course of this, some who have been given a piece of state power as private individuals have abused, that is true, but in this state, we are not living today and you are talking about something that does not exist. It always upsets me. And once again, the TV viewer will be happy as you talk beautifully, but about a world that doesn't exist. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u51	Two factual points are here. So Mr František Navrkal and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u52	Through the Vice-President here, illegal executions exist. Why don't you ask the secretary here, too? I'm willing to give you a full chart of these cases to investigate. A lot of illegal executions have stopped the courts, so it's not some imaginary problem. I didn't say anything like some executor mafia or anything like that, I'm not pushing anybody around like that. I'm just saying, the way the system is set up now, even in 2011 The Supreme Court ruled that some arbitration clauses, which the court did not examine, simply decided -- well, he reviewed them... Well, not the specific one. He the Supreme Court has just reviewed it as a blank, said: Under certain conditions arbitration clauses are not valid title, and now courts have to discuss individual cases there and assess whether it falls into this category or does not fall into this category. If it falls into that category, then we need to stop the execution, perhaps we can agree on that. I don't understand your point. You don't agree that there are executions that the court has finalized - the Supreme Court - or that if it is to be observed that these executions are carried out on the basis of non-transparable unlawful arbitration clauses, so they should continue and that we should not simplify this to those courts, the handling of this agenda? I don't understand. I believe we agree that the rule of law is not to be trampled here. I don't understand your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u53	Mr Lubomír Volný is now preparing for Mr Pavel Blažek's factual comment. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u54	Of course there is an executor mafia in this country, just as there is a judicial mafia, and just as there is a police mafia. Any minute now, somebody's gonna condemn some judge for taking bribes, any minute now, our GIBS here is gonna expose some cop who was involved in organized crime, and we should tell each other what the mob is. Mafia, that's the rise of organized crime into state structures. And if you're saying that there isn't a mob in this state, I think that's an extremely naive approach, because any minute now, we're gonna miss some big-earned diary in which the mob can just read how it works. So in a country where you're not even able to find out which judges are the shareholders of the enforcement companies, you can be absolutely sure that if a judge can be in conflict of interest, because the system allows him to do so, then be absolutely sure that there are a lot of judges in the Czech Republic who are in conflict of interest and that they decide in favour of friendly execution companies. And that's just the mob. Lying to ourselves here that there is no organized crime in executions, justice or police in this country is a lie to citizens right in their face and right in their eyes. I'm sure these mobsters are sitting among us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u55	Mr Pavel Blažek, Mr Patrik Nacher, will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u56	I thank my colleague Navrkal through you. I didn't plan a point. I just wanted to say that everyone here can say that there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of unlawful executions, but no one can measure it. I can say that over the last 30 years, millions of legitimate executions have been. I can say that, and I'll do it anytime. Millions in 30 years. As far as the arbitration clause is concerned, I said only so much that these did not result from the fact that there are market relations between executives, which was said by my colleague, because the courts were all over it, that is all. So it's just nonsense that just doesn't come together. I'm not at all in favour of there being unlawful arbitration clauses, but the one who tolerated and caused it isn't the executors. Nor were they involved in these agreements, the participants, I stress, the whole thing. That would end the controversy because there's no point. I don't want to dream at the microphone. Unfortunately, I'm 52 years old, so I'm living in reality, and I'm gonna let the younger generation dream like the ones they dreamed before them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u57	Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr František Navrkal, will be prepared to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, a brief remark to my colleague Navrkal on arbitration clauses and unlawful executions. I think it's a beautiful example that it has nothing to do with territoriality and this. Because here, both the Justice Department, the Prime Minister, Mr Farský has been involved in this - for years - I must say this fairly - so they call on the courts to stop these unlawful executions automatically on the basis of unlawful arbitration clauses. Even the Justice Department, if I recall correctly, pre-defined some 130,000 such executions, sent them to all the courts, and those courts are to be held. [[12.20 hours]] If we're dealing with a legislative, executive and judicial division here, I don't know what a politician is supposed to do more than push it to make sure the Minister isn't charged - or any one of us - that it's too much for law enforcement. But in my opinion, it's a beautiful example of the fact that those damn arbitration clauses have disappeared, at least with those credit agreements, and that's the Consumer Credit Act from 1. 12. 2016. That's what I'm talking about, it's been growing gradually, and that's exactly the typical load from last time. They can no longer be arbitration clauses from December 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u59	Mr František Navrkal is now prepared for a factual remark and Mr Jan Farský is still prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u60	That, I suppose, was a misunderstanding, through Mr President, Mr Blažek, which you are not here. Well, for the rest of us, I guess it was a misunderstanding. I didn't claim because, of course, I don't know who invented those arbitration clauses, those unlawful arbitration clauses, but I certainly didn't say anything here in the sense that it was invented by an executor, I don't know. Anyway, I think that this is related to the allocation of executions, because at the moment that we've had judgments here since 2011, that there are some illegal executions, some non-discriminatory arbitration clauses, so if I'm gonna be a bailiff and I'm gonna have a case here that matches this, then I should probably turn myself to the court myself, if I were fair, I'd act legally, I'd balance the interests of both the debtor and the creditor, so I'm gonna initiate the court on my own - I've got an unlawful execution here, it's got to stop. But for that, the bailiffs are now not motivated and, of course, such an executor, who would be so soft on the debtor in quotation marks, so maybe he should have a problem with the market. And as for what Mr. Nacher said here, I'm giving here an opportunity for him to intervene as a legislator. It can intervene, for example, by voting in favour of my amendment, which at least to those courts that want to deal intensively with it, so it will make it a little easier for them. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u61	Mr Jan Farský will now appear and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Professor Válková here for expressing her support for the amendment, which is under the letter J1, which makes sense that if we approve this law, those futile executions will be stopped, those who are five, ten years old and simply have nothing to do with them, only all of them are burdened with employers through executors all the way to society, so they will simply be stopped three years earlier. I would like to thank the professor for expressing her support for this, and I hope that this proposal will also receive your support. I'm going to mention one more that I think is important because it's good for everyone again, and that's the J2. Because she says - she motivates people to work in execution. This is different from a government proposal that actually motivates them to be placed in a grey zone for three years, not working, not paying off any debts, not paying off anything to their creditors, not fulfilling their obligations, and then they could get to the point of having some executions canceled as in vain. So I would like to ask for these two rational, economically, socially and universally advantageous proposals to pay attention to them, and if I am not the authority enough, so that the authority may be to you by Professor Válková, whom I thank for her support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u63	Mr Marek Výborný will now appear as Mr Marek's last envoy. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I listened carefully, although I had many times to turn myself in with a factual remark, I wanted to maintain my role as rapporteur. However, I would like to conclude by going back to some things in the debate, and it will be very brief, because I am glad that today we will get to the vote on this important press and send it to Parliament's upper chamber. Thank you for the debate, thank you for all the opinions that have been expressed here, because I think that the debate was partly certainly professional. I want to make it perfectly clear that none of us here will vote in the next few minutes on whether or not debts should be paid, it really isn't. I think we're all gonna sign up for what our esteemed colleague, Marek Benda, just pay a clear premium: debts are due. That's a clear word to the public. However, what we are debating here today and what we are going to vote on is a little different, and I want to say for myself, the world is simply not black and white. There were voices that were beating for the position and rights of creditors, in the sense that, of course, the creditor has the right to earn his debt, and, if possible, the maximum or total principal and all accessories and periodic penalty payments and interest and fines and so on and so on. On the other hand, there were, of course, voices that creditors perceive more by looking through their fingers or directly like those creditors who have made history through various scumbag practices, and the debtor is a sacrifice that we must save and help at all costs at the expense of those creditors. And I'm saying for myself, neither the extreme, nor the scanner, nor the lengthening, is right. In my opinion, just as the world is not black and white and it is not just Mažňák, it is only Losna, the world is such that we should always seek a balanced solution to help those who are responsible for their debt and may have gotten into it with their naiveness, stupidity, irresponsibleness, but are interested in not being in a debt spiral that will put them into a problem that will never be solved forever. And that's the goal of all the things we're going to vote on here. And on the other hand, we must never forget that creditors - and now it doesn't matter if it is a voluntary or involuntary creditor - also have certain rights, and if these rights are trampled on, it is wrong. A balanced solution must always be sought. And I'm just gonna repeat what I said on Wednesday. We're going to vote on points where we're dealing with the past, what we're dragging from the past. And I am glad that today I have read in the media the support of the Prime Minister many suggestions under which I have signed either myself or with my colleague Patrik Nacher, and when it is repeatedly referred to as colleagues from the ODS MP - he has become a kind of modern custom here that it is necessary to show them when they are spoken of by executions - so it is necessary to say that many changes that concern the past, but also the future, colleagues from the ODS have already supported them during the constitutional and legal committee negotiations and will support them here at the vote, because we have, of course, coordinated these things in the framework of the CALO coalition. And I'm glad that support has the principle of a "graceful summer" as well. I just want to point out, it's a hand from the state, it's us legislators, but it's still not debt forgiveness. It's every debtor's obligation to pay the entire debt, the entire principal. If this is a private relationship, then, of course, one more time. [[12.30 hours]] So no one here can say, "You've approved something, which means the debts won't be paid." It's not like that, it's not true. It's a one-time thing, it's nothing that should pay here for a year. Note that we are talking about a single time, in the singular of "merciful summer," one, not "merciful years." And then there's the other thing, and that's the future. We have a number of proposals here, and it's a good thing that we're going to create, maybe a little rewinding, room for enforcement proceedings, for debt recovery in the future. I am convinced that there is a reason for this after years, and it is right that we are dealing with this. It is a question not only of humanization, such as the mobiliar executions that are presented here, and some other individual proposals, such as elements of electronization, because it also significantly simplifies and accelerates the whole process, but then it is the system things that concern here repeated and mentioned territoriality, which, yes, is in a way some sort of internal duel between executives. And I don't see why I should be here defending the interests of the five, the ten largest enforcement agencies or, on the contrary, the interests of the rest of those small authorities. I believe that we should also look for a balanced environment in this, while also helping to create an environment for the future. By approving territoriality, nothing will change at all tomorrow. The trial will, of course, be delayed, and then it will be prepared to have rules for fair execution. That is why I come within the balance that I have been talking about since the beginning, with a proposal for consumer territoriality that combines both. It combines leaving the creditor's right to choose his executor in case he enforces a business person, there is often more demanding and there is no reason to deny that right to the creditor. Similarly, the free choice of one execution office for small municipalities and for involuntary creditors such as housing cooperatives or housing owners' associations is left. It's perfectly justified there. They are often involuntary creditors who are not to blame for not paying one of the tenants, for example, and it is a good thing that they will be able to choose an office that will help them recover the debt. But at the same time, we maintain the principle to simplify, clarify, by the way, also debug the courts, it is also an important aspect and, unfortunately, prevents quite frequent excesses from some executors, and far from all. There's no way I want to put everyone in one bag here, but we know it not only from the media space, but I'm also being approached by many people with examples of the fact that in the context of debt recovery, those players are really on the edge or maybe beyond the edge of the law. And if we introduce the principle of one debtor - one bailout for the rest of the debt recovery within the enlarged consumer territory, I think that we can cultivate this process in an appropriate way to adopt a dramatic change not only to the past, but also to the future. And the last thing I want to mention, he said it to Pavel Blažek, I think Marek Benda also: it's essential that where it makes sense, people don't stay in execution, but they go into the debt process because there's absolutely no point in having a man who has ten, fifteen executions. It's supposed to be in the process of debt relief, it's the benefit, it's the handshake, when after that time, whether it's three years, in some cases five years, he could start a new life not in the gray zone, but in the zone, which, of course, is advantageous for the state, because the person will then pay taxes, make payments and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, so much of my summary and allow me to conclude by signing up for the third reading of the amendment, which I, as rapporteur in agreement with the Minister, submit under Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which concerns effectiveness. This is the possibility when the amendment of the bill can be loaded in the third reading. This is a response to the various amendments that were read at second reading. The amendment is set out in the system under House document 8181. In order to know what we will be voting on at the beginning of these legislative technical adaptations, this proposal is essentially adopted by Amendment B6, which means the effectiveness of the Act will be from 1 January 2022, with the following exceptions: if any form of local jurisdiction, namely territoriality, is therefore proposed by B1, B2 or E7, if K5 is withdrawn, then these changes will be postponed by 18 months, or will become effective on the first day of the 18th calendar month following its publication. Furthermore, in this arrangement we touch § 43 letters. Having regard to the proposal This is a proposal, and I quote literally, "the addition of a judicial executor's mandate to conduct the execution of an indication of the obligation to be enforced." It is part of the original House press 545. He's touching the practice. That is where it is proposed to be effective on the first day of the 12th calendar month following its publication. Furthermore, by 18 months, the effectiveness of the impact of the amendment under the letter J3 of colleague Jan Farský, who is also familiar with this, would be postponed and concerns the transfer of the central record of executions from the Executor Chamber to the Ministry of Justice. Should this amendment be approved, it will also have an effect postponed by 18 months. And, of course, the designs under the letters A.X.A10 and B4, that's the "graceful summer." There is a proposed effectiveness of 90 days after the declaration of the law so that we can get a one-off effect of three plus three months. So much for my legislative application to proposal 8181. Under the Rules of Procedure, we will vote this in the first order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u65	I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word? Designer? The rapporteur? You're interested, so Madam Secretary is interested in speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u66	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to talk here anymore, I think we're all tired of this, and the interest is that the law should be adopted in some meaningful form, which I believe you will certainly agree on, and it will benefit the humanization of executions in the Czech Republic. [[Long]] But I would like to propose to Mr Excellent to postpone efficiency - I am 100% in agreement with that proposal, so thank you. [[to express]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u67	[[Gong.]] We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't going to be easy, so I'd like your attention, please. First, before we approve the voting procedure, I would introduce you to her. It has been made available to you under the number of House document 545/9 as the resolution of the Guarantee Committee of 17 March 2021. I will then always give a brief description of the substantive content of the proposed amendment, which we will be voting on, so that you have an overview, so that it is not just a somewhat anonymous number. So now I would only dare to present a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. We will vote on this, and then I will present the individual proposals, including the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. As the first point, we would vote on legislative and technical amendments under Section 95 para. 2, that's the efficiency I mentioned earlier. [[12.40 hours]] Furthermore, we will vote on three systemic amendments to the so-called territoriality from the widest downward direction. First, then, the proposal by my colleague Lukáš Kolářík and others - with permission I will always say only the first name, that is the proposal under the letter E7, pure regional locality. Subsequently, on the proposal under letter B2, consumer net territory, Mr Marek Výborný. And then, if it is not accepted, it always does, that is, if the E7 is not adopted, they become unvoting subsequent versions. We will vote on consumer territoriality extended by the involuntary ties of creditors under letter B1, once again the proposal of Marek Výborný. Then the fifth vote falls if, at the beginning, before we begin to vote, I assume, Mr Vice-President, if we agree to withdraw proposal K5 by Dominik Feri, as he put it here in the debate, that is the wrong territoriality, so this vote will be skipped. And we will continue with the proposals under the letters I1, I2, I4, I6 to I19 by colleague Helena Válková. 7. voting under the letters I3, I5, again by colleague Helena Válková. As the 8th vote, the proposal under the letter B5 of Marek Výborný. Subsequently, as the 9th letter of J and the .1.2 proposal by a kolega of Jan Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u69	Please, rapporteur, I'm just gonna ask because it's quite long. Do you need to read the procedure, or do you have it in paper? I'll ask the O.R. Because the rapporteur here would have to read it, it's 49 points. I'm asking if there's anyone who wants us to read the whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u70	I'm registering, Mr. Vice-President, I'm sorry to enter your word as managing officer. However, my colleague Táňa Malá shows that she would like me to read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u71	Well, in that case, yes, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u72	So can we continue? [[The President agrees.]] Thank you. As the 10th vote, the vote will be on the J2 proposal by a colleague of Jan Farský. Subsequently, the 11th vote, letter F2.5 and F3.2 of colleague Tomáš Kohoutek. 12th vote, letter G3, G12 of Patrik Nacher's colleague and others. 13. votes under the letters G1, G2, G4 to G11, G13 and G16, again by colleagues Patrik Nacher. The 14th vote is Amendment 3 of Marek Výborný. The 15th vote, the amendment under G14 and G15 by my colleague Patrik Nacher. As the 16th vote, Amendment C18 by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. The 17th vote, Amendment F1.2 by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. 18. the vote, Amendment 1 by my colleague Zuzana Ožanová. 19th vote, amendments under C3 and C22 by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. The 20th vote will be amendments C2, followed by C4 through C21 and C23, again by my colleague Zuzana Ožanová. Next comes the amendment under the letter B7 Marek Výborný. As the 22nd vote, we will vote on the proposal under letter D by my colleague František Navrkal. Subsequently, the amendment of E6 to Lukáš Kolářík will come as a 23rd vote. In the order of the 24th vote, the decision on the amendment shall be taken under the letter B4 Marek Výborný. 25th vote, Amendment 1 by Lukáš Kolářík. As the 26th in turn, the amendment E2 will be tabled again by colleague Lukáš Kolářík. 27th vote, Amendment E3, again by colleagues Lukáš Kolářík. Then E4, in quotation marks from the same stable, i.e. from my colleague Lukáš Kolářík, 28th vote. 29th vote, letter E5, again by colleagues Lukáš Kolářík. And the 30th vote will be on the E8 proposal, again by colleagues Lukáš Kolářík. The fact that these are separate votes is justified by the fact that they are factually different amendments. 31. in the order of the amendment under the letter H by colleague Kateřina Valachová. I apologise here, because again at the beginning, as we will put the vote on the withdrawal of the K5 proposal by my colleague Feri, as well as here in the general debate at the third reading, my colleague Kateřina Valachová asked for the withdrawal of this proposal, which is unlikely to be voted on, we will deal with this before the vote begins. 32. in order will be Amendment J3 of colleague Jan Farský. Likewise, the 33rd vote on Amendment J4, again a colleague of Jan Farský. And until the third time, the 34th vote under J5, again from Jan Farský's workshop. The 35th vote will then be on the letter K1, Mr Dominik Feri's amendment. In the 36th vote, the amendment to the letter K2 will be put to the decision again from the workshop of Mr Dominik Feri. As well as the 37th vote, where it is the amendment letter K3. 38th vote, that will be Mr Tomáš Kohoutek's amendment under F2.1. 39. F2.3, again colleague Tomáš Kohoutek. 40th vote under letters F2.2, F2.4, again colleague Tomáš Kohoutek. 41th vote under letter F2.6, again colleague Tomáš Kohoutek. The 42nd vote will be the letters F2.7, F2.8, F2.9 and F2.10, again colleague Tomáš Kohoutek. The 43rd vote should be the vote on Amendment F2.11 again by colleagues Tomáš Kohoutek. 44th vote F3.1, again colleague Tomáš Kohoutek. As with the 45th vote, letter F4.1, F4.3, again Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. 46th vote, coming to an end, colleague Tomáš Kohoutek, letter F4.2. 47th vote, Amendment B6 of Marek Výborný, it is the effectiveness of the law, if I assume, as the Minister also said, recommending an opinion on this legislative technical issue, then this proposal becomes unvoteable afterwards. The 48th vote will be a vote on a comprehensive amendment, which emerged from the constitutionally-legal committee under letter A, the already known House document 7155. By voting formally at the third reading, we must confirm what the House has already voted for during the second reading. Finally, of course, the vote will come on the bill as a whole. To calm you down a little bit, a number of votes are mutually exclusive, so that in the finals there will probably not be 49 of them, because some proposals will become unvoted if others pass, and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u73	We will therefore vote on the proposal for a procedure as presented by the rapporteur. I'm gonna go on, but I think we're all here, I've already been gonging. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 105, 106 Members registered, for 102, against none. The motion was accepted. So I therefore ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to present to us the various amendments, to give us an opinion before voting on them, as well as the Minister will also give us an opinion. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. First, we must deal with the three proposals that have been taken back. I forgot one, I'm sorry, it's the withdrawal of the proposal under letter A4, which is part of the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee number 545/9, and it's the part that concerned the protected account. We're taking back something we've already approved as the House, three months, two months ago. I shall therefore ask the first vote, to withdraw formally Amendment A4, a protected account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u75	Madam Secretary, the Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 106, 104 Members registered, for 103, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u76	Thank you. We would now vote on the withdrawal of the amendment under the letter K5, false territoriality, colleagues Dominik Feri, as requested in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u77	The Minister's position? [[I agree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 107, 104 Members registered, for 102, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u78	Thank you, and in the third time we will vote on the withdrawal of the amendment, which was mentioned under the letter H, colleague Kateřina Valachová, which amended matters concerning the amount of social security premiums. My colleague Valachová asked for this proposal to be withdrawn in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u79	The Minister's position? [[I agree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 104 Members registered, for 103, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share one more piece of information with you. On the basis of the debate on the constitutionally-legal committee, following a consultation with the Minister, I would also like to inform you that, if an amendment E7 or B2 or B1 is approved, these are the territorialities, as I will propose to the rapporteur to interrupt the third reading, for purely legislative reasons, we will need to review the other amendments, find a collision and vote can continue next week in the course of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So I consider it fair and serious to introduce you to this as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u81	So let's get to know the points that we're going to vote on now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u82	Now, as the first vote, we are voting on House document 8181, which was loaded under Section 95 para. The law on rules of procedure in the framework of legislative technical adaptations at third reading and concerns the effectiveness of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u83	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 104 Members registered, for 103, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u84	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter E7 of Lukáš Kolářík and others, the introduction of regional local jurisdiction of executors, she pure territoriality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u85	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm starting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u86	I'll take the liberty of giving the opinions of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so far it's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u87	Okay, yes. I am terminating the vote (110). Please, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. With that efficiency, I don't think it was relevant, we didn't change it. Here is the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee that does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u89	And the Minister's position, dissent... [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 111, 103 Members registered, for 39, against 24. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u90	We will now vote on the amendment under the letter B2 of Marek the Výborný. This is a proposal of consumer territoriality, in this first case without extension of involuntary ties of persons on the part of creditors. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u91	Now the Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 112, 103 Members registered, for 43, against 11. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u92	The next vote will be on the amendment under letter B1, again from my person, i.e. Marek the Výborný, consumer territory extended by involuntary associations of persons such as small municipalities, housing cooperatives, members' communities. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u93	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 113, 102 Members signed in for 44, versus 7. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u94	Thank you. Then we can continue. Amendment K5 has been withdrawn, and we are therefore going to vote on the amendments by fellow Member Helena Válková under I1, I2, I4, I6 to I9. They concern advances on the costs of execution and stopping executions. This is a follow-up amendment to the abolition of compulsory advances, but also, for example, the proposal explicitly provides for an obligation to pay the costs of execution when stopping execution in the absence of the debtor and others. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u95	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 114, 104 Members voted in favour of 1, against 46. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u96	Furthermore, we have a vote on the amendments under the letters I3 and I5 of my colleague Helena Válková. Again, this concerns advances on the costs of execution and stopping executions. The amendment calls for an advance, even if no property is found. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u97	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 115, 104 Members signed in, in favour of 1, against 53. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u98	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter B5 of Marek the Výborný. It's an adjustment to stopping useless debauchery executions. This concerns the amendment then by colleagues Patrik Nacher, Marek výborný and others. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u99	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 116, 104 Members registered, 99 against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u100	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under J1.1 and J1.2 by Mr Jan Farský. This is the stopping of apparently unenforceable executions with partially retroactive effect. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u101	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 117, 104 Members logged in, for 34, versus 16. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u102	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter J2 of my colleague Jan Farský. It's about rationalizing stopping executions. This amendment provides for an obstacle to the cessation of execution if the property is established or secured sufficient to cover at least the first execution costs. Newly, this obstacle to the cessation of execution would concern only property of immovable property. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u103	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 118, 104 Members signed in for 30, versus 6. The motion was denied. Mr Jan Farský to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u104	Thank you. I would just like to say for the record that I voted in favour when voting 111, but I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote, I'm just stating for the tape screen how it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u105	Okay. Then please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u106	Thank you. We will now move on to the vote on the amendment under F2.5 and F3.2 by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. It concerns restrictions on stopping executions. The amendment limits the process of stopping executions. The basic time for a test of ineffective recovery is shifted to six years, then three years and again three years. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u107	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 119, 104 Members signed in, for 62, against 21. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u108	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under G3 and G12 by colleagues Patrik Nacher, myself and others. This concerns recording calls from the executioner, or the obligation to record all calls regarding execution proceedings and recording records in the execution file. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u109	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 120, 104 Members registered, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u110	Thank you. We will now vote on the parts under G, G1, G2, G4 to G11, G13 and G16 of Patrik Nacher's colleagues, Marek Výborný and others, limiting the Mobiliar Enforcements in respect of situations worthy of consideration, as described here also in the debate. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted, or without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u111	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 121, 104 Members registered, for 91, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u112	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under letter B3, indicating the overall enforcement obligation in the central enforcement record. Compared to the present time when only the principal is recorded, the total amount recovered would be recorded. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u113	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 122, 104 Members registered, for 102, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u114	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under G14 and G15 by colleagues Patrik Nacher, Marek výborný and others. This is a registration of the execution of movable items in the central enforcement record and, at the same time, the deletion of data from the record after execution of the collection of movable items. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u115	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 123, 104 Members registered, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u116	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under letter C18 by my colleague Zuzana Ožanová. This relates to the entry in the central enforcement record and, on the one hand, the obligation to update data on the amount of cash recovery always at 31 December and the rule on the provision of data on the authorised central enforcement record. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u117	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 124, 104 Members registered, for 101, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u118	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter F1.2 by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, which releases compulsory advances on the costs of execution. In fact, this preserves the current state of affairs. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted, or without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u119	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 125, 104 Members entered, for 55, against 31. The proposal was adopted Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u120	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under letter C1 by my colleague Zuzana Ožanová. This is the repeal of the measure in the original version, which was also linked to the management concentration. This concerns what has been adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u121	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 126, 104 Members registered, 99 against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u122	Thank you. Amendments C3 and C22 by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová have become unvoted because we have just approved Amendment F1.2 by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. We will therefore vote on the amendments under C2, C4 to C21 and C23 by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Again, these are legislative technical changes related to the release of the management concentration and some corrections to legislative technical errors. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u123	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 127, 104 Members registered, for 103, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u124	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter B7 of Marek the Výborný. This is a compulsory claim for the issue of an electronic file and information on the recovery on request and only for the first time. For the second time and in other cases, it would have been charged. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u125	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 128, 104 Members registered, for 68, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u126	Thank you. The amendment by my colleague František Navrkal under letter D thus becomes unvoting and we can skip it. So we will move on to the proposal of my colleague Lukáš Kolářík under the letter E6. This applies to the reduction of the compensation for the execution of executions if they are from one debtor to one executioner. We will vote in two options, please. First in variant 1, when the remuneration is limited to three supervised executions, and then in variant 2, where it is limited to five. Of course, if variant 1 passes, variant 2 becomes unvoting. The opinion of the constitutionally-legal committee on variant 1, which is to limit it to three executions, is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u127	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 129, 104 Members registered, for 30, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u128	We will now vote on option 2. I still owe you the information that there are 10 executions in my original proposal and my colleague Patrik Nacher. We are now voting on option 2, so that the compensation will be for five execution procedures, and it will be without compensation. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee in this case is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u129	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 130, 104 Members registered, for 102, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u130	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter B4 of colleague Marek Výborný, sorry, it is I. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Graceful summer. Termination of previously initiated executions against private-lawed persons. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted, or without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u131	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 131, 104 Members signed in for 37, versus 3. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u132	Thank you. The amendment under the letter E1 of colleague Lukáš Kolářík, the so-called open date, or mandatory publication of basic information on executions in the central register, is now on the table every three months updated by the executive chamber. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u133	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 132, 104 Members registered, for 80, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u134	Thank you. We will now proceed with the amendment E2 by Mr Lukáš Kolářík. This is a rationalization of maintenance recovery. The recovery of future maintenance, which is currently possible up to five times the annual maintenance rate, is turning into a quarter of the annual maintenance rate. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u135	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 133, 104 Members signed in, for 11, against 45. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u136	Thank you. We will continue with the amendment E3 by my colleague Lukáš Kolářík. He responds with this proposal to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in the sense that half of the remuneration of the Integrated Rescue System members granted in connection with deployment during the pandemic period will be inconvenient in execution. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted, or without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u137	The Minister's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u138	I agree with you, but legally poorly written, so disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u139	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 134, 104 Members registered, 78 against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u140	Thank you. We're gonna ask for the Senate's synergies and any adjustments, aren't we, Madam Secretary? [[- That's it.]] Now we have an amendment under the letter E4 of my colleague Lukáš Kolářík. It relates to the inextricability of the pension bonus, i.e. between claims outside the enforcement of the decision, a supplementary pension supplement is added to mitigate some of the injustices caused by the Communist regime, or the resistance participants for the creation and liberation of Czechoslovakia and some survivors of them. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u141	The Minister's position? [[I agree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 135, 104 Members registered, for 94, against none. The proposal was adopted Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u142	Thank you. We now have an amendment under the letter E5 of my colleague Lukáš Kolářík, which introduces a judicial fee at the start of the execution. The court fee at the opening of the execution procedure is CZK 250. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u143	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 104 Members registered, for 21, against 17. The application was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u144	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter E8 by Mr Lukáš Kolářík, proposing a reduction in the enforcement fees. Executors' remuneration would be reduced at the base rate of 15 to 10 per cent for recovery to 50 million, up to 250 million to 5 per cent and up to 1 per cent for recovery. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u145	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 137, 104 Members registered, for 39, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u146	Thank you. Kateřina Valachová's amendment under the letter H was withdrawn, so we will move on to the amendment under the letter J3 of Jan Farský. He proposes this proposal to transfer the operation management and administration of central enforcement records from the Executive Chamber to the Ministry of Justice. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u147	The Minister's position? [[Absolutely unadvisable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 138, 104 Members registered, for 28, against 53. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u148	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment under the letter J4 of Jan Farský, who proposes that representatives of the Police of the Czech Republic should always be involved in the acquisition of the inventory in the case of absence of the debtor. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u149	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 139, 104 Members signed in for 29, against 43. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u150	Thank you. We now have an amendment under the letter J5 of my colleague Jan Farský, which gives the opportunity to stop the execution of the decision after the auction. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u151	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 140, 104 Members registered, for 36, against 27. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u152	We will now vote on the amendment under the letter K1 of my colleague Dominik Feri. This concerns a decision on a matter without a regulation of negotiations only with the express consent of the parties. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u153	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 141, 104 Members signed in, for 15, against 26. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u154	Thank you. And now we have an amendment under the letter K2 of my colleague Dominik Feri, which is already being removed in the debate, or that in some cases it is possible to take advantage of the judicial enforcement of the decision instead of the judicial executor. The motion therefore leaves only the agenda of execution in the courts. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u155	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 142, 104 Members registered, for 22, versus 37. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u156	Thank you and we now have an amendment under the letter K3 of my colleague Dominik Feri, which leads to the establishment of a central official record and to making delivery more effective. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u157	The Minister's position? [[It's excessive. I disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 143, 104 Members entered, for 31, against 10. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u158	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would just like to point out, with all due respect and respect, I think, Madam Secretary, that we should no longer comment on excess or anything else in this section, but say an opinion. Thank you. We will vote on the amendment under the letter F2.1 by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek - the introduction of the right to refuse to carry out an act in the event of no deposit being lodged. The current wording of the amendment to the Enforcement Order deletes this right, the amendment by Mr Kohoutek actually wants to maintain the status quo. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee was not adopted, or without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u159	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 144, 104 Members voted in favour of 49, against 23. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u160	Thank you. The amendment under letter F2.3 of my colleague Tomáš Kohoutek is unvoteable because we have adopted the amendment by Mr Ožanová C14, so that we will skip it. And we can go to the vote on the amendments, as well as colleagues Tomáš Kohoutek, under the letters F2.2 and F2.4. It's a follow-up to the release of mandatory advances. This proposal shall abolish the compulsory advances at the beginning of the enforcement procedure. The subsequent cancellation is then linked to § 55 para. 6. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u161	Now the MP has Navrkal. If it's for the vote, I'll give you the floor immediately. [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u162	So I'm just, uh, voting 144, I'm against it, I've got a pro on high. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u163	Okay. So, the secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 145, 104 Members registered, for 49, against 21. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u164	Thank you. The proposal under letter F2.6 of my colleague Kohoutka is unvoteable because an amendment was adopted by my colleague Ožanová C16. We will therefore proceed to the vote under the letters F2.7, F2.8, F2.9 and F2.10, by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. Again, this concerns mandatory advances. If a mandatory advance is cancelled, the settlement method shall be determined. The executor's obligation to issue and send a mandatory order to cover the costs of execution is hereby waived with a call for voluntary execution. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u165	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 146, 104 Members entered, for 57, against 24. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u166	Thank you. We will now vote on the amendment by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek under F2.11. This is a follow-up amendment to the release of mandatory advances. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u167	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 147, 104 Members signed in for 64, versus 26. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u168	Thank you. The vote on the proposal under letter F3.1 by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek is unvoted because a proposal by Mr Ožanová C15.X2 was adopted. That is why we will move on to the next vote of Tomáš Kohoutek F4.1, F4.3 - again it is unvoted because we have already discussed recording calls and approved according to the proposal of Mr Nacher and Mr Výborný. Similarly, the unvoted amendment F4.2 - the restriction of the mobile executions of Mr Kohoutek, because we have approved the version of Mr Nacher and Mr Výborný. So we can vote... we have approved, sorry, we have approved the effectiveness of the legislative technical modifications, as it was read in the third reading, the proposal under letter B6 becomes unvoted. And we can get to the penultimate vote of this press, the amendment under A. This is a comprehensive amendment that emerged from the negotiations of the constitutionally-legal committee on 23 September 2020 under the House's press 545/4. All other proposals have been voted today in the wording of this amendment. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is logically recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u169	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 148, 104 Members registered, for 83, against none. The motion was accepted. [[Member of Montenegro reporting.]] So, Mr. Ambassador, you guys to the vote? No? Mr. Cernohorsky. [[Mr. Cernohorsky wishes to take a break for the Pirate Club. He's talking off the mike.]] During the vote? Before the final vote, yes. That's right. Wait a minute. So all the proposals have been voted on and we should now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. And now, on behalf of the Pirates' MP's club... Wait, so let's vote first. Mrs Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u170	Mr President, I just, colleagues, colleagues, apologize. 139th vote, only for the tape screen, I will not question it. I voted in favour. I'm late for high school. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u171	To the vote, Mr. Ambassador? Mr. Polanský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u172	So I'm going to the vote. Voting number 116, I voted in favour of, I don't know why, I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u173	Please, Mr. Polanský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u174	Thank you for the floor. I voted in favour of the 112 vote. I'm late for high school. I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u175	So that's it for the vote? To the vote, then? Then please, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u176	Well, I have to check it again, but it's the vote that I found out about J1 and J2 that I voted in favour, and I'm against it, so I'm abstaining there. I'm gonna ask you one more time... So I'm questioning the vote. I'm gonna ask for control again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u177	So wait a minute, let's wait for the vote check. So let's take a break. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] No, no, so it's not the pause that you probably wanted to take, but... but I'm just saying a pause to check the vote. [[with laughter]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u178	We understand you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u179	Let's get to the vote, shall we, Mr. Ambassador? Well, now we're talking... Please? [[Mr Luzar wants to speak.]] Yeah, but we're gonna figure out the vote first anyway, okay? So just a second. I'll give you priority rights, but don't make a fool out of it now. So please, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u180	So I'm not going to question it, but just the microphone: I voted in favour of J1 and J2 so I won't question it. Mr. Chairman, is this all right in a formal way?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u181	Well, that's fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u182	Okay, and I'm sorry, but if you don't know the number of the vote, it's not possible for it to happen again, so here's the thing: I'm not questioning it, because it's the same... I voted simply for these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u183	Yes, and now I have two priority rights here, so first with the priority right of Mr Lukáš Černohorský. [[Cernohorsky says they don't want a break from the Pirate Club.]] So you made it. And now with priority rights for Club KSČM Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have consulted in the meantime, and I have to say here the club's position, which is not pleasant to me personally regarding this law of civil and judicial order and to all citizens affected by the execution. We believe that the proposal that we have here now, after the vote that has passed, is completely deboned. What's missing is why we were here and why we were hoping that the law would pass, that is, the territoriality, that it would be relieved and that it would be equal to those who owe, to those who owe, that there would be even odds, that citizens would be able to settle their debts and get out of the grey zone as declared here. We regret that we have actually been debating here for two days now with comprehensive debates that are more advantageous for debtors, how to proceed, how to relieve them, and in the final votes it turns out that everything was a mystification, everything was often just a front for the law as it is so far. We consider this to be bad, and therefore we will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u185	Mr. Chairman of the STAN Jan Farský Club with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u186	Thank you for the floor. I will follow up to clarify why our club will vote in favour - because we do not want this law to fall under the table after two years, although I agree with Mr Luzar in many ways. The shift is very minimal, but we have the Senate here, and I hope that the Senate will give us back a law in a form that makes sense to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u187	Now with priority for the club ČSSD Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u188	I also have to say that the result is really minimalist and we were expecting more. It was very little, even I dare say, even less than it was presented in the government proposal we were behind. We're taking a 10-minute break for a meeting of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u189	So I'm declaring a ten-minute break until 13.47 and then the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Madam Secretary, good afternoon. We will continue our negotiations, which we have interrupted before the final vote. I shall draw attention to the fact that at this time only those who are given priority rights from the position of party chairmen, club chairmen or their authorised representatives, or members of the Government, may act. So here I have a marked application from President Radim Fiala, then Vice-President Výborný for the KDU Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u191	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on the SPD's position. On behalf of the SPD, I must say that we are very disappointed with the outcome of the vote, but we do respect the democratic process. But we had the idea that this law would improve the lives of debtors, that it would improve the lives of those who got into execution, insolvency and other traps, and unfortunately it did not. If that happened, in some very rare and so small cases, it may not be worth mentioning. That means I have to call it what it is. The law is deboned, there is nothing new, there is no help in the difficult situations in which many people find themselves. We in the SPD were even hesitant about whether to support the law now or not, if anything that has no improving influence or meaning for the lives of people who are troubled and for whom we have done so, if it makes any sense at all. But then we said that we would see and that we would rely on the senators to return some things to this law, send it back to us, and hopefully there would be an opportunity to improve people's lives by voting for a Senate version that would contain some things. So I'm kind of turning to the Senate with confidence now, hoping that some things will be returned to the Senate, that it will return to the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u192	Thank you. I'm glad you have faith in our other chamber. I would also like to point out that the time for third reading ends at 2 p.m. So now, first of all, Mr. Výborný as Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Club, then Mrs. Valachová, then another enrollment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u193	Thank you for the floor. dáma and gentlemen, with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. We took a step, but unfortunately we stayed halfway. What has passed today through the third reading - I fully respect the free will of this House - is unfortunately not good news in some aspects. Nevertheless, a number of positive things have also gone through. That must also be said. Thank you for supporting half the "graceful summer." For KDU-ČSL, I say that we will communicate very intensively with the senators as well as with our Senator's club and we believe that the upper chamber here will play a positive role and that House press will still be able to adapt it to the maximum possible benefit. Unfortunately, this is only a step that has not been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u194	Thank you. I now have Mrs Valachová here as Vice-President of the CSSD Club. [[Secretary Beneš is reporting for the floor.]] Yes, I'm registering the Minister, but I must comply with the order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u195	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, Ministers. We have consulted the Socialist Club and we appreciate that we have at least slightly shifted the more humane Mobiliar execution, if that's the way to put it, just fairer rules. Likewise, we supported the stopping of so-called ineffective executions, albeit to a lesser extent, but at the same time for limiting the remuneration for executioners. And we agreed that these two shifts are also valuable to us in view of the current situation, where there is a real risk that many people will get into trouble as a result of the covidic economic crisis. [[13.50 hours]] So we will support the bill as a whole, but I must reiterate, as the conclusion of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, that we are truly disappointed and dismayed by the outcome, and of course we want to use our senators and senators to support those changes in the Senate that we have failed to enforce here and to return to the new rules of execution again after - I believe - the expected refund from the Senate. I mean, we can have different opinions on different new enforcement rules, and the way things went down here, we also respect that democratically. But what surprised us very unpleasantly is that some of the proposals supported by colleagues from the ANO movement and by colleagues from the Civic Democratic Party go even lower than the original government proposal from this coalition. And for this reason, of course, it is clear that we cannot be happy about this. By supporting the proposal as a whole, but we will push for changes in the Senate through our senators that we have failed to push through here, and we want the House to renegotiate this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u196	Thank you. I now have the priority right of Mr Kolářík, who will represent the absent first Vice-President of the Pirate Club Černohorský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u197	Thank you for the floor. We have also consulted in the meantime, and we must say that this is a wasted chance. We are not satisfied with the result. The negative things from our point of view that got into the final proposal are very bad. On the other hand, there are things that move the situation forward. They are small steps, it is not really a big system change that we have called for, and for that reason, because we still have a Senate where we believe that some things will be improved, so we will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u198	Thank you and now Minister Benešová, then Mr Luzar for the club KSČM. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, from the start of this discussion, I felt exactly the same way that this law, and I marked it here, had a dramatic development, and I'm not happy about it either. It was an incredible job, and I must say thank you to my team, who was also helpful to you, but as you can see, it was no good. You've praised us here, but the result is how it always ends. So what can I say? I called two meetings at the Ministry before we even decided how to stand up to the law as a whole, because we designed something completely different, and something else just happened here. So the result for us is that it's a tiny, tiny improvement in the area of execution, but unfortunately it wasn't worth the job. So I support the law, but I think the senators are gonna have a tough job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u200	Thank you. According to the rules, the Minister's speech opened up the debate. I now have Mr Luzar's enrollment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a KSČM club here, we are astonished that the House here is before the final vote, as it sees fit in the amendments that have passed, but without voting, it already knows that it will vote on a scumbag that everyone here hopes to come back from the Senate. So what are we gonna vote on, we're gonna ask? Do you really think that the senators, and the right-wing Senate - now I'm heading to those left-wing subjects who are defending themselves by fighting for the poorest and most disabled - that the right-wing Senate will correct it so that there is the advantage that has been raised here from many mouths before me? I'm afraid it won't work out that way, but it's your conscience how you deal with it in front of your constituents. I'm happy for you, but let's not vote on it before we approve of this law, so let's not even put it back, let's not vote on it, and let's leave it back until the second reading. We can discuss this again if it's not, we can go back to it, but relying on the Senate, that's really hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u202	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u203	A debate has been opened, and I would say just one sentence, and that a number of things have been approved here, which are now being neutralized differently, such as the'merciful summer', stopping futile executions, humanization, changing the order of repayment of executions, the possibility of obtaining an execution file in electronic form and so on. Maybe it was a small step for someone. I think if not revolution, it was noticeable evolution and it was progress forward. Please, colleagues, it's been a year and a half. I wouldn't devalue it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-001-336.u204	Thank you, and if no one else is applying, we could go back to the vote if there's no interest in the final words or anything like that. We've got three minutes after all. So if no one objects, we will proceed to the vote on the entire bill. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 99... There's a checkout request. I checked you out, please log in with ID cards. [[14.00 hours]] I will continue to read the resolution, so: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, the so-called enforcement order, and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to House press 545, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." This is a motion for a resolution. I think it's clear what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 149, 100 Members and Members shall be registered, for 81, against 7. If there is no objection, I state that consent has been given to the bill. We've dealt with this point. If there are no further proposals, I thank the Minister and the rapporteur very much and I conclude this point. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] We have one minute until the end of the day, so I believe no one will object, given the situation in the room I would not have hoped, and I am ending today's meeting day. I am interrupting this meeting until Tuesday, 14 o'clock, when we will continue on Tuesday, 24th of this year. As the first we have included two points, namely point 524, which will be the Information of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the situation in the steel industry, if I do this well, the abbreviations, and then point 525, which is the Information of the Government to loosen up, and then would follow the points of the block of laws at first reading. I thank you and wish you a pleasant weekend and a pleasant journey home.
