ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u1	7. Draft Act on Recording of Real Owners / House Print 886/5/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments and the resolution was delivered as Parliamentary press 886/6. We are given information on the amendments in our mail. Mr. Senator Tomáš Goláň is here again. And I ask now that Mrs Benešová, Minister of Justice, speak on behalf of the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u2	Have a good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding myself that the aim of this bill on the registration of beneficial owners is to properly transpose into the Czech legal system certain new requirements concerning the registration of genuine owners according to the so-called 5. The AML Directive and in this context revise the relevant transposition of the amended so-called 4. AML guidelines. The fundamental changes brought about by the directive are: the requirement for the public to have at least some information about the beneficial owners, the introduction of verification mechanisms and the checking of the accuracy of the data kept in the register, as well as the establishment of effective sanctions. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Amendments to the Senate to supplement the bill on the amendment of other legislation, which is the essence of which is to clarify the existing requirements for ensuring the beneficial owner in providing subsidies and public procurement. With similar amendments, the Senate has already returned the first part of the transposition to the Chamber of Deputies 5. The AML directive that the House has recently discussed as printing 909. At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies insisted on the original version of the bill passed to the Senate. The Senate's amendments concern regulations in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development. The Ministry of Justice therefore took a neutral position on them, because the above-mentioned gesars of the regulations in question also took a neutral position. However, it should be seen that the amendments in question do not come from the requirements of the transposition directive. I have the following opinion on this: I consider the draft law, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, to be more legally pure, and above all, does not go beyond the dimensions of what is required of us within the framework of the transposition. That is why I am travelling for a version that has been agreed by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u3	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Tomáš Goláň will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As you have heard, both the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance have adopted a neutral position on these amendments. We have actually prepared these amendments in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, and we have incorporated their comments into them. [[18.30 hours]] The essence of the amendment is that the person who provides public finances may, in addition to the records of the beneficial owners, require proof of the beneficial owner in the event of irregularities. This means that the person who writes different tenders, that is, public support, subsidies and other titles, may require the applicant to document the beneficial owner. If he is convinced that there is no correct information in the record of the beneficial owners, then our amendment here obliges him to inform the relevant registry court that keeps the records to initiate the so-called infringement proceedings and to modify these false data. I therefore ask you to support this amendment as it has been tabled to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur for the guarantee committee, Mr František Navrkal, is in the debate, so I assume he will speak in the debate. I therefore open the debate. However, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura has been given priority to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a law on the record of the real owners. The SPD movement, of course, promotes and supports that it is transparently clear who is the final beneficiary of subsidies from the European Union. That is why we have supported and supported the House version. The Senate then wants to ban the granting of subsidies to companies if there are irregularities in the register of actual owners. According to the proposal, the contracting authority would have to request from the tenderers information about their owners. None of us doubt that subsidies are being used not only in our country, but in all the world for purpose to enrich those who can, at the expense of those who can't. Especially those who pay them, i.e. the overwhelming majority of ordinary citizens. The problem is primarily in setting subsidies that favour part of the market and discriminate part of it. The subsidies to private entrepreneurs are explicitly discriminatory and do not belong to the free market. I understand that after the floods, the poor community gets subsidies for repairs or other necessary things for citizens, but I miss why the subsidy is to be given to a prosperous company only because it fits into some tables. If we want to get rid of the really bitter taste of millions of poorer citizens contributing their taxes to billionaire holdings of billionaires, let us cancel such subsidies and let us straighten the market. I do not accept the objection that one or the directive from Brussels forbids us. This is our country, here we have the right to make our own decisions. And I do not mean the House, but the citizens of the Czech Republic, who are the only sovereigns and masters of our country. It's not Brusel, no matter what your approved directives say. None of you who approved these repulsive directives in the name of Brussels gave the right to rid our country of sovereignty. None of the citizens gave you the right to deprive you of citizens of power over their own country and state. In the long dispute over subsidies from the European Union to Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister of the ANO movement returns to Brussels as a boomerang for the defence negotiations. Rabbit with a python never makes a bargain business, because business python is the only one: swallow rabbit. And the only policy of Brussels is to control the Czech Republic and spend it for those who actually control Brussels. Of course, it's not just about subsidies. The last time we found out about vaccines was when we were surprised to learn that the Czech Republic could not approve vaccines separately because only Brusel has this right. These are other very warning moments where many do not even realize what submission we have fallen into because of the European Union. And that's not because we're being occupied by foreign troops and forced by force by their government, but only because our own representatives have been selling us gradually and humiliatingly for decades. It's a shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u7	Thank you. Let me introduce you to an apology. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 18.25 to the end of today's day for work reasons. Mr. František Navrkal will now appear, Mr. Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, I wish you a good evening. I am glad that it has finally reached - perhaps final - the discussion of this press. Like Senator Goláň here, I would very much like to ask you to support the Senate version. The main changes it brings have already been described by the senator, so let me just briefly sum it up. What the Senate version of the Houses brings is that there is a clear ban on granting a subsidy or a public contract if an irregularity is found in the register. In the same way, if, when granting a subsidy or awarding a public contract, the competent authority finds that there is an irregularity in the register, the obligation to notify it to the competent court is introduced. Furthermore, certain matters are specified in the case of contracts. In particular, it is possible for the Authority to request further evidence in addition to mere verification of the record in order to identify possible irregularities. Unfortunately, it is a record, not a register, so it is necessary to introduce this regime. In the case of subsidies, a similar thing is actually introduced, that is to say, it is also possible for the Office to request further evidence of who is the beneficial owner of the applicant. As regards the various complaints, firstly, I would like to point out that in the preparation of the amendments approved in the Senate by the representatives of the government YES, we have taken into account the comments of all relevant ministries, i.e. Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Regional Development. Yet it seems now that I have heard here that the government coalition will not support it. The last time similar changes were to be approved in the Senate return to print 909, i.e. the amendment law on the bill on registering the beneficial owners, the Senate version here was rejected with the argument that another amendment occurred in the Senate amendment, with these changes unrelated to the amendment which was contrary to the directive. And that was supposedly the only reason why it wasn't already accepted. So today, after further commenting, we have some proposal that, nonprofit organizations agree, is better than the proposal that we agreed here in the House. [[how]] Among other things, it is supported by Transparency International, which is probably the largest capacity in terms of transparency in the Czech Republic. I really do not understand this, and I would like to hear any substantive arguments here in the debate, because we have settled all the arguments, we have settled all the comments of the ministries, and we have not sent us any more. As far as proportionality is concerned, there have been arguments here about some proportionality so that we do not burden companies and so on. On this point, I would like to say that there are just as many things in granting grants and public procurement that the applicant or tenderer must document. It must also be realized that if someone is asking for some public money or a public contract like this, they must accept that they must be transparent towards the state. For example, in Slovakia, they have, I hope I remember correctly the name, register or register of public sector partners, and if anyone applies for a public contract, they must be registered in that register. There are already similar verifications carried out when registering there, as they are introduced here. [[18.40 hours]] I think, in an international context, what the Senate version proposes or what's in the Senate version is perfectly fine. And I would ask you once again, those who want to vote against or abstain from the Senate version to reconsider, because this is really one of the biggest steps in anti-corruption policy during this parliamentary term. And so I hope that it will prove here that government parties and movements are really anti-corruption and not pro-corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u9	Have a good evening. Next in the general debate is Mr Marek Výborný, so far the last application in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Government, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on the law on registering real owners as they returned from the Senate. I would like to thank the Senator and the Senate as a whole for bringing into the law this amendment, which we consider not only appropriate but also correct. Colleagues and Senator Goláň have already made it clear, so just for a brief recap. If the state is now providing money in the form of subsidies or public procurement, it should also be sure to whom it provides the money. This is intended primarily for the record of real owners. However, in the version adopted by the House, there is, of course, a claim for grants or participation in public procurement, even if there are irregularities in the register. What the Senate proposal introduces is precisely that the beneficiary concerned is obliged to deal with these irregularities. That's very logical. As legislators, we should cling to the state as an example in this sense and not create any room here for any unfairness, including, for example, money laundering. In this sense, we should be really interested in not only being able to keep records of real owners - that is now, if it does not fall completely under the table today, approved - but also to be clear that there are correct, relevant data. The Senate version, as it returns to us, wants nothing more than the possibility in the event of irregularities of the subsidies, or participation in public procurement, to deny these irregularities if the company, the company, will not resolve these irregularities. That's perfectly fair and logical. This doesn't mean the Senate proposal for an automatic stop sign. Companies that have records in order have nothing to worry about. A company that has irregularities gets space to deal with them. If it is settled, it can, of course, become both a beneficiary of the subsidy and a participant in public procurement. In the case of verification of the data in the register there, in addition to the extract from the records, further evidence must be provided that the beneficiary concerned has everything in order and therefore there is no harm in this case primarily to the State. Let me just make a brief remark on what the secretary said. It's not like we're going too far beyond 5. AML guidelines. On the contrary, the Senate proposal, as we have here today, actually specifies the quality of the records of the real owners so that the state can use it to protect public funds. I believe that this should be the goal of all of us. That is why I think it is absolutely logical and correct, and the KDU-ČSL MP will also support the Senate version, which, in this sense, specifies and protects the entire register of real owners of the Czech Republic's public funds. I believe that in this sense, we all think the same way here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u11	I will look around to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. If no one else applies, I am done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Senator Tomáš Goláň? Madam Secretary? Are you interested in the final word? Madam Secretary, no, Mr. Senator, yes. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u12	Thank you, Mr President. What is the fundamental difference between the version that came from the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate amendment? In the event that only the version of the Chamber of Deputies is approved, the providers of public funds are sufficient to check the records of the beneficial owners. That's just a peek to verify. For all we know, the record of the real owners is not held by the courts. They're responsible for whoever puts the data there. And if the person responsible is the one who puts the data there, there's no guarantee that it's true data. The public finance provider, on the basis of the Senate's amendment, has the opportunity to examine the data and, in the event of irregularities, to submit a motion for a so-called irregularity procedure to the registry court, which will remove the irregularity and impose a fine on the person who causes the irregularity in administrative proceedings. That's very important. On the contrary, this is precisely in line with what the European Union wanted. This cannot go beyond the directive that we are implementing. So I ask you to support this amendment and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u13	We will take the vote. [[Checkout request.]] I hear you, I hear you. [[Sounds like a gong.]] Some of them are getting impatient here, so I'll check you out. Please log in again with your... Yes, Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u14	Sir, I'm acting as vice president of the club at the moment. I'd like to take a break for three minutes, given the distance of our club, so we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u15	Yeah, okay. So I'm declaring a break until 18.48... 18.50, right? [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I understand it's on behalf of the MP's club. So 18.50, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u16	We have 18.50, the pause has passed at the request of the ODS MP. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill on registering the beneficial owners, according to the Parliament's press 886/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the Parliament's press 886/6.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 28 entered 171 Member, for 74, against 16. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Now, we will vote again, according to paragraph... Mr Benešík to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u17	Thank you for the floor. I voted in favour of the last vote, but I do believe that I have been delayed at high school. I would like to repeat the vote. [[Restlessness in the room.]] I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u18	We have Mr Benešík's objection. So first, we'll vote on the objection. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 29 registered 174 Members, for 163, against none. Objection received. So we're going to vote on the Senate version again. I don't know if I should repeat what we're going to vote on. I think we understand. I'm opening the vote. Who's up for the Senate version? Who's against the Senate version? In the vote order number 30, 175 Members registered, for 76, against 5. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill on the registration of beneficial owners, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to Parliament's press 886/5.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 31 registered 175 Members, for 172, against none. I state that we have adopted the bill. Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u19	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to express my regret that we have not just approved the fundamental bill that the Senate has passed to us, and we have missed the chance that people have been waiting here long enough to straighten out the subsidy environment in the Czech Republic. The law, as the Senate presented it, was that if there was an irregularity, the subsidies would not be paid and that he would be able to obtain better data in the event of irregularities to resolve the irregularities. No one here has stepped up for the government, explained why the government doesn't care how the Senate set it up. All the reservations were sought by the appellants in order to incorporate them into the proposals submitted. I think it is a mistake that we have not passed the more detailed law, and I am sorry that we have failed to correct the subsidy environment as a result of the vote, in particular by parties such as YES and SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-007-007.u20	We'll proceed to the next point. It's...
