ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u1	7. The draft law amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Resources and on Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /German Press 870/8/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 870/9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Petr Šilar, hello. I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček speak for the appellants for the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u2	Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, the POZE Act, once again a very discussed matter that should move us to a higher degree of modernisation and decarbonisation of energy. Because we've been discussing him for a very long time, I'll skip all the facts. I would just like to thank you for the debate within the Senate. It was difficult, it was about a whole series of compromises, but I dare say that everything we agreed makes sense, it gives head and heel. Of all possible variations, when everyone undoubtedly leaves the table and will not be completely satisfied, I am ultimately of the opinion that the one in the quotes of the Senate return is a version that is in transit and which gives the ad one a certain possibility to those who have invested fairly in photovoltaics to breathe and work on. At the same time, it makes a clear line behind what took place in 2009 and 2009, which will cost us hundreds of billions of crowns, while at the same time giving room to support modern resources to support decarbonisation, to support Czech warming, because if this did not happen, we have a big problem and we would not be able to support this key area with effective instruments from next year. [[2010?]] When I say the key area of energy, I mean that it is 1.7 million households, 3.5 million inhabitants, to whom we have to secure heat at affordable prices, which we have to ensure that they have a stable energy source, and which we have to secure for a longer period of time, and that is what this law allows. So I recommend that the back of the Senate be accepted, and that it has our full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u3	I'll read an apology. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. Now I ask Senator Petr Šilar to take the floor. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u4	Thank you. I wish you all a good evening, Mr President, colleagues, Members, Members. I think that in this bill, as the Minister said, we really did the Senate role, as it should be. This means that we were able to correct some of the discrepancies that were here in the reading and in the proposal that came from the House, and I would like to stress above all that the most important was the agreement to set an internal yield percentage at an interval of 8.4 to 10.6, with the government deciding on this particular amount by its regulation. The second thing that the Minister also mentioned here is that we have given the opportunity to provide transformative support for heat plants since 2021, and also that you have negotiated a period of support for reconstructed small hydro power plants. I think that also the technical part of the transposition of the directive on renewable sources, the so-called RED II, is a very complex press, that it has been carefully studied with us and that some changes have been adopted there, which were mainly legislative. So I am very pleased to be able to present this proposal here in the House today, because I think that a very decent work has been done in the Senate and that there has been a very good compromise for everyone involved, for all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u5	So now I also ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, would like to comment on the Senate resolution? No, you're not interested. And the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr David Pražák? No, not interested. So I'm opening up a debate, and I have a reporter here, and he's Mr. Petr Třešňák. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u6	Have a good night. I'm not gonna hold you up for a while, just for the Senate version. The Senate really fixed a lot of things there. What is definitely positive for us is the extension of the auction mechanism to all types of resources, including photovoltaics, because it can really bring savings in subsidies to renewable sources in the future. [[18.40 hours]] What else is definitely positive is the repair of the solar tax, the extra one year. This, again, can bring further funding to the state budget for a change. Where it may already be a little bit controversial, it's the heat support. That, on the other hand, is a light discrimination against those who have already invested in restoring these plants. What is perhaps the most discussed is the internal yield percentage for renewable resources, which the Senate suggested in that range, i.e. in that interval. There we see a small risk of impact on the state budget and on the citizens' wallets. In our third reading, we read the resolution so that the government would decide technologically neutrally, in favour of all sources as well. This means that there is one number for all, let's say in the lower turn of 8,4% I suppose it doesn't make sense to load the accompanying resolution on Senate returns, but I would put it here as such a minor appeal, so that the number is really uniform for all and it is as low as possible, as well as to appeal to the government, so that the modernisation fund should be used to develop small installations of renewable resources, but above all to restore heating and to decarbonize heating. For us so briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u7	Mr Leo Luzar has yet to join the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the press final on supported energy sources. I myself was surprised by the changes that came under this law. I can say that, in the case of negotiations, we have tried to reach a compromise, because this law should set parameters for the future, but it is also largely devoted to the past. The past bothers us all, and as the Minister has rightly pointed out here, this is mainly a problem of solar, solar barons and this historical matter from past years, and the setting of their support. Of course, it also concerns setting up support for other energy producers, which we now consider to be ecological, whether it concerns wind, water, or biogas and other historically well-known sources that we use. We have tried from the beginning to approach this, let's say, neutrally, because that attitude, to choose one segment of this market, and to say: this is the future, has given itself up many times. As you will recall - and we will live with this for a long time - European Green Deal is changing our parameters in this area and is trying to push us into certain frameworks that we are unable to predict ahead of time. Those frames are now strongly set towards electromobility and, in general, to produce electricity within windmills and within solar sources. They are already less focused on the production of energy from the core. Even though the Prime Minister here speaks of the great success of taking the core at the mercy of the European Union, I am not entirely convinced of it, because they have only taken into account that it exists here in this territory, that we use it, that we operate with the core, but have no longer allowed us to count this too much, and I fear that even in the future it will not allow us to count the renewed resources, that is, the possible completion of Dukovan, or Temelin, in compensation as environmental resources. [[post]] Europe is going in a slightly different direction. We think it's a big mistake, but so be it. In other words, I want to say that predicting some of the procedures and appropriate guidelines that the state should support, the development of this environmental substitute for the withdrawal of fossil fuels is problematic. We're talking about coal ending. The coal commission supplied us with deadlines, the government gradually adjusted deadlines. Sometimes I felt that the Prime Minister was getting different data every day about the future of coal, because he changed the terms and years according to where he spoke. Whether it was in Ostrava, whether it was then in Prague or Brussels, they always changed the terms. So in the end, there was some time for the possible end of coal, which was acceptable, and we took the view that we would probably go in that direction and that the time of coal was really ending. But we are now in a state where private operators of fossil fuel-dependent energy sources, or mining companies, report earlier deadlines that prevent us from planning, because, of course, when you plan to build new energy sources, you count at least five years of cycles and the return of ten years is probably real. I don't know who's gonna build any gas or other power plant today as a potential heat source with a view that in three or five years, it might not be effective and could close it down. It is a problem, and therefore the state aid, which is actually being prepared here by this bill, is again debatable, because we do not know exactly where to go about this matter. With regard to the source where the State should give support, we have a clear comprehensive view that it should be a resource that is pure, a resource that is sufficiently represented in the Czech Republic, and a resource that will not favour or disadvantage other resources that may appear. That is why, from the outset, we have treated the unfortunate possible percentage of support that appears in IRR material as a number that should be motivating, but should not be discriminatory. That's why we proposed a debate around one number. One number here from this point of view is, in our opinion, the best. It allows all market participants to access bank guarantees or investors with the same measure. As you know, I don't think there's an investor in the Czech Republic today who has cash in his closet that he would take and say, I'm going to build some kind of ecological heat or electricity source here. Everything's being financed by the banks today. These banks are looking at efficiency, and, of course, future buyers of these resources are looking at efficiency. We've been doing a lot of talking about solar barons. It was like a red thread in here. And if you recall the vote that was in the parliamentary version of this press 870, these speeches were here that some colleagues and colleagues could not categorically agree with this proposal precisely because it is recording to the solar barons that it allows them to multiply their profits, to shift. These arguments were raised. There was fear of the Castle's reaction in the galleys, as he would see it. There were reactions that were going to happen, just in case. These are all legitimate debates, which, of course, raise history. But we must say that really the solar barons are no longer in the Czech Republic and live on their own, if I use the expression, stolen billions from this republic somewhere in the Bahamas or in similar paradises where they enjoy the sun. Most of those sources that had the best position back then were already owned by other companies that invested in it. Among other things, the largest company on the market at the moment is the semi-state CEZ, which invested large resources in solar power and bought the baron ones - or what to call it, I can't think of the right term - but it bought these resources and now operates them. Of course, he's also heavily dependent on what percentage we're going to determine. Let's just say that. He's quite logical about business here, and he can't afford to lose much. That's why the debate about the percentage was pretty big. [[18.50 hours]] But what the problem is and what we've been dealing with and what I've been pointing out is the big problem with biogas sources, because that's a new trend that's coming up. I'm pointing out one thing here. Biogas, in order to be acceptable from the European Union's point of view, should be so-called clean. Difference clean - dirty, maybe we laugh, but it clean means it is not used from other sources that are themselves contaminated. So there should be some guarantee here, at least we hope they won't be used to produce biogas resources that could be used to produce food, so there's a replacement. Today we often debate and use the term rape business and stuff, but I'm afraid there might be a corn business just because corn is good within silage and can be used energyally. Today, I read this in a technical medium interesting, where they talked about the fact that today farmers are paid to do their profession, to do agriculture just because they produce what they produce, produce as electricity and sell it. That it wasn't that a farmer had classic cattle because he wanted meat, milk, he had grain because he wanted bread. He's keeping all this to have biogas, because the biogas is making more money than he could get by selling these products. It's a big problem. While we live in a rich part of the world, we do not have to look at it so far, but we should also take this into account in our policy, grant policy, support policy. It was a debate that appeared, and it is part of the materials: placing these buildings in the landscape. There was talk of not allowing large-area trades. Unfortunately, already those solar sources that are susceptible to the surface are located in the landscape, but today there are already tendencies to put solar panels vertically, and not horizontally, and one can grow between them. Even the experiments in South Moravia are where the building of these solar resources, for example, starts to manifest itself in vineyards. Without knowing it, even a wine-lover, wine-grown vine hates too much sun, and solar panels are just making a certain shadow that wine needs to dry so the soil stays better. It's a second source that could be considered possible perspective. [[The noise in the Chamber persists and escalates.]] The question is: the acceptance of companies. I want to draw attention here to one more thing I've just met recently, and these are the windbreakers. Windshields that have a problem accepting in society. Somewhere it was written that even environmentalists expect to use this term in high acceptance of companies, the term ranges from 95 percent, which is absolutely unrealistic, or even 96 percent, which is absolutely unrealistic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u9	Well, I'd ask you to calm down. Let's just hang in there. We've got seven minutes left. I ask the House for peace so that the Member may speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u10	96 per cent is an absolutely unrealistic number of acceptance of the windmill company. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] You can tell yourself how far you feel about this. On the other hand, society's opposition is growing to support these resources. I myself participated in the public debate of the community, where four windbreakers were to grow up and where the people in their majority were against, severely opposed, even so that they had a majority and could declare a local referendum that would contradict and disagree with this discussion here and the location of these windbreakers. And the bill doesn't have the whole point of putting these people in that information zone so they know why it's done. That is absolutely missing here, and we are taking it and automatically making excuses for the European Union. That's what I consider to be the big problem that came from the Senate here, but unfortunately also from the House. This means that there is an excuse, what is written not directly, but hidden that we are actually forced, that we must, that the European Union has forced us and that we have no other chance. And I dare say we have a chance here. We have a chance to go the Czech way because we are not alone. The problem lies with most European states, say new European states, to distinguish it. Even the problem of acceptance and acceptance in society has. A week ago, journalists asked me what I'm saying about electricity going up one fifth, and how we look at it as a political party. I have also heard the comments of other colleagues from the political parties, and it was not acceptable to anyone. No one was cheering and saying, "It's exactly what we wanted. Yet, here we often accept that the electricity will cost the citizens, that energy will cost them. And we just can't accept that. It's a problem, and there's a little detail in the problem. As we advocated a single percentage of the IRR, and in the original government proposal, there was a table that was taken from European materials that set different IRR rates per energy source. With the debate, we have tried to reach a state where the government will probably recognize that it might be reasonable to put it on a unified level, and I have come to the impression that this material has gone to the Senate that it is in the Senate that it will be possible to find a consensus between the various sectors. I was surprised, however, that the sectors that should be involved are strongly disunited and everyone promotes their own interests without taking into account the interest of the whole, without taking into account the interest of society and without promoting the interests of the Czech Republic. Just most of these sectors that operate in our country are owned by their mothers who are located beyond our borders, they receive the befel of the European Union, they receive befel from Brussels, and therefore they promote their interests and they lack the interests of Czech citizens to accept energy. The proposal, which is also in the Senate, which unfortunately is also in the House version to support the IRR for biogas, considers the KSČM to be a major problem within a possible next but now a gas tunnel, which could possibly be even more of a problem in the future than a solar tunnel. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Biogas has its risks because it has to do with the shortage of raw materials, it has to do with the fact that there may be a major problem in re-buying and extracting raw materials to produce biogas. This problem already seems serious today, because it is related to the emission allowances that companies have to take over, they have to buy, and if they want to save, they have to start burning the resources of today's usual, it's the bio-sources, that is, the chips and other things. In connection with the barking calamity, we can say that at the moment the Czech Republic should have sufficient resources to cope with this problem. Unfortunately, it turns out that most of the wood is exported without being processed here. This is just a side problem that emerges within this proposal that we are actually counting on some raw material that could be conveniently used as a source of energy, whether to produce electricity, produce heat energy or biogas energy, but we actually export in cubic meters, without counting on it, abroad. And it is quite a disgrace to the Czech Republic that it has approached the barking calamity from the point of view of business, to get as much as possible and not to obtain enough resources and resources for the Czech Republic to develop energy and these very things. [[19.00 hours]] Emission allowances is a problem which is not addressed under this law. This is where we refer to the future. But the proposals that this material accompanied were made at a time when emission allowances cost about 30 dollars or 30 euros. Today they're at 61, they can be at 100 euros. It doesn't reflect the current situation at all. Limiting, for example, heat plants that will have to buy emission allowances at these enormous prices puts us in a situation where this industry can end, because those owners will cease to have any means of profit, because they will not even be able to transfer them to citizens. And we're going to stand before the state has to start subsidizing strongly here this area, which has so far lived from having a cheap energy source, and it's going to have to raise resources --
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-007-007.u11	Well, we've got 19 o'clock. Ambassador, I'm forced to interrupt you. Before I interrupt the meeting, I'd just like to stress that the 2,000 crowns are here. So just to be my witnesses, I'm leaving them here on the table, and I assume they'll be here tomorrow. [[Fun in the hall.]] I am interrupting the House of Deputies meeting until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning and have a nice evening. [[Minister for the Environment: Don't turn off the lights!]] Yeah, to keep the lights off, says Minister Brabec. All right.
