ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 87th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I just checked you out, I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. I note that Members who are neither present nor in writing excused shall be deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs. Today is March 5th. It's Lukáš Kolářík's birthday. Is he there? Hello, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] The members of the government apologize: Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. Today's meeting should begin with a fixed item 331, print 984, an amendment to the Civil Code, a third reading. We would then continue to discuss further points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines have been met. First there is 332, print 317, again the amendment to the Labour Code, which we included as the first point from the block of third readings today, that is on Friday 5 March, then it would be points 326, 328, 333, and 334, prints 966, 532, 374 and 896. After a block of third readings, we would eventually continue by discussing points from the block of the laws of second reading. At 11.30 we have a fixed point 327, print 756, a government bill amending certain laws in connection with further electronization of the procedure of public authorities, a third reading. And at the end of the day, an organizational announcement. Paragraph 197 of the approved programme, press 649, on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, first reading, was already discussed yesterday, i.e. on Thursday 4 March, at an extraordinary 89th meeting, so do not apply it, there is no need to vote on it. Mr Grospič apologizes today from 11 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. At this point, I have an application for a priority right for Vice-President Valachová, except I don't see her anywhere in the hall for the moment, so we'll give her the floor later. Is he here? I didn't notice. I'm sorry. Madam Vice-President on the agenda. No? [[Vice-President Valachová doesn't want to perform.]] Oh, the press? I'm sorry, I get it, that's how it's written. So if there's no one with priority rights... Mr. Ambassador, I'll give you the floor, but they have the floor, and the first application is for Vice-President Langšádlová on the agenda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like us to include the topic of vaccination today at 10 o'clock. I think that we are all aware of the seriousness of this subject, and I think it would be good for us to just keep getting information. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] There is no other way out of this crisis than to vaccinate. And this morning again, we heard a lot of conflicting information from the government, from the chieftains, about how many vaccines there are at the moment, where the vaccines are, if, as he says -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u3	I'll cut you off for a moment, please. Allow your colleague to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u4	As our President, Markéta Pekarová, says, Adamová, we must strive for every vaccine to find its shoulder as quickly as possible. And I think... you're already hurting your shoulder, colleague, I'm sorry. [[to Mr Faltynek]] Virtually. I think we all perceive that vaccination is the only way to get out of this serious crisis, and I believe that it is good will to get as many vaccines as possible. But even the safety questions, the questions about what vaccines will come here, when the president here is ordering vaccines from Russia and China, and for the Russian vaccine Sputnik, the Prime Minister goes to Hungary and Serbia, and Dr. Prymula says that these vaccines are dangerous, that they are not credible, and that is certainly a person who has an overview in this area. I think that vaccination should simply be our main topic in the future weeks and months until we can contain the pandemic, because in the context of managing this crisis, it is the ultimate tool. And there's a lot of questions. I know that some partial responses have already been said by the Minister of Health this week. I know there's been some numbers here, but in fact, the next thing you know, there's still 30 percent of the vaccines that are supposedly - and I firmly believe that's not the case - that's supposed to be in storage somewhere. We can't afford to have any vaccines in storage right now. We really must make an urgent effort to get as many safe vaccines as possible in order to create sufficient capacities, both in the vaccination centres, so that the most involved practical doctors, as well as other doctors, are involved, as I have noticed that in some countries only practical doctors, as well as outpatient specialists, have taken part in the vaccination. I am really convinced in the long run that vaccination is the only way, and that is why I think we have to deal with it regularly, it is to be included regularly as a point at our meetings, that we need to be able to respond to our constituents, who also see the situation as very, very tense, because the efforts that we put into having as much as possible here, but the safe, registered vaccines, are worth it to us because we all know how much it costs us one single day of lockdown. And that's why I think delaying vaccination, not doing everything to make sure that there are as many safe vaccines as possible, brings huge economic losses. It is equally important, as I have said several times, that a vaccination campaign should be launched. I've been here a couple of times saying research data. In fact, there are at least tens of percent of people who have believed various misinformation about vaccinations that have been conducted here for a long time and who are refusing to be vaccinated. We don't feel it right now because there aren't enough vaccines. But when I spoke to the health ministers in the fall, they told me: the campaign will be in October, the campaign will be in November, the campaign will be in December. Well, we have March, and the vaccination campaign to explain vaccinations to people hasn't even started yet. So I also think we have to do this before we get to the limit on the inoculation of those people who would then refuse vaccination. Once we let this go on, we won't be active, so trust me, within two months, we'll be dealing with no one to inoculate because people will refuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u5	Madam, don't run away from me yet, I'll just ask. Are you suggesting to include a whole new point called vaccination, or do you mean the one we have on the agenda as 485 - Government information on the vaccination strategy that he proposed, I think, my colleague Ondráček, if I'm not mistaken?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u6	I'm very sorry because I didn't know exactly the name of the second point. I'd be happy to deal with that point called strategy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u7	The proposal will therefore include 485 today firmly at 10.00. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u8	Mr President, Madame and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. I must tell you that it doesn't happen very often that TOP 09, Mayors, ODS and other right-wings would help KSČM enforce its points. Here I must thank my colleague Helenka Langšádlová through you, Mr President, for promoting the point of the vaccination strategy that she has proposed here and which - thank you - you have also voted. We really consider it essential that, in addition to those things which are here in Mrs Langšádlová's speech, but also in the information of Minister Blatný and in the discussion on this point, they show that they are in the permanent centre of interest of the Chamber of Deputies and through the Chamber of Deputies and the media, which are very detailed and objectively informing about the events so that citizens learn that they do not feel that there is no order or there is some groveling in this. So, just to be clear, we as the KSČM would like to discuss this point at every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in which I also agree with Helenka Langšádlová, and to ensure that the content is also that citizens, i.e. each shoulder, receive a vaccine. A small difference is that any dose of vaccine that comes to the Czech Republic in time will help speed up the end of the unnatural state, which is here for the economy and for society, but especially for education, education and for our heavily tested health care. I think that if we are negotiating elsewhere than AstraZenec and others, as they say, reputable companies, it is not because we would be having some ideological fight, but especially because in time, doses of vaccine can be ordered, which can help to end the situation more quickly. We are, of course, in favour of the vaccine being conducted through a standard approval process, here I remind you of the Treaty of Lisbon. This area is not bound to European law, it is purely a national field of competence, and we have our SÚKL, which we trust, so yes, first and foremost, this matter, but if the vaccines are not at least pre-ordered, pre-ordered, it may not be possible for it to reach us until it is no longer necessary to do so, and there will be an unnecessary extension of the situation where vaccination will slow down instead of accelerating. So, my friends, my colleagues, please let us - I have an alternative proposal - continue today on the point that we are talking about, but not firmly on the tenth, but as the first point after the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u9	Thank you. I see it as a counter-proposal that we will vote on first. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is now enrolled in the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u10	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government. At this point, we all have people around us who are not only having a very hard time dealing with the current situation, who are sick and ill in their families, but there are many families who have long-term ill and severely ill even without a covideo. And I'm really very sorry. What can we do to help? By softening the conditions for a long-term infirmary. This bill has been here for over a year. Therefore, I would like to propose that we place the House Press 695, item 203, firmly on Tuesday 9. 3. after the already fixed points. In addition to the fact that if we discuss this proposal and it is approved, we will actually help those who are severely ill in their ranks, so we will also relieve the heavily tested health system, because this proposal really has the potential to release hospital beds by taking their families into home care because they will have the conditions for long-term care. I'm begging you again, let's consider everything that has to do with this. Let us think of those people who are in trouble, and put this item in order to discuss this on Tuesday when we continue our meeting so that it enters into force as quickly as possible. Thank you for your compassion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u11	Thank you, Madame. For the record, there's been a renumber. It's point 204, as I've been notified. Otherwise, of course, everything's fine. Next on the agenda is Mr Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the discussion that we had here a few days ago. It was a decision on the EU's own resources. In the general debate, I have reminded us that there is a rest hanging here that - I think - is in the best interest of this honourable House to check it out, in public terms, to discuss it. It's nothing to discuss for a long time. We have already basically adopted a resolution on this, but there has been some loss in translation. This is therefore the EU budget after 2020. There it happened that the Committee on European Affairs at its 52nd meeting on 24 June last year passed a package of related European acts related to the multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan, so we came to the conclusion that this is such a large amount of money, such an unprecedented crisis and its solution, that it is a really broad issue, that there should be a broader political consensus and that this should be discussed here at the plenary of our lower chamber, because the Senate European Committee adopted the resolution and the House still did not adopt the resolution. At the 52nd meeting, we referred it to the plenary, and we gave no opinion. We merely asked the President of the House to include the item for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. That was before the summer break at the last meeting, but it didn't get on the show anymore. Then, in some agreement, probably within the framework of the Gremia, it came to be included in the 48th meeting point of the Prime Minister's information, where we discussed it and adopted a nice resolution, consensual, on which there was more or less broad agreement. We invited the Prime Minister there to support the multi-annual financial framework and the extraordinary instrument, the plan to support the recovery of Europe. Then we identified the areas as competitiveness, modernisation, education, investment in people, preparation for climate change challenges and other, for example, health crises that Europe can face in the future. [[9.20 hours]] I think we have adopted a nice resolution on this, but it was not about the package, it was not about the point that we referred here from the European Committee, it was about the Prime Minister's information. So we have, I think, a really nice resolution that we have reached here together, we have voted on it, but officially, under the lower chamber of the Czech Parliament, the European Commission, the Council and Parliament have not received any comments on one of the most important things that came to us from the European level of politics during this parliamentary term, and the House has not formally adopted any position on this. And I think - it is a bit passable, it has already been approved at both European Council and European Parliament level, here we have already basically ratified the EU's own resources, the regulation, so it is already running, the multiannual financial framework is already being implemented. That's why I'm proposing this solution, and I'm going to get to the point where I want to put it. I think it could be pretty much no discussion. We could open that point, refer there to the resolution we adopted - resolution 1218 of the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of 10 July last year. Unfortunately, in the Chamber of Deputies archive, probably due to a technical glitch, I failed to download it, but I think it can be resolved in a moment. I think that we could refer to this resolution, and that would make it official. So I propose to include it today, or whenever point 327 of this so-called DEPO is discussed, after this point I propose to include paragraph 304, which is the House press 927-E, so that we can refer there to our already existing resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-000-000.u13	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone else on the agenda. If I don't see anyone, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby and deal with the proposals that have been made. [[The chairman is gonging.]] First of all, we have a proposal to place a point at this point marked as 485 - Government information on the vaccination strategy. First of all, we will vote against President Kováčik's proposal to put him first today after the third reading. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 102 Members and Members are registered, for 94, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková suggested that we include paragraph 204, print 625, on Tuesday 9. 3. after fixed points. At this point, there's only a crisis law, a Senate return. So point 204 on Tuesday after the fixed points. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 85, registered is 101, for 36, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. And now, Mr Kopřiva proposes paragraph 304, House press 927, to include as point 327, which is now firmly included in the third reading at 11.30. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 86, registered is 100, for 30, against 10. The motion was not accepted. According to my notes, this is all that was to be voted on, and we will continue according to the approved and modified agenda of the meeting. I open point 331, which is
