ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u1	1. Government Bill on the Emergency Contribution of Employees in the Quarantine Order /House print 1153/ - shortened negotiations In order to be able to proceed according to § 99 para. 5, we need to assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. I am opening up a debate on the issue of the briefing of this press. I don't have a written application. Anyone from the scene? It's not like that. In that case, I will end the debate and make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there continue to be conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on the extraordinary contribution of employees under the order of quarantine, the House's press 1153, in a short hearing." I've started voting number 8 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 8, present 100, for 71, against no one. The motion has been approved. We can therefore continue to negotiate briefly with this press. I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová to take her place at the rapporteur's table. I will ask the same of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy, who is also present and ready. Madam Secretary, on behalf of the government, will give the opening statement. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to present the Government's proposal for an extraordinary contribution to the staff in quarantine. We're calling it a shorthanded duct tape. The aim of this proposal is to motivate people to test, report contacts and enter quarantine or isolation, which should prevent further spread of infection between people. Only one-third of people with symptoms or risky contact are getting tested. We really consider this a very low number that complicates the fight against pandemics. People also report fewer contacts in case of COVID-19 disease than it corresponds to reality. On average, people report only one person with whom they have been in epidemiologically significant contact. For example, in November to January, the average number of reported contacts during the route was between 0.7 and 1.3 contacts. In the polls, people present five or six contacts a week, without a drape and for more than 15 minutes. How is that possible? The explanation is obvious. Fear of testing or fear of quarantined your loved ones, your friends and colleagues, and thus deprive them of a significant portion of their income. We believe - it is a government bill - that the fall in income is one of the causes of low motivation. I don't think it's surprising. In the case of quarantine or isolation, people get 60 percent of the reduced gross wage. For example, a person with a minimum wage comes in ten days in quarantine by more than CZK 2,500, a person with an income of CZK 20,000 gross is reduced by more than CZK 3,000, etc. etc. I can name the specific amounts then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u3	Madam Secretary, I understand. I'll ask the House for peace. Don't make me name an individual colleague. If you have a different topic than printing 1153, please, fundamentally in the foyer! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u4	It is the isola that responds to this significant drop in revenue. We want to motivate citizens and improve the financial situation of those who are responsible, remain in isolation, and unfortunately are being punished for this today by a significant decline in income. We must not punish responsible behavior. I'm convinced of that. Thanks to the duct tape, people should not be afraid to test or report the actual number of contacts. This law is a condition for really functional tracking. [[The noise and restlessness in the room lasts.]] Now let me introduce you briefly to the principles. According to our proposal, the employer will pay an extra bonus of CZK 370 for each calendar day of quarantine or isolation. This allowance shall be paid by the employer for a maximum period of 10 calendar days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u5	So I'm gonna interrupt you one more time and ask my colleagues for some peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u6	You're there... talking in the benches at school. These increased costs of extraordinary contributions will not be borne by the employer, I consider this to be very important. Employers shall deduct the paid contribution from social security contributions and the contribution to national employment policy. You don't have to apply, the whole mechanism is very simple for employers. The amount of bonus of CZK 370, and it is up to CZK 370, is based on the agreement within the framework of social dialogue, and I appreciate it very much and I am glad that we are with representatives of employers and employees, which means with the unions, we have agreed and we have found a consensus and common understanding. The bonus of up to 370 crowns should be equal to the lost income of all employees with an income of up to 28 000 crowns, thus overall the isola should equal the lost income in the case of quarantine or isolation fully up to 1,380 000 employees. The willingness to be trudged and quarantined is too small today, and I am sure that by introducing this bonus, we will increase it. Questions and comments about possible abuse often fall, very often dominated by the debate, so it is important to say that even a bonus will no one have a higher income than if they worked fully. For this bonus, we have set a ceiling of 90 per cent of gross wages, which is 100 per cent of reduced measuring load. Even in the introduction of an isolation device, no one will be financially motivated not to go to work and just for the bonus he entered quarantine or artificially reported people from his surroundings. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to sum this up. This financial motivation has support not only in the context of social dialogue but also among the experts of the government NERV. The costs are very reasonable. If it is often said that the cost of a flat-rate lockdown, i.e. the total economic closure, is CZK 2 billion per day, the cost of an isola will cost approximately CZK 400 million per month at the same time as the average number of quarantines. This means that if we expect validity for three months, we are moving at the cost level of CZK 1.2 billion. I guess I don't have to stress that an isola can thus be a relatively simple and inexpensive solution, as out of the endless closure of the economy, which is several times, or several dozen times more expensive, we probably don't need to discuss the harmfulness of surface closures here. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to support this much-needed law, which is the result not only of political negotiations, but also in the context of dialogue with the social partners, in the fight against pandemics, a number of restrictions have been pushed through, so I consider it very important that we also adopt this change, which is a positive way and motivates citizens to behave responsible, not simply to punish, prohibit and frighten. Thank you very much for supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u7	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová for her opening words. I would remind you that in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the So we will move on to second reading with the fact that the Committee on Social Policy, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1153/1. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, Madam Government, Madam Members, the bill under discussion has been delivered to the Chamber of Deputies 9. 2. 2021 together with the request to discuss this draft law in a legislative emergency pursuant to Section 99. The Minister has already presented the proposal in detail. I will just remind you that the basic content is the supplement to the sickness benefit of CZK 370 per day for employees to pay sick for 10 days in quarantine or isolation. It pays the employer and further deducts this bonus from the social security contribution, so it goes at the expense of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This provision will apply from 1. 3. to 31. 5. 2021 for all infectious diseases. The aim, as has already been said, is to motivate people not to avoid quarantines and isolation, to reduce the number of social contacts and to avoid the spread of infections, especially COVID-19. The Committee has discussed this proposal 10. 2. 2021. The debate was basically in three areas, the length of the sickness allowance was discussed, the inclusion of self-employed persons in two variants, those who did not pay sick persons and those who are involved in sickness insurance, and the possibility of abuse of quarantine were also discussed. After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dana Roučková, News Report by Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposed to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the House that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the House to terminate its negotiations on this draft law by 19 hours at the latest on 11 February 2021; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on the extraordinary contribution of employees under the order of quarantine, Parliament's press 1153; V. the Committee authorised the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee's opinion of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the House, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. This resolution still contains provisions, or part, which is directed towards the Ministry of Labour on Social Affairs. Committee VI. Calls on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to send information to the Committee on the number of extraordinary allowances paid to employees in the period of 3 May 2021 for March, 1 June 2021 for the month of April, 1 July 2021 for the month of May, on the number of extraordinary allowances paid to employees in the period of quarantine and the total amount of contributions paid for the month in question, together with the comparison for the previous month. [[11.50 hours]] At the committee meeting, as I spoke about the rounds, the amendments tabled by Mrs Richterová were discussed and a resolution was adopted which I have just presented to you. During yesterday - today, other amendments were added to the system, which I suppose their petitioners justify, and I will comment on them and probably the Minister at the end of this discussion. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u9	I thank the rapporteur and note that the Chamber of Deputies can abandon the general debate, but since the committee has proposed that a general and detailed debate be held, we will have to decide that. I will undertake to call on those whom I have asked to conduct discussions other than the press of 1153, outside the O.R., and to hold a general and detailed debate, we will decide in voting number 9 which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of having a general and detailed debate? Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 9, there's 100, for 64, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we will have a general debate, which I am opening. I have five applications for her at this point. The first is Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, who does not have to exercise her right of priority as rapporteur, but it is her speech in the debate with her position. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u10	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, allow me, at this point in time, to comment on the draft law. During the committee's meeting, there was also a debate about possible abuse, about some injustice in the fact that a supplement should be given to sickness, to regular sickness. We can see it that way. But, you know, I didn't forget the time when I had the regular income and at that time two kids in college. I just couldn't afford to be sick at the time, because a 60 percent loss of income simply meant big and big problems even though you might have had some kind of reserve. And that's the problem. We've already got an analysis today that 34 percent of the covid are crossing over, not reporting in, going out with the others. I believe the drapes at least a little prevent the transmission of infection, but it's not good. And if we want to deal with this infection, which is already really killing us all, it is necessary to take all possible measures to prevent the spread of the infection from returning to normal life. So please, let us really support this proposal. I believe that it will lead people to respect that they should stay at home, that they have 14 or 14 days of quarantine that is needed, to endure so that they do not infect others and stop spreading the disease. At this point, I will introduce very quickly the amendments that I have tabled with my colleague, Roman Onderka, on this bill. The first concerns job vacancies. It is an amendment that aims more towards the future and aims to create a situation for labour authorities to be able to prepare a targeted active employment policy at this point, if they were to slowly - and I hope it will not be faster, but we should be ready - unemployment has increased. The reason for the presented material, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, is that the Labour Office should have a relevant overview of newly created or vacant jobs in its territory, i.e. to have a real and up-to-date offer of job vacancies for employers. At the same time, the amendment proposes the automatic elimination of job vacancies after three months, keeping them in the register with the possibility of extending the registration at the employer's request for a maximum of three months. The next amendment is based on the problems we encountered in the first wave of pandemics in the spring. Most of us thought that most people had income either as self-employed or as employees, whether full-time or part-time. In the spring it turned out that there are a lot and a lot of people who have their income given by making agreements to carry out work or work agreements. And remember, we had big and big problems with how to even know about these people, and of course there was a problem with how to help them, how to compensate for income outages. Therefore, another amendment concerns the registration of non-insured agreements on work outside employment and employment in a small-scale employment relationship. It is about the obligation for employers to report these agreements and, as a result, it will certainly mean reducing the grey economy and exploiting these agreements. We certainly wish and we know that these agreements - and so they were meant to be - were meant to be in the legal order - were meant to be an opportunity to make a profit, whether it were seniors, mothers on maternity leave, students etc. But unfortunately, I say, it has gone wrong and I have information from the field that these agreements are actually very and very abused. It's kind of servitude for those people who are forced to operate like this, and it's unfair competition from companies that don't employ people and therefore don't give them full legal protection like the Labour Code says, but they're just the first to release them at any time, etc. That is, therefore, the second amendment. I will then join them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention and once again please support this bill and consider supporting those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. Mr Jan Chvojka will now appear, and Mrs Richterová will be ready. Pursuant to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure Act, I remind my colleagues Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojek and ask them to put on drapes when they are here to respect government regulations and sanitary measures here in the House. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's almost noon. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to briefly justify the amendment, which I will then formally sign up for in a detailed debate. It is an amendment that was created on the floor of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and which I have already read to the Employment Act, or to the amendment to the Employment Act, but we do not know how much longer the legislative process will take, so I think that the more realistic way from the point of view of approval and speed is to try not to propose the amendment, I do so, but to approve it today in the context of this press. The amendment that I am proposing, and I am going to apply to it, repeals some valid but still ineffective provisions concerning the so-called Single Information System of Labour and Social Affairs from 1. The 1st of next year, that is, since 2022. This system should have been extended by the amended provisions, especially by registers of insurance and registers of employers, whose administrator has been the Czech Social Security Administration for decades. Unfortunately, this change in time proves unthinkable, unsystemic and also illogical and, unfortunately, technically feasible. The implementation of this change would require significant investment and in no case is technically possible to implement it on 1. 1st of next year. Moreover, there is no real contribution to this change. Already now the Czech Social Security Administration provides information electronically to a number of entities, both within and outside the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and continues to work on development in this area. An example is ePortal of the Czech Social Security Administration, which continuously reflects the current strategy of eGovernment in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u13	Have a nice noon. I will now ask for a speech in the general debate by Mrs Olga Richterová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the topic of positive motivation has finally come to this meeting for all those who are responsible for the tests and who are going to be reported and staged. Let me put it this way: they leave themselves because people call each other like that, they ask, can I tell you? Can I talk to you about us being in close contact? And this is what we want to change. What's going on? It is not possible to arrange this only for employees, only for those who now have low, but at least the sixty percent, although it is reduced, even though in reality it is more like fifty percent of the net wage, but it is still something, and forget about the tradesmen. That is why I am proposing two amendments. I'm sure the solution that's being put forward here will make things better, but it's still probably not even half-assed, but just a third-rate solution. Indeed, the main thing is that businessmen who now have zero, zero compensation, because even if they pay responsible sickness insurance - that is, of course, only part of them, but it is still a significant part, they are still tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people who pay sick as businessmen - so these people today have no sickness or anything in quarantine for the first two weeks. These people are now concerned, because if they don't get at least a contribution, their motivation will not rise again. If we really want to handle these last three months in real terms, hopefully inoculating a substantial part of the population and especially the oldest seniors, we must address the tradesmen. In order not to be, dear colleagues, in a moral dilemma, whether it is possible to positively motivate those who have not paid their sickness insurance, we are presenting two versions of the amendment. One version is narrower, I really think perfectly fair for those who paid insurance, so let them also have a chance to get positive motivation. I'll read it to you on purpose. It actually means extending the entitlement to a compensatory bonus for those persons who do not have a prohibited activity, they are not entities who are entitled to a compensatory bonus as such, but to achieve it if they are ordered to be isolated or quarantined. This is a solution that would result from Ms Schillerová's media statements, and I would like you to comment on that, Madam Secretary. I'm glad you're gonna say that. The point is, if we let the traders who are outside the compensation bonus fail, and there are a lot of them - we all know how strict the Financial Administration is at the moment to be entitled, then at that point we lack a positive motivation factor for a very significant part of the working population. This is therefore a narrower option, a narrower amendment. And then there's a wider one that would acknowledge that the situation here is very tense, and I would say that it makes sense to give all the businessmen a positive incentive to fight the pandemic. We simply put it forward, we believe that the situation is so objectively tense that this makes sense, but please consider this, fellow Members. Let me recap. The point is, as is now proposed by an increased compensation bonus based on what is flying the media, it still does not cover those who are not entitled to it at the moment when they are ill and are proven to be either ill with a covid or in quarantine ordered epidemiologically, not that they will say so themselves, but ordered. So that's the key thing. And then one more thing -- that's a smaller amendment purely for situations where someone has symptoms for a longer time, but maybe he's not so sick anymore, and he's thinking, "I might as well go back to work -- so that if a doctor sees it, he could be home for two weeks instead of ten for an increased amount. So this is such a minor amendment, based on real experience, that some people are different, and even if they are no longer unable to work in the sense that they are so ill, they could still be dangerous to their surroundings, and so that they are not motivated to keep this situation secret, so that we can positively motivate them if they cannot carry out work from home office, at home office, anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u15	Now here's a point of fact. That is what Mr Martin Jiránek claims, and then with priority rights is prepared by Minister Alena Schillerová. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u16	Hello, colleagues, thank you for the floor. I would like to support Olga Richterová in the fact that it is more appropriate to address the epidemic and the objective that we want to achieve, that is, that people who are sick, who are most likely to stay at home, follow the quarantine, it makes sense to give financial support and tradesmen who do not pay their sick leave, simply to everyone. Minister Havlíček told me a few minutes ago that the new compensation bonus should cover about 300,000 businessmen, and compared to that, let's say, the significantly smaller number of businessmen who will be officially scared or ill, so financially it is a small matter, but the result for the epidemic, if we don't get out during the month 20,000 people will not do business instead of staying at home, so it has a great effect. We've been counting on epidemiologists and modellers, and if it can be implemented across society, it has the potential to reduce R by up to two tenths. So I am simply calling for you to really think about and support the amendment that will provide sufficient financial compensation for all traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u17	Now with the priority right of Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and will be prepared in the general debate by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Did you sign up for me twice, Madame, you want to perform twice? No. I've got you here now and then the fourth in line. [[Mrs Valachová speaks off the microphone.]] I just didn't hear you. Good. There you go. I'm gonna smash you, the last one, okay? Okay. Now I've killed you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be right back as soon as I find the exact text. I will respond to Mrs Richterová. Of course, that's not just a media statement, I could hardly afford to say anything and do anything else. So we're working on this novel, going through the review process, going to the government on Monday. It's not an amendment, it's a new law, because those amendments have been so much for a compensation bonus that I've decided it's going to be a new law. And I don't think he's that strict. The spring wave - almost every compensation bonus. The fact that we have paid about 26 billion to date and some 1.5 million requests for Financial Administration are being processed speaks in itself. Of course, autumn was set a bit more strictly because we were based on the fact that gradually individual fields closed, and that is why I decided to make a new law, that there could be a bigger one, as we agreed politically on the government, more daily compensation, that there would be a reduction in the percentage of 80 to 50 per cent, and now we are taking up unions, with chambers and, of course, with the Union of cities and municipalities and with the governors who write to me, the whole law and form of compensation. But now about your question or the subject you've opened up here. Of course, we are also dealing with this problem there. It wasn't quite easy because you have two groups: the first group are businessmen who have a forbidden activity or limited activity, so they reach a compensatory bonus. From 1 February we will propose 1000 crowns a day. We believe there is no need to deal with anything. If they receive a compensatory bonus, we won't deal with it, I guess we agree, that's for sure. And then there's the group you're targeting. This is a group of those who do not have limited activity, normally do business and have to be quarantined. And that's where we propose a provision to give them a compensation bonus for every day in quarantine. But I say, there's still a review procedure going on for every day in quarantine of the same amount, CZK 370 per day as proposed in this law. But in order to get it, they'd either prove it by quarantine or failure, so we're technically fine-tuning it right now. It'll be in the compensation bonus bill. But we suggest at this stage that it concerns those who are insured in sickness. We've got both options, even those, but I'm leaning towards the more restrictive option, I'm saying it quite frankly, at this point. But I'm telling you, we're fine-tuning this, and this law will go to the House on Monday, if we can make a deal here. I was talking to President Faltýnek that it would be probably 18th and budget, 18th in a state of legislative emergency, but these are all things that are still running. So we have it set up in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u19	Now again, one factual point, and it will be Mr Martin Jiránek, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová is ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u20	Thank you so much, Madam Secretary, for explaining your point of view. I would like to add: The 370 crowns will be given by the regular employee to the already sick person, while the self-employed person - I know, but the idea is that we want him to really stay at home. And if he gets CZK 5,000 in 14 days of quarantine or illness, I guarantee you that the vast majority of them will just go to work because he needs the money. Next to a colleague who is locked up, he gets 15,000 in that period, and whoever is sick and after whom we want him to do good will, because he may not have any big symptoms to stay at home, so he gets 5,000 and still has to make a contribution. That means he's gonna do something for the next two weeks, half the money. So you leave him 2,500 for 14 days, and you want him to stay home for 14 days, even if he's okay. But he's gonna go to work for 14 days instead, and he's gonna deliver it. So I'm really appealing to think about it - it's not hundreds of billions, it's money for thousands of people, tens of thousands of people once in a while, this guy won't be quarantined for six months. So if we're going to manage this epidemic somehow, let's think about the positive motivation complexly, not this little thing. Seriously, let's give them some real money, something like they're taking away your closure compensation. And then let's tell them, let's do this deal, the state does business with you, the deal, stay home, and we'll give you enough money. Because we want you to stay out of it. [[The Minister's response from the scene.]] But that only gets the one who pays for it, yes, but that pays one quarter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u21	Time, Mr. Ambassador! Feel free to log in again. And now, with Mrs Olga Richterová in fact. Please, you have the floor, Madame, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am very pleased that the Minister has taken this key point into account in the preparation of the law. I'm glad they took that into consideration. However, I will repeat again: This really important message is, at present, sickness insurance for businessmen works so that the first 14 days never get anything. It's just a big difference from employees. And that's why what my fellow previous speaker said here is that a businessman who would get according to this proposal, who at least already takes into account that even a businessman who doesn't receive a compensation bonus from a closed operation, has some positive motivation, so he really only gets 370 per day. Just and only 5,000 in 14, 15 days, but from that, he'll take 2,500 on social and health terms, just on charges, back. That's 5,000 for a whole month for the commission tradesmen. And on that point, I want to point out: that is really, really very little in the pandemic situation, in a situation where people have run out of savings. I would very much like to ask you to consider whether those 370 would not be much more useful to our whole country given the cost of a total lockdown, what are the costs of overall management of the pandemic. Give those 370 epidemiologically ordered quarantines to all the businessmen and covideo patients. And for those who pay sick leave, to raise it to 500 crowns, to make it at least a little more motivating. Just give an exceptional situation exceptional rules. And I am saying this because we need, in particular, to motivate this population. And money works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u23	Now another point of fact, Mr Martin Jiránek. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Olga Richterová has partially explained it. It's really about the fact that I understand that you want to react in some way to those who pay for the sick leave. I get it, but the main one - and the secretary talked about it - the main motive is to keep these people at home. And it's not about you, you, you, you don't pay your sick leave, we're not giving you anything. We want to keep the sick ones at home! Just take a look at the situation and tell people in some way: Here you have enough extra money when we're pulling your bills off so you can at least survive at home for 14 days, and don't really go to work, because we don't want you to spread it out among the other 5, 10, 15 people. There's no point in giving one quarter of the businessmen who pay sick leave as a reward. We have to reschedule the thinking and say it backwards. I don't know anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u25	Now with the priority right of Secretary Alena Schillerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Ambassador, I'm not gonna be here for a few crowns. I'm not even gonna make any promises here. Believe me, we'll consider it, we'll compare, we'll look for some primary justice. On the other hand, I have great doubt that we will actually achieve what you're talking about here, but I'm not going to lower it here in any way. [[12.20 hours]] On the other hand, I believe that you will also consider, when we consider certain of your requirements here, and this is not only in connection with this law, we are actually talking about relatively low amounts here, but also with other proposals that are being made, whether on a compensatory bonus, and I point out that it will also be important to decide on the amendment to the State Budget Act, so I believe that we will bring these issues together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u27	Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak and Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. There you go. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] No, no, no, I accidentally blew off Mrs. Kateřina Valachová because she was logged in twice, and it doesn't come out from behind the system. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u28	Mr President, if I can only correct you, my colleague had to go to a radio show, which is why she actually rejoined at the end. And otherwise, I'm an Aulická, so if you don't mind, I'd be talking right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u29	No, I know that. Let's do it again. Mrs Kateřina Valachová was in line. She jumped in there again as a fourth, which means she was the first and the fourth, so I wanted to rub her out as a fourth, which, of course, doesn't work in the system, so it went from the first place. I made a note of her. I have not been told by Mrs Kateřina Valachová that because of her appearance on the Czech Radio, she was first checked out, and then I saw you as an Aulická Member, I know her, which is why I called on you. I cannot call upon Mrs Valachová for her will if she has been registered there. So I challenged her, explained it, so, please, you have the floor now, and Mrs. Kateřina Valachová remains third. Please. So I'm in control, don't worry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I believe blondes won't confuse you anymore. Allow me to proceed to my performance. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, we, of course, want to comment on this proposal for a KSČM parliamentary club. I have to say, frankly, that I am irritated by the comparison of Minister Maláčová to the so-called isola. I really don't know how you like it, but it reminds me of something else at first sight. At the same time, I would like to say that the reasoning behind this proposal, that we motivate people to test themselves and stay at home in quarantine, seems to me that this measure will simply not work. That's one thing. Of course, we perceive that in practice, people are actually running out of finance in the system, the lockdown is already very long, and it was said here in the previous discussion that, above all, the self-employed, the business people and, of course, the employees who deal with their situation are really rubbing away the poverty and all the resources they may have had have exhausted long ago. It is true that we should look at this area as it comes out in practice and who is really the worst at the moment. In any case, I think that this amendment, or rather this approach, can also bring far more problems in practice. I'm not saying that this may not be the right view of getting money among our citizens, but the initial reason we're doing this, the fact that they're going to have tests, the benefit is going to be almost zero. I stand by it. We discussed it, and these people really don't see it that way. And at the same time, we would have seen for us if the 370 crowns were really guaranteed for the low-income ones, but that's just not the case. On the contrary, they will have these benefits or this amount reduced, and those people who, I don't want to say they don't need it, it will certainly be nice for them in any case, they will get it all. And I think it's already bringing injustice into it. Or, okay, at 28,000 and higher, they're not gonna get it either, but on the other hand, I think it's those who aren't gonna fill that amount, with the low-income ones, that's where they're gonna be short. That's how I read it, that's how I see it. And as far as I know, Madam Secretary spoke of it. Maybe she'll disprove us. I'll keep watching her show. I am glad that a part of Minister Schillerová versus representatives of the pirát was also heard here, because we were also interested in the area of earners who pay their insurance and who also do not have the opportunity to operate, because even there we think there really should be a claim, although they really have it quite differently. We wonder if even 15 days of quarantine, what I think my colleague Richterová suggests, would be a bad idea, on the other hand it is mostly 10 days. Now let me give you an example. For example, we have kindergarten in Most where, due to the ill course of the staff, the quarantine is automatically extended, and it can be seen that the disease that is accompanying us here is not the simple dent that will be passed over within three or ten days. We all know, we talk about it every day, that the consequences are long-term, not just tiredness, but other things, and it really crushes people in the next job. It is, of course, also visible in their other health. But I think we should finally open the topic of testing, because I talk to these employers, I talk to them, and they don't have such a problem testing, but if they want to buy antigen tests, one costs CZK 300.50. When they want to be tested every three days, the ordering system is usually flooded forward for two weeks. This means when they have both medium-sized companies or even larger, but even less tendency to have their people tested at least once every five days, so in reality they have no option in the current situation. That is why I am glad that we have managed to include this point in the Health Committee, so that we can even think about what forms of testing we have, not only antigenic but also PCR, and what tests are actually in the Czech Republic. And I am saying this precisely because I am very concerned that the great pressure from China - that is, the ones that are being used today, especially PCR, are being imported from China and other countries - but in the Czech Republic we also have companies that can produce these tests, and I think if we continue to discuss and discuss with them that it might also be worth a different amount than the current tests. I hope that next week's health committee will be the so-called excavation, because, of course, it also depends on loosening up in schools and what the Ministry of Education is preparing with the Ministry of Health - at least that is what we hope - what it wants to do in the framework of testing and pilot testing programmes for children. For us, I'm saying that if we were to test in schools, we'd just be for non-invasive ways. I was on a PCR test with my daughter, she's six years old, and I can tell you that I can't get her there again. It's traumatic for them, and I think that if we want to do something about it in the future and really test it, it's really just a non-invasive way for me, and that's why we need to talk about it. Today we will support Mr Chvojka and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's amendments to this press. We are identified with them, and I have defended them more or less in entering the press of the so-called cursarbeit, because we really think that they have their logic and are needed in the system and for the future. I'm just appealing to what Secretary Schillerová said here. I would be very pleased if what she said was being prepared, the legislation, in order to really take into account the system of compensation for self-employed workers who work, who do not have a closed establishment and, of course, carry out social and health insurance. I think that this area, and these people, is one of the most - I have to say this - damaged people who are not receiving or helping very little in compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u31	Now I have two factual points, and then with the Prime Minister's priority right. But first, the actual notes. Or are you on the verdict, Madam Secretary? No, no. So factual points - first Mrs Olga Richterová, then Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský and then with priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. In those two minutes, I would like to argumentatively justify the motivation of people to test and trace. Mrs Aulická, my previous speaker, said that she does not think that financial motivation will work. We're behind the pirát from those parties that want data on these things, they want the support. I would like to quote what is known from the PAQ Research research that everyone can find, it is paqresearch.cz. There you will find analysis for loss of intake and /de/motivation for self-insulation and testing. It follows that if financial motivation increases, many more people, 20 percent of them, will go to the tests, will be scared away. Let me sum up the facts again. There's only about one-third of the risky population going through our testing today. Tracing is reported on average only as if people had contact around one, but it would be expected that people have three to four epidemiologically significant contacts. And now hospitals report that they have about half of the people who haven't been tested before. These are all data that together show that people don't go to testing. I can really recommend research from PAQ Research. It shows how this measure can actually work. Research in this regard is important to us, and that is why we are so pushing for this measure and we are glad that we are finally having a real discussion here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u33	Now a point of fact - Mr Vít Kaňkovský and further will be prepared for Mr Martin Jiránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u34	Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, briefly to both previous speakers. We clearly consider KDU-ČSL important to motivate people to act more responsible in quarantine and possibly isolation with COVID-19 disease. In my opinion, the contribution and financial motivation in this respect can help. As much as it will be, of course, the practice will show. But I would follow up on what my colleague Aulická Jírovcová, through the President, said. When it comes to testing, we've had a lot of sleep here. We have already pointed out in the spring wave 2020 that it is necessary to test more and also to stratify those forms of tests more. We'll discuss this next week on the Health Committee, but it's not the first kick out. We have already discussed this very closely last week on the Health Sub-Committee, which is led by Professor Válek. If today we are considering testing in more massive form in companies, we should have had it here in the autumn and we also pointed it out and called for it. Too bad it didn't happen. As far as schools are concerned, I completely agree with my colleague Aulicka Jírovcová that it is necessary to select non-invasive forms of testing. If we want parents to be calm and send children to schools, we need to select tests that are as reliable as possible, but are safe as possible in the sense that they will be least invasive. I totally agree with that. And just maybe on the margo of this matter: it would be very good for the Ministry of Health to cooperate with the Ministry of Education, because we can talk a lot about it on the Health Committee, but it needs to be connected to the Ministry of Education. It's just for refills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u35	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Martin Jiránek, and then with the right of priority, Minister Maláčová, but with the fact that if there is any other factual point, you will go into action. [[The minister gestures.]] You asked for priority? Yeah, you wanted to cancel. Oh, I didn't understand your gesture. Okay, thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. I'd like to talk to my colleague Aulická about the motivation. States such as Denmark, and many others, who have focused on raising sickness payments to 100 percent of their salary in the framework of the measure, show that there is compliance in that state, as the word is used, compliance with measures significantly higher, and people observe it because they feel a certain fair approach of the state to one another. Saying that you think or that you assume that the percentage of people who would follow it doesn't increase, or they won't go to the test because they get the money or report isn't helping at the beginning at all in the given situation. On the contrary, it would be good if we could somehow reconcile and really communicate this idea positively by all of us. And just the tests. I'm sure I agree there. Just to give you an idea: Denmark, which I've already mentioned, ran tests of about 1.4-1.5 per person, and we're now at 0.45. So if the Dán had the same population as us, they'd already have 15 million tests per person. [[right 15 million tests]] And that's why they have - now I don't know exactly how many - but multiples less infected and multiples less dead. So I agree with the testing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u37	Mr Petr Beitl will now appear and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find this discussion a bit like a debate about the time of the cards. Karen's time is also a very positive step at first sight, but when you know the situation and you can uncover the lid, what the situation looks like in practice and what the burden of the system and entrepreneurs means that there is nothing very positive about it. I consider this process to be social engineering. I am based on my own practical experience based on the views of many entrepreneurs who wrote to me after my first speech on this topic in the House. The potential for abuse of this measure is not treated in any way. It is not treated or chained quarantine in one person. From this point of view, it is also, at first glance, a commendable effort by colleague Richterová, through Mr President, to bring businessmen into the system, to make it fair, something that, moreover, gives it a crown. Employee abuse can lead to serious problems in so far-functioning companies. Abuse by businessmen is virtually nothing in the way. The quarantine is formal, there is no check of compliance with quarantine conditions. Unlike Minister Maláčová, through Mr President, I know that the motivation to stay home for 90 percent of wages can be very high for many. In addition, the entire administration is transferred again to entrepreneurs, to employers. So once again, it's social engineering. Each amendment only complicates this and opens up other ways for abuse. The irresponsible won't follow the rules anyway, and they won't be at home. And to avoid being negative, I believe that the main motivation of those who have come into contact with the infection should be concern for their own health and, above all, responsibility for the health of their loved ones. At the same time, the proposal is unfair to all those who are long-term ill with other diagnoses. We must honestly say that the real way out of the problems is the proposals that we are going to discuss here in the discussion of the prolongation of the emergency situation, and above all, it is a solid system and vaccination plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u39	I now call on Mrs Kateřina Valachová to speak. In the meantime, I'll read one apology. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes today from 11.45 to 13.00 for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u40	Mr President, colleagues, fellow government, I would like to support this proposal because I believe that increasing the contribution to quarantine sickness or any illness as a result of COVID-19 is the right way - obviously not the only way, but the right way - to ensure that we are able to bring the country back to normal and to ensure safety, in this case workers and workers. However, I would like to remind you that it is not just about eliminating punishment for a disease that I consider absolutely unacceptable especially in times of pandemic. Although I confess to my predecessor that I do, it has to do with the overall approach to how we are provided in the Czech Republic by sickness, let's say outside the pandemic. But I don't want to go back to this debate on the recovery of sickness from day one, although I think this thing is helping us to fight the pandemic, and it would certainly be worse if it weren't. However, at the same time, I want to convince the previous speakers - and I will repeat myself to some extent, but I want to emphasise this here again in the Chamber of Deputies - that, of course, for things to work to a thousand percent and the fight against pandemics has been effective, only increasing sickness will not help us. This is a question of dignity in sickness, a question of people following measures, not being afraid to report to contact. But it has to go hand in hand with testing, safety at the workplace, security of protective equipment, adjustment of the number of employees at the workplace. In short, these things must work hand in hand. I would like to encourage our ministers, both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to be on our premises, businesses and companies after a year of pandemic - because industry has not stopped since spring - in this a little more stringent in terms of the safety of workers and workers at the workplace. We can give ourselves good examples, such as the Škoda Auto or the Třinec Ironworks. Of course, I am proud of these businesses, including the way corporate cultures approach today to the protection and safety of work at the time of the pandemic. Thank them for that. However, we do not lie to ourselves, Members, that this is how it works in most of our businesses, companies, exchange offices, businesses. It's not like that. We talk about it every time we prolong the emergency. We, as Members, are being addressed by people who describe what they are facing. The Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions, but also the trade unions of health professionals and the Czech Medical Chamber, warn us about this. We should not pretend that their warning signals are false and allow ourselves to be carried away only by good examples of our honest companies, which do not underestimate the safety of work during the pandemic. I just want to read you a comment from the employees that I received just when I was discussing this point. It was a reaction to my previous speakers, who had just drawn attention to this practice in the factories. "The situation is even worse, including intimidation, so that we don't get tested. Just three to five days at home before the fever subsides, and then the barracks back to the belt or the supermarket's cash register. Traders are failing, and the big industry is moving on like it's not falling apart." I wanted to read it to you this way because I think there's something true about it. And it's true that I hear more and more about these practices week after week. That is why, Members of Parliament, I would like to call on you, in addition to increasing sickness in quarantine, as is currently being discussed, and this is the right step by the government, to give clear rules for security at the workplaces during the pandemic and for employees after a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u41	Now here's a point of fact. Member Tereza Hyťhová will appear and then prepare herself with priority rights President Marian Jurečka KDU-ČSL. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. In short, I would like to say our position for the Tricolor movement. We cannot support this proposal, because of what my previous speaker from the ODS, Mr Beitl, has already presented here, who basically said it exactly. This proposal is completely discriminatory. Maybe he can - I'm not saying that he can't - be a motivation for someone to stay home for CZK 370 extra. I'm not saying it can't be a motivation for anyone. Yes, it can. But on the other hand, I don't think it's gonna save anyone, especially our businessmen and businessmen. Because they're completely forgotten here. If the establishments were to open, if the restaurants were to open, if they could and followed strict hygiene regulations, we wouldn't even have to have this law here. But the state prefers to pay less than CZK 400 per day a man in quarantine instead of allowing our businessmen and entrepreneurs to work, even if they comply with strict hygiene regulations. Moreover, this proposal is totally discriminatory because it is only people in quarantine with covid. And what about the other people who are sick and have a completely different disease are sick, so they're not gonna get you anything. These are just people who are home with covid. So we are not going to support this proposal, and I would really rather go along the way of helping businessmen to get on their feet at their own risk. And I believe that they would comply with these hygiene regulations. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u43	Now as the last in the general debate, so far signed with priority rights, is the President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, both of them, and Minister, colleagues, colleagues. I must say, I am glad to see KDU-ČSL that this proposal is finally here. Because what we've been pointing out in the long run is that we can't separate just a part of restrictions, restrictions, and forget a part of motivations and certain feedback and ask how people deal with restrictions. And whether the whole situation would not have been significantly more efficient and, overall, more cost-effective if such motivation had been here much earlier. We can talk about parameters, there's gonna be a debate about amendments, whether it's gonna get longer or longer for 14 days or so. That's for debate. But from my point of view, we also need to talk about how to deal with this in terms of access to employers. It's also important to open up here, and the government should respond to that. Because it's not just this step, because these things are connected. It's one thing to give people, parents, people a chance to be responsible and stay at home. The second thing is to look at what it means to employers. I believe that when these things connect and when the government works well with data, but also with feedback, we are able to do so much faster, more efficiently, without the need for extensive restrictions to contribute to the fact that the total number of transmissions of the infected will decrease significantly. This is the difference in the success that we see in other states around us that they understand the situation of those people - that I cannot ask a parent who is alone to stay home under quarantine or in having a covid or his children at home, and that person loses 40 percent of his income. We know families that it's spreading and they're at home for three or four weeks because they're gradually infected with each other, and these people have a huge problem. We've got families, I've got stories that covid has had for the second time in the last four months. It's not funny, it's not funny. So I am so sorry that what we called for - and we and the Pirates have put forward this proposal before, we actively supported it, I just want to know the answer from the members of the government - why you didn't do this before. It was an experience from the first wave, we said so. Why wasn't it here in November or December? I think that the total costs that cost us CZK one and a half billion every day - we and our children - could have been much lower. And we could have been in that situation today, which could have been much better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u45	I will now look around to see if anyone else in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. So, Madam Secretary. And then the rapporteur is interested, too? You don't, after, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u46	So very briefly, because time is running out. Traders - I think there is a consensus that they need to also be entitled to an isola. This is very important, and as the Minister of Finance has promised, the Ministry of Finance is handling it through a compensatory bonus. I didn't want to open an epidemiological window here and mention it as part of my introductory word testing, tracing, prevention and all of these things, because I think we're going to have enough to deal with it and discuss it in an emergency situation, but of course the isola and this proposal is not self-savvy. Without all these things, it won't make sense and it won't work. I very much support all the three amendments that have been made here, that is, Mr Chvojka's amendment to JIS PSF, then, of course, the registration of uninsured agreements by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and also the new system for reporting job vacancies at labour offices, because these are things that can also help us cope with the unemployment situation in the coming weeks and months, which is likely to continue to grow as a result of the pandemic. As far as the debate is concerned about the advantages of covid and other diseases, their discrimination, I warn you that the proposal is based on infectiveness, and the contribution, the isola, will be given to all infectious diagnoses. That's something to keep in mind. That means it's really quarantined. This alleged abuse is treated as any other disease. No employee can voluntarily quarantine himself, always decide on the quarantine and order it by a doctor. Last two notes. Employers often contradict themselves and I say this knowing that I praised the social dialogue because they want to test more - that is true and we praise it, that is commendable, but at the same time they expect no one to stay home. This is particularly in response to Mr Beitl. But it can't be, it's logical, it's a contradiction, it's an oxymoron. If I want to test more, I have to assume that I'm going to catch a disease, and then I have to count on those people staying at home. At the same time, it has to do with the fact that people must not be afraid of testing, they must not be afraid that if they go for tests, it will mean a fall in income for them. As for the impressionology that was going on here, whether it's gonna work or not. Please, let's rely on what the experts tell us and what the numbers and dates tell us. You know that this proposal is linked to the fact that we will evaluate it regularly every two weeks, possibly parametrically. And I understand that, for Members, 370 crowns a day is not enough. I understand that, but believe it, for people with median wages, that means a lot of money, even for people with average wages. This means that this proposal, I think, is the right way, we're going to keep evaluating it, and we're going to see how much it works. I am very convinced of its benefits for the management of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u47	So I am now opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková came forward. Otherwise, as rapporteur, I warn her that you will also be given the opportunity to say the final word afterwards, even after a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor. And Ambassador Lucie Šafránková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, very quickly at this point. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 7451, which concerns job vacancy reporting. I have already justified it briefly in the general debate and the detailed reasoning is in the written text, in the document which is based on the system. Furthermore, I would like to apply to Amendment 7448 - Recording of uninsured agreements on work outside employment and employment in a small-scale employment relationship, these are the records of employment agreements and the performance of work. I have also reasoned in the general debate, and the detailed reasoning is in the document that is already in place in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u49	Now, before I give the floor to Mrs Lucia Šafránková, I just have information that it will take about 45 minutes to process the amendments. Therefore, I suggest that you have no objection to this, that we arrive at a detailed debate, because then we still need 45 minutes and we still have a lunch break. And then, after the end of the detailed debate, it would have been processed in the meantime, and at 14.30 we would have started and continued. So then we'd still have to declare again, so it's useless... Okay. So, please, Mrs Lucie Šafránková will now speak and Mr Jan Chvojka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the amendments of the SPD to the draft law on the extraordinary contribution of staff in the context of the regulation of quarantine. These are House documents number 7445 and 7446. In the first amendment, we propose to this law to supplement the Institute of Emergency Allowance also for self-employed workers, who have been ordered quarantined and who are also participants in sickness insurance, concluded at the latest on 1 February of this year. We do not see a single reason why these properly ill-health insurance businessmen do not have the same legal and financial conditions as employees at the time of the Coronavirus epidemic when they are ordered to be quarantined. This would rightly be seen as discrimination against them and as a punishment for their responsible behaviour. In the second amendment, we propose that this exceptional contribution be paid to all employees at the same and uniform level, i.e. CZK 370 for each calendar day of the duration of the quarantine ordered without any further restrictions. This measure aims in particular at helping workers with lower incomes. There's no reason for him to be cut off in any way. At present, there could be significant interference in their income situation with the risk that they will not be able to pay all their compulsory rent and energy advances. The same measure is also part of the first proposal concerning traders. Thank you, and I beg your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u51	Mr Jan Chvojka will now speak in a detailed debate, Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u52	Good afternoon, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have already presented and justified my amendment in the general debate, so I am now formally signing up for it, as the Rules of Procedure and our rules govern it. My amendment is registered under number 1153 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u53	Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear and Mr Petr Beitl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u54	My amendments have already been tabled concerning the contribution for self-employed persons. So they're both businessmen with paid sickness insurance and those who didn't pay him, and then extension because of reality, because of how it works in real life, 10 days for 14 days. I'm stressing 14. The numbers are 7397, 7399 and 7400. So these are the amendments that I am reading, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u55	Mr Petr Beitl will be the last to perform. [[He doesn't want to.]] You won't get out again. And Mr. Jan Chvojka will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u56	Thanks again for the word. I'm sorry, I got two numbers wrong here. Of course, it's press 1153. My amendment, to which I therefore sign up in the context of a detailed debate, is registered under number 7447. Thank you for understanding. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u57	So, let me look around, I'm ending a detailed debate, but I'm asking if there's an interest in the final words. Mrs Gajdůškovášková is interested in the final words. Only then, after the final word, will I end the second reading of this proposal and declare a break. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Just really fast. I do not feel that the rapporteur should comment on the speech, so I merely note that six Members and Members have spoken in the general debate, in detail four. No motion to reject has been filed, so we can end the second reading and continue with the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u59	Madam Secretary, are you interested in speaking? [[No.]] So that concludes the second reading of this proposal. We have a minute, so I'd like to call a break and we'd see each other - because we still need 45 minutes to process the amendments, so there's no point in continuing that minute, I'd still have to call a break - so I'm declaring it and we're going to continue at 14.30 hours. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u60	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our adjourned negotiations for the lunch break. We are still at point 1 of our meeting and it is a government bill on the extraordinary contribution of employees in the ordered quarantine. We're at the third reading. You have been given amendments. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table, and we can begin the third reading. I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková to follow with me at the rapporteur's table at the third reading that I am opening. I state that there is no written application at the third reading. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I see no one, so I can end the debate. I ask: is there interest in final words? It's not like that. In that case, I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure and tell us how we will vote individually. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Madame Members, let me read the draft procedure at this point, as the amendments have been tabled. First of all, we will not vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments because... [[The President: There are none.]] ... have not been tabled in the debate, and then the procedure begins with a proposal for a vote on individual amendments. Under point A1, Mrs Gajdůškovášková's amendment, job vacancies, under point A2 will again be Mrs Gajdůšková's amendment on agreements, registration of agreements. In addition, point B1, Mrs Šafránková. If it is adopted, there will be unvoteable amendments D1, D2, D3 and B2, these are contributions for self-employed persons. Furthermore, paragraph D1 of Mrs Richterová. If accepted, unvoting D2 is again self-employed. Furthermore, if possible, point D2, self-employed persons, participants in sickness insurance. Furthermore, point B2, if accepted, will be unvoting D3. If it is not adopted, we will therefore vote in D3 again, Mrs Richterová, this is an extension to 14 days. And as Mr Chvojka's last amendment, which regulates the uniform information system of work and social affairs - it goes to the Czech Social Security Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. That was the design of the procedure. Does anyone else have a proposal to change the procedure? If not, we'll approve the procedure. But first, I'm shutting you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The proposed procedure, which no one is trying to change, will we vote in the vote number 10 that I have launched, and I ask, who is in favour of the proposed voting procedure? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 10: 94 Members present, for 93, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can start with individual amendments. You have the floor with the first amendment. I'll always ask the Minister for an opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u63	Yes, thank you for your word. The first amendment is my amendment, i.e. Mrs Gajdůšková. It concerns the obligation to report vacant posts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u64	Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 11. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 11, out of 96 for 61 Members present, against 14. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u65	The next proposal is under the letter A2, once again mine, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. It's a motion to file a deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u66	Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 12. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 12, 98 for 62 Members present, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. It is also Mrs Šafránková's amendment under letter B1. If adopted, there will be unvoting amendments D1, D2, D3 and B2. This proposal concerns the contribution for self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u68	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I started voting number 13. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 13, out of 98 for 32 Members, against 1. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u69	It is therefore also Amendment D1 to Mrs Richterová. If accepted, unvoting point D2 is. This proposal concerns self-employed persons, i.e. all self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u70	Okay, thank you. Madam Secretary, an opinion? [[Neutral.]] I started voting number 14. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 14, out of 98 present for 32, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u71	We can therefore vote on Amendment D2, once again Mrs Richterová, again concerning self-employed persons, but those who are involved in sickness insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u72	Madam Secretary, an opinion? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 15. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 15, out of 96 present 98 for 33, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u73	The next proposal is the amendment under B2. If accepted, then D3 is unvoting. It is Mrs Šafránková's amendment to abolishing the ceiling of 90 per cent of her income.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u74	Madam Secretary, an opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 16. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 16, 99 present, 27 pros, 1 pros. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u75	We can also vote on paragraph D3 of Mrs Richterová. This amendment proposes extending the payment of the contribution to 14 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u76	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 17. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 17, 99 present, for 18, against 24. The motion was not accepted. One last suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. The last is Mr Chvojka's amendment, which regulates the uniform information system of work and social affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u78	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 18. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 18, out of 99 in favour of 68, against 2. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted all the proposals for the vote. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u79	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u80	We can proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the extraordinary contribution of employees under the order of quarantine, according to the House press 1153, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I started voting number 19. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 19, 99 Members present, for 80, against 14. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u81	I also thank all those who supported this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-001-001.u82	We will continue the negotiations with a point
