ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill on compensation bonus for the year 2022 /German press 51/ - shortened negotiations The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me very briefly to justify the draft law on compensation bonus for 2022, which aims again at economically supporting self-employed persons, members of small companies with limited liability and so-called brokers. In this context, I would like to remind you that the compensatory bonus provided support to its beneficiaries from the very beginning of the Coronavirus epidemic. First, in spring 2020, a bonus was granted on a relatively broad basis, where it was sufficient for the entrepreneur to be able to demonstrate that he could not carry out his activities in whole or in part as a result of an epidemic or related public administration measure. In this way, quick and effective support was provided. During the following autumn wave of coronavirus, a second generation of compensatory bonus was introduced, in which case there was a more consistent focus on those entrepreneurs who were directly affected by state anti-epidemic measures. In the spring of this year, a third compensatory bonus was introduced, which once again provided support not only to entrepreneurs affected by state measures, but also to those affected otherwise by the epidemic, for example by the customers' tide. The key criterion for the creation of a claim here was the decline in the sales of the entrepreneur. At the same time, I would like to stress that compensatory bonuses have always been positively assessed as an instrument for supporting entrepreneurs, including in the House of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. In connection with all three existing bonuses, the financial administration settled approximately 2.4 million applications and, in summary, over 44 billion crowns were paid on bonuses. The proposed proposal is now closely linked to the previous Compensation Bonus Act for 2021, but, given its one-off character, it has not been amended, but the proposed new Act is proposed. However, in terms of content, most of the adjustment is the same as in the previous law. In fact, the present proposal is only an update of the adjustment of the compensatory bonus and its partial adaptation to the current conditions. The renewed compensatory bonus will be granted to compensate for the effects on the activities of entrepreneurs that occurred as a result of the anti-epidemic measures of the State authorities. The decline in revenue corresponding to sales of products, goods and services resulting from the business activity in question will again be assessed as compared to the comparative period of this summer, which was not affected by government restrictions. However, it will also be remembered for seasonal entrepreneurs who carry out their activities during the winter period, which will be offered an alternative comparative period from before the outbreak of the epidemic. A key change compared to the previous bill is the condition of decreasing sales by only 30 per cent instead of the previous 50 per cent. At this point, I would like to stress that, as in the past, the parameters of the bill have been consulted with representatives of entrepreneurs and the professional public, in particular the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Trade and Tourism, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Tax Advisors and other experts. The issue of the percentage decline in sales was discussed, when the original proposal of the Ministry of Finance worked to maintain the 50% limit, but on the basis of the incentives resulting from the above consultations, we accepted a decline in sales of 30% in terms of symmetry with the proposed subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The draft law guarantees two bonus periods, the first from 22 November to 31 December 2021 and the second corresponding from January 2022. As in the past, the government will at the same time receive a mandate to introduce additional bonus periods as a calendar month until the end of 2022, if anti-epidemic measures still take place at that time - I hope not. The amount of the compensation bonus will again amount to a maximum of CZK 1000 per day net. It is untaxed money, i.e. a total of CZK 40,000 for the first bonus period and CZK 31,000 for the second bonus period. At the same time, the bonus will be individually placed in such a way as to avoid unfair overcompensation in the case of small sales entities. In the case of negotiators, the existing bonus of CZK 500 per day will be maintained. It also remains entitled to a compensatory bonus for days when the entrepreneur had a quarantine or isolation order of at least 500 crowns. [[15.30 hours]] The fourth compensatory bonus, like the third, is based on the principle of integration of aid for entrepreneurs into one quick and simple instrument due to the increased amount attributable to the calendar day of the aid. In particular, the smallest entrepreneurs will not be forced to deal with combinations with other subsidy schemes, combinations with other aids, which are intended primarily for larger entrepreneurs or those who fail to meet the conditions for entitlement to a compensatory bonus. Therefore, it is not proposed in the same way as for the third compensatory bonus possible compliance with the subsidy programmes. Another advantage of such a concept is that the central government authorities will not be overwhelmed by applications for subsidies, the slowdown of the entire process to which those waiting for the subsidy will pay. The compensation bonus will continue to be combined only with Antivirus because it aims at employees and with the COVID - Rent program provided that this program is implemented. The compensation bonus will again be managed as tax under the tax rules, namely the tax authorities. Applications will be made immediately after the end of the respective bonus period, i.e. from January 2022, provided, of course, that the law is effective by then. As before, the compensation bonus will be a reduction in the revenue side of public budgets for the income tax on dependent activities, including an impact on municipal and regional budgets. The existing law contains a system of compensation for most of these impacts in the budget of municipalities and regions from the state budget in the form of a contribution corresponding to the real share of municipalities and regions in financing the compensatory bonus. This system is also maintained for the renewed compensatory bonus. The estimated negative budgetary impact of the bill on the first two bonus periods is CZK 10.4 billion on public budgets, of which CZK 9.6 billion on the state budget, CZK 0.6 billion on municipal budgets and CZK 0.2 billion on regional budgets. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the day following the date of publication in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 51/1. I would now like the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of the reasons for any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u4	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present my report and inform you of the way in which the Committee decided on this press. The proposal to activate the new compensatory bonus is presented to us because of new government measures, in particular the transition to the O-N regime, which has been restricted by the government from 22 November to certain services of a part of the population, thereby excluding them from consumption, which ultimately means reducing sales in particular in the service sector. There is no doubt that government covido measures have an impact on the economic performance of our economy, and therefore on the revenue of the state. The compensation for the measures, in turn, affects the expenditure side of the budget, namely the compensation bonus, because it has the character of a refund. On the other hand, government anti-pandemic measures are not a classic business risk and there is a legitimate expectation of compensation for losses caused by individual measures. That is why the government is proposing the activation of some compensatory measures, and one of them is also a compensatory bonus. We will probably never find perfect justice and a perfect solution between these two poles, yet we can try to improve and level out the conditions of these compensations, and from this point of view, the Committee on Budgets, which adopted the following resolution today at its meeting, has also looked at this: I. proposed to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposed to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to hold a detailed debate on all parts of the bill; III. proposed that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 24.00 on 1 December 2021; IV. It recommended to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's draft law on compensation bonus for 2022, the House's press 51, should give its consent as amended by the amendments discussed by the Committee on Budgets and included in the press 51/1, and any amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. At its meeting, the Committee on Budgets dealt with four amendments, which I would like to briefly imagine. The first amendment allows for a compensatory bonus and other programmes. According to the original submitted government amendment, it was only possible to co-operate with the Antivirus programme and the program to be used to pay rent. The proposal recommended and approved by the Committee on Budgets abolishes this restriction and thus allows for a compensatory bonus to be combined with other programmes such as COVID 2021 or COVID - Uncovered costs. The second amendment allows for a compensatory bonus for new businessmen, i.e. those who started business between 1 August and 22 November. She forgot about the original novels. This was not possible for them because they would not have a three-month history for the comparative period, and this amendment corrects this. The third amendment abolishes the exclusion from the aid of those partners s. r. o. who prove their share by the so-called tribal letter, subject to all other conditions of the compensatory bonus. And the fourth amendment is in that which discussed the Committee on Budgets, the content of which is that the quarantine or isolation ordered under the Act on the Protection of Public Health of the Compensatory Bonus is the reason why the entity may apply for a compensatory bonus if it fulfils other conditions, including a decrease in sales by 30 per cent and above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with this proposal that we will have a general debate? Let him press the button, raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 10, 179 Members of Parliament voted in favour of 157, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore opening up a general debate in which two Members have joined us so far. The first is Mrs Lucie Šafránková and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time today, let me introduce you to the position and the amendment I tabled under the SPD. Since the beginning of the epidemic and government restrictive measures, our movement has fully and actively supported the idea of adequate and fair compensation for all citizens, businessmen and companies affected by these measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u7	Madam, I am so sorry. I ask the Members of Parliament to be more quiet in the Chamber. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u8	Thank you, too. However, as in the past, the government's proposal to set a compensatory bonus for a further period of time is unjustifiedly discriminatory in relation to certain limited liability companies or their associates, in the sense that it restricts access to this bonus only to those who are partners of eseróček, which have a maximum of two partners, with a certain exception for eseróček made up of family members according to the very narrow definition of the family, which does not even correspond to the wording of the civil code in the area of family definition. We have also repeatedly pointed out this in the SPD. [[15.40 hours]] If a government proposal grants entitlement to a compensatory bonus only to limited liability companies and their members whose gainful activities have been significantly affected by the impact of government epidemiological measures, it is quite obvious that they are entities and persons whose work and livelihoods have been reduced in a sensitive way, as well as their income has been reduced, irrespective of how many members these entities are made up of. Government restrictions have the same negative economic impact on all entrepreneurs and businessmen in the relevant sectors of trade and services without distinction. As far as multi-member eseros are concerned, we know from experience that it was often the reason for their creation that, in the lower number of persons, the so-called basic financial assets necessary for the creation of society could not be laid down. This means that in a significant part of the cases they are entities and persons whose income and savings are not high enough to ensure decent survival at a time when they have not been able to fully pursue their gainful activities for almost two years. Figuratively speaking: by government restrictive measures, restaurants or hairdressers owned by one, two or three partners or companions are equally affected by government restrictive measures, while more than two-member escorts whose business was limited by government measures have not received a single crown in the past almost two years under the compensatory bonus. Therefore, in the draft law, we propose that any restriction on access to the compensation bonus for eseróček's partners on the number of persons created by these companies be completely discharged and leave only the condition that they must be natural persons whose share of the company is not represented by tribal leaves. Thank you and I beg you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u9	Thank you, too, Madame. Mrs Olga Richterová has also signed up for the general debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, very briefly. I would like to stress that, in fact, one of the objectives of this approval here is also that people learn as much as possible what it is, what support they will be able to draw. Therefore, I would like to stress that, in addition to the subjects, people who are involved in sickness insurance and who are clearly entitled, for example, to medical care, the situation of those who are not insured is, of course, more problematic. And for these self-employed people today, on the Committee's budget committee, we have approved that people have a clear incentive to be straggled, to report their contacts, and to have a clear opportunity to receive a compensatory bonus if they have an ordered isolation or quarantine, and at the same time - and I stress this - their incomes will fall by at least 30% at the same time. So, when these two conditions are met, if an amendment passes, which we will be voting shortly - and I believe it will pass - the range of possible beneficiaries of the compensation bonus will actually be extended to those who need to be in isolation, must be quarantined, but as businessmen may not have been motivated to pay their sickness insurance in the past, because unfortunately, the first two days of illness and sickness insurance do not have businesses equally covered, they do not have covered, and this option, this amendment at least gives them some coverage and support. Once again, I thank the Committee on Budgets for its support. And the combination of a 30% decline in income, and the conditions of isolation or quarantine, guarantees that the plan will be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u11	I, too, thank you, Madame, and I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. And I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Just very briefly. I would like to comment on the amendments tabled, and perhaps now I would like to say a little bit why I will support some and why I will not, if I may. As far as the proposed amendments are concerned - and now it does not matter, there are two similar ones that concern restrictions on the s. r. o. with the share of the so-called tribal leaves. This is an amendment that basically repeated several times in those waves of compensatory bonuses. I say the whole point of the compensation bonus was to support small businessmen, support small eseróčka, we came to this after the debate with the unions, with the chambers, even here with those of you who were here in the last parliamentary term, we discussed it, I understood it. We supported the negotiator, I understood that too. But we didn't want tribal leaves, the intention was to saturate with the partner's compensatory bonus as a real businessman, not as a shareholder. That means the associate is registered, it's clear, it's done by the Financial Administration, transparent. This is something that's harder for us to see. Of course, we can't estimate how many there will be, so the impact will certainly be in the order of lower hundreds of millions in the budget. I'm not talking about it right now, but I'm talking about transparency and that it wasn't the point of a compensatory bonus. And I understand that someone here wants to make up for their pain in some way, but I'm going to say disagreeable, of course aware of the division of the Chamber of Deputies, and it's up to you. I will not agree yet with one amendment, I will give a disagreeable opinion and I will explain it, or Mrs Šafránková has it here, but I think that Mrs Šafránková - that I do not know if he has passed, I do not remember the Committee on Budgets. I don't think it was even loaded. I will not agree with what Mr Munzar has lectured here, and this is the concurrence of a compensatory bonus with other covido programs. It is because there will be a budget make-up, which is certain today, that no one will be able to reach the covido programmes for a very long time, because it will not be possible to pay them and write them in a budget make-up. But purely theoretically: why did we raise the compensation bonus from $500 to $1,000? Well, just so they don't have to line up these smaller ones at the MIT, fill out complicated applications, process complex subsidy programs and take up the place, like I said, even those who are bigger and who need it or fail to reach a compensatory bonus. That's why we put in a thousand crowns clean, clean, please. That's tax-free money. So that's why I'm going to give a disagreeable opinion. And of course, I could say alibis in here, it's gonna be your budget, but I won't say, I'll always breathe with the budget, always, wherever I am. But I'm saying it's another 1.5 billion. So if I add the tribal leaves to that, we're at 2 billion extra in total, please, extra. Otherwise, the impact is about 5 billion of this compensation bonus per month on the income side, so increase it by 2 more, so that's 7, so there's going to be some compensation for the budgets of the regions and municipalities, so it's going to be a little bit more, so you're going to have to cut even more on the spending side. Just a little point, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u14	I'll be very brief. I understand the Minister of Finance in a demise, which rejected some of these amendments in the past, even though they came de facto from the Chamber of Commerce or were a reminder of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs. I will allow myself to briefly suspend the two arguments that the secretary here said. One of them is the above-mentioned tribal leaves. It's a marginal issue for us, but it's principled. The reason for this is that if Czech law allows a limited liability company to be established in any way, there is no reason to exclude those partners from compensation only because they have chosen this form. Of course, as I point out here, for proving all the things that the compensation bonus requires. [[15.50 hours]] The second thing that concerns the co-operation of the compensatory bonus with other covido programmes. There's been a long discussion about that. I would just like to stress that in the private sector, the compensatory bonus is rather seen as a contribution to the businessman, the CEO, or the associate of the small company, can saturate his life costs and the cost of his household, while remaining other payments related to his business, and in many cases the compensation bonus is not enough. I'd argue a little bit with the Minister, who said that that's why the compensation bonus went up from 500 to 1,000 crowns. This increased in the past due to the fact that compulsory payments of social and health insurance were left to them. But these are not all business-related costs, which is why the Committee on Budgets adopted this proposal. It is assumed that such a businessman could apply in other covido programmes, with the fact that he would, of course, deduct from the new aid a compensatory bonus and must, in turn, prove all the details of the other programmes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, rapporteur. I will read an apology before the debate begins in detail. From today's meeting, President Andrej Babiš apologizes for business reasons. I am now opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Lucie Šafránková has applied for the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u16	Thank you and I hereby refer to my amendment, which I have explained in detail in the general debate, and is kept in the system under House document 113.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if the secretary is interested in the final word? . The rapporteur? [[No.]] [[No.]] Not either. No proposals have been tabled on which we should vote, which is why I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Just so you know. Amendments have been distributed to you in the benches, to the House press 49 and to the House press 50. We must now decide how we will proceed, on the ground that we do not yet have amendments to point 3. I ask the President of the Excellent to make a motion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the agreement of Members' Club Chairs today from Gremia, I would like to propose a break for the preparation of the second and third reading of all three proposals together for 40 minutes, or I think that when we meet at 16.30 hours, it is okay, or until 16.30 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u19	So, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I state that we have suspended negotiations until 16.30 hours. Mr. Benešík with technical support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u20	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the members and members of the Committee on European Affairs to take this break and gather in the Office of the Chair of the Committee in House 3. It's an office that's right above the conference room where we've been sitting in at least once before. So House 3. Please come to the President's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u21	Yes, so I'm saying once again that the meeting is adjourned until 4:30 p.m. Then we start the block of third reading points 1, 2 and 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-003-003.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 4:30 p.m., the press with the amendments has been distributed to you on the bench. Now I can still read the apology that has run out in the meantime. Minister Karel Havlíček apologizes from today's meeting from 16.30 pm to the end of the meeting day due to a foreign business trip. I'll wait until there's a little more peace in the room. Opening interrupted point number
