ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u1	6. Government Bill on Digital Services Tax / House Print 658/ - second reading Point was interrupted on 17. 9. at the 58th meeting and on 3. On the 12th of last year, the item was not open for the absence of the appellant, so we started discussing this point on 17 September 2020 at the 58th meeting. The general debate has been interrupted. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Budgets, Member Václav Votava, take the position at the rapporteur's table. 17, actually. 9. He was represented by Mrs Kovářová and I see that he will be represented today by Mr Onderka. I recall that the budget committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 658/1 to 3. Here is the possibility for any speeches by the appellant, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee before the opening of the debate, if they are interested, but I do not see such an interest, so we will continue with the interrupted debate to which other Members are entered. However, Mr Munzar's speech was interrupted, so if he wanted to be present and wanted to continue, he has the option, but I do not see him, so this is failing. I see that Mrs Černochová and then Mr Skopeček are reporting for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am signing up for President Zbyněk Stanjura on the amendment under number 5061 and Amendment 8415. The first amendment under number 5061 is an amendment which -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u3	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask your colleagues in the room for more peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u4	- which leads to the fourth threshold, i.e. the exclusion of companies that provide taxable services in the European area only to a small extent compared to their other activities. The sum of the amounts relating to the provision of taxable services within the territory of the State, of the European Union, of the European Economic Area for the relevant period, calculated in a manner similar to the determined amount of indicator P1 and the total amount of revenue achieved in those States over that period, is the indicator P2. The percentage of P1 and P2 indicators shall be higher than 10 per cent. Therefore, only large predominantly digital companies that provide mainly digital services should become taxable persons. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not contain a concrete justification for why a share of 10 per cent was chosen for the purpose of determining a predominantly digital company compared to other activities of the entity, group of entities. In view of the lack of analytical data, the petitioner, the President of ODS Stanjura, considers this limit to be very conservative and problematic. Companies, or groups to which the legislation is intended primarily, will fulfil this share without any doubt. The share of digital services in their activities will not be negligible and will reach a high percentage. On the contrary, there is considerable doubt as to whether the threshold will not be so low that regulation will affect entities to which it should not and should never have been primarily targeted, namely companies and groups engaged primarily in activities other than digital services. This concern is linked, among other things, to a rather vague definition of individual terms entering the definition of digital services. The definitions can therefore be interpreted quite widely by the tax administrator and the activities to be subject to tax. They can ultimately be relatively extensive. It is not known to the proposer that the government would estimate the risks of the double taxation effect, which could undoubtedly occur through the incorrect procedure of the tax administrator. With the progressive digitalisation of business, there is a serious risk that regulation will target beneficiaries other than those originally intended. The amendment therefore aims to establish a higher limit to the share of digital services in the overall business of group entities in the EEA as the fourth criterion for determining the taxable person. Increasing legal certainty of tax entities and eliminating the risk of depreciation of the efficiency of companies, which will be at the limit of the definition of new taxation of the future at this time by unclear interpretation of the tax administrator. The second changeling - here my speech will be shorter - 8415, once again inserted into the system by Mr President of the Club of Civil Democrats Stanjura, aims to change the government form of the proposal so that it does not significantly jeopardise the functioning of the Czech economy. The newly proposed 3% rate of the digital service tax will meet the basic intention of the proposal, i.e. preventing tax evasion by multinational corporations, and will not, at the same time, deviate from the European average, where France, for example, talks about three percent in discussions on the introduction of this new tax. If a higher rate than the usual rate in the surrounding countries were to be set, the investment potential of the Czech Republic could be threatened, as well as retaliatory customs measures by the US, for example. As regards points 4A to 4C, the reason for delaying efficiency is to create sufficient time for international digital tax solutions to minimise any negative impact of this measure not only on the Czech economy. Thank you for your attention, and I will repeat those figures in a detailed debate. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u5	Yes, thank you. It is necessary to sign up for this in a detailed debate. I would ask for more peace in the room! I have now received a report from Mr Onderka. I don't know if he's the rapporteur, and he wants to exercise priority rights, let me ask? No need. In that case, Mr Martínek, who is registered in writing, then Mr Skopeček, who has applied from the post, then Mr Onderka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u6	Thank you. So I would like to say that already in February 2019, as the pirát, we asked the Ministry to start processing this material, because we are aware of the discriminatory establishment of a market environment between multinational corporations and Czech entrepreneurs, and it is certainly necessary to straighten this out. On the other hand, it is necessary to take such a measure, which will have more positive than the negative, and thus one that will not endanger Czech companies, which will not jeopardise the introduction of countermeasures and other actions against the Czech Republic, for example from the owners' countries concerned. For this reason, we would like the resulting rate, which is set to three different possible areas - one of which is digital advertising, where at this point I understand that the agreement between government parties is at the 5% rate, is not a problem, 5% of digital advertising has, for example, Austria, surely it is something that can be introduced, and I believe that it could also be applied in a fair way - on the other hand, this tax, as it is written, has two other areas. One of them is the provision of a digital multilateral interface and the sale of data. These other two parts are no longer in place in most countries of the world, and if they are, the rate is lower than 5%, namely in France 3%, in Britain 2%. If we put in place a 5% rate, we would probably be countries with the highest rate in the world on a multilateral digital interface and data sales. From this point of view, I would like to ask for consideration of the alternatives that I propose as amendments. The first proposal is the possibility to change the settings in general as France should, i.e. start at a rate of 3%. We draw attention to the good economic relations of the Czech Republic with the countries where most owners of companies come from, which would be subject to a tax on digital services of multinational corporations. The amount of the proposed taxation could amount to an disproportionate equivalent of income tax for some companies concerned, even more than 30%. For the use of a multilateral digital interface for the sale of physical goods, effective taxation could range over 100 percent of the company's current profits. It is therefore necessary to adapt legislation according to the other countries of the European Union. A proposal with an enormously high rate of 7 per cent cannot be submitted, which no other country in the European Union has on multilateral interfaces and others. We therefore propose a reduction of this rate to 3%. We are based on experience from other European countries in which the partial rate of taxation on digital services, the use of a multilateral digital interface and the provision of user data does not exceed 3%. From European countries it is Austria, where, as I said, five percent is introduced there, but only for digital advertising. On the contrary, Austria does not introduce a tax for the use of a multilateral digital interface and the provision of user data. The rate of tax should not be higher in any area than in another Member State of the European Union. Taking into account the level of the rate in other countries can thus contribute to finding consensus in further international negotiations, such as at OECD or EU level, on the introduction of a single digital tax. The second option, if the proposed rate of 3% appeared to be low in the government coalition, is that we propose that the highest rates in the European Union, as they are at the moment, are still lower than the envisaged agreement of 5%, namely that a 5% rate would be introduced to digital tax and the other two, i.e. the sale of data and the multilateral digital interface, a 3% rate was introduced so that we would not be countries with the highest rate on these two other items. [[17.30 hours]] I guess I don't have to do this here again, but it's actually from the point of view that we really stop seeing that the introduction of this tax will collect a few billions, but in its effect it will damage Czech companies that, for example, use the services in question, for distribution of their goods, or measures will be introduced against Czech companies that already meet some criteria so that they might even be part of the tax collection even though they pay standard taxes in the Czech Republic, whether it is income tax and so on. Unfortunately, the current proposal does not count on the fact that the companies in question could deduct what they would do to the tax in question, for example, as a relief for payment of income tax, because at the moment, it is not expected that all the affected payers, to whom the amendment falls, that they would be subject to the presumption of innocence, that they do not abuse tax optimization and the like, but that, for example, they pay taxes as they should. And these are also some Czech companies, such as Avast, who pays, which according to the Ministry of Finance is also one of the largest taxpayers of income tax, several times declared. So I would like to prevent any damage to these Czech companies. Furthermore, if none of these alternatives were acceptable, then another amendment is still to be considered, which was included in the system by a colleague Feranec, who limits the impact on multilateral interfaces so that it does not concern the sale of goods. On the other hand, I do not know if this is the optimal solution at the moment, but I think it is still a better solution than having a 5% rate, the highest rate in the European Union. So it is certainly still to consider that it would not concern sales of goods in the sense of, for example, the same as e-shops and others that are also earmarked, but it would only concern sales of services. Thank you for your attention and I will sign up for the amendments in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u7	Thank you. Now, as I said, Mr Skopeček in the general debate, then Mr Onderka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u8	Thank you very much. I have also prepared two amendments. One amendment has the incentive to set the digital tax rate at 2 per cent. As has been said repeatedly here, 7% of the tax as a government proposal is record-high in comparison with our neighbouring countries or in international comparison. Another amendment is to shift the law's effectiveness to 1. 1. 2022, in view of the fact that negotiations are taking place at OECD level, which are to be directed towards a compromise proposal which, in my view, will be a better option than our national regulation. We were flattered that our bill would not create any contradictions, but the members of the Committee on Budgets know that the Ambassador of the United States sent a letter to the Czech Republic, where it threatens the Czech Republic in so far as we unilaterally impose such a high tax on technology companies from the United States. France has the same experience, which, when it came up with it, even received a letter from the United States with a customs tariff on a number of French products. I would not like to jeopardize the interests of Czech exporters in the markets of the United States because of the digital tax and any collection from it, so I prefer that we arrive at this tax through the international agreement. What is worth mentioning is that if this rate were actually voted out as high as the government suggests and it would pay, so I am convinced that it would also adversely affect consumers, those who use the services of technology companies, because, as we well know, the tax burden is always trying to transfer the entity on which it is imposed to their customer. This would also be the case in these specific services, which are often monopolistic in nature. So I'd warn you about the 7% rate, even for this economic reason. One final point. Note that we are discussing a digital tax that the Ministry of Finance is already counting on in the revenue of the state budget, even though we are only at second reading. This is also a specific approach from the Ministry of Finance. But thank you. I will sign up for the two amendments that I have tabled in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u9	Thank you. And now, Mr Onderka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I'm going to start with a little line for my colleague Skopeček. With all due respect, you're right that the ambassador actually sent a letter. I'm just gonna fix you up a little bit - the former Ambassador of the United States of America, so we're clear on that. As to how the budget of the Czech Republic is counting on revenues, that is, on the revenue side of the digital tax, I communicated with the Minister of Finance, who told me that this is no longer the case, which is logical, because we started discussing the material some other time and with the intention to negotiate it in a completely different year, that is, last year, with the fact that it was already valid January of this year. I shall only read the budget committee resolution No 405 of 10 June 2020, where the Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's draft Digital Services Tax Act be approved without comment, that is to say, the House Press 658, and empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution, which I have done. We're talking about a government proposal with 7% of taxes. Of course, in the Committee on Budgets, we saw the situation across the political spectrum that 7% of the tax would really be the highest in Europe. We felt that we wanted this bill to go through with as many votes as possible, and so we tried to reach an agreement. We therefore decided to submit an amendment to my person's Members - Roman Onderka, a colleague of Miloslava Vostrá and a colleague of Jan Volný to the Government Bill on Digital Services, which contains two things, that is, two changes compared to the original government proposal. First, in Section 33, Section 39, Section 45, the number 7 is replaced by the number 5, which means that we are reducing this tax to 5%, and then we adjusted the effective date on 1 January 2021. I would like to point out here that we have left this amendment in the system with the fact that I have already pointed out in advance that, at the third reading, if this amendment is adopted, I will propose a legislative technical amendment within the period of application of the Act from 1 January 2022. This amendment is in the system under the number 5627 and, of course, in the debate, I will still apply to it in order to give it all the necessary information. I would also like to point out to my colleague, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, that I propose, in the course of discussing this material, a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion between second and third reading to 10 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u11	Thank you. I would like to point out that this proposal under the Rules of Procedure must be heard in a detailed debate. If no one else is speaking for the general debate at this point, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words after the general debate? I don't see that kind of interest. I open the debate in detail, where Mr Potter is the first Mr Hrnčíř, then Mr Martínek, then Mr Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, before I make my amendment, I would like to say that it is really unacceptable that multinational Internet giants that make billions of profits here each year in the Czech Republic pay virtually no tax or tax at the level of one or a little more than 1%, unlike Czech companies that pay taxes properly here. It is indeed unfair competition, it is unfair and, of course, money is also missing in the state budget. [[17.40 hours]] However, the government's proposed 7% tax would indeed be too high for the surrounding countries, which is why I would like to sign up to my amendment under number 4109, which reduces the tax to 5%. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u13	Thank you. I will introduce the House to Vice-President Filip, who apologizes for work reasons. And now, Mr Martínek, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u14	Hello. As I said in the general debate, I subscribe to an amendment that would reduce the rate to 3%, under the House number of document 5545. Furthermore, I am signing up for a more compromise proposal between the government proposal and my original proposal in the sense that we will still meet the fact that we will not have the highest rate in the European Union, or no one will have a higher rate than we have. We will not have the highest rate in the European Union, and I think that is the main thing that is not to stand out. So this is a proposal, House document 5817, where it would be 5 per cent for digital advertising, 3 per cent for the use of multilateral digital dispersal and 3 per cent for the sale of data. Finally, I am still signing up for Mr Feranc's amendment under House document 6204, which I do not know yet if the right solution is the right one, I will certainly discuss it. A better solution would probably be to change the rate, but it is one of the alternative solutions not to endanger Czech companies that use distribution services export goods abroad and which remove the supply of goods that is not purely digital service, actually from the object of this tax, and it is 6204. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr. Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u16	Thank you very much. As I said in the general debate, I am referring to the amendment under number 6272, that is the 2% digital tax rate. I also apply to the amendment in the system under number 6308, which is a shift in efficiency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u17	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I announced in the general debate, I subscribe to two amendments 8415 and 5061, which were inserted into the system by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u19	Thank you. And now, Mr. Onderka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to the amendment, which is in the system under the number 5627, by Members of Roman Onderka, Jan Volný and Miloslava Vostrá to the House of Press 658, and I also propose a reduction of the deadline for discussion between second and third reading to 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-006-006.u21	I understand for 10 days, excellent. I'm asking if there's anyone else in the debate? Mr Martínek performed. If that's all I'm saying, I'm going to end up having a detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? I don't see anyone. There is therefore a proposal to vote to shorten the time limit. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. [[Gong.]] We will vote to shorten the deadline for the third reading to 10 days for those who are coming, and I see that there are still more coming, so I will do it again. Once again, repetition is the mother of wisdom. We will vote to shorten the deadline for third reading to 10 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 7, we are registered at this time 145, for 90, against 9. The proposal for shortening was accepted. I end second reading of this proposal and thank you. I'm opening another point and it's a point.
