ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u1	6. The draft law amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Living Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /German press 799/5/ - returned to the Senate Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can discuss the next proposal. Thank you. The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 799/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to us in the mail. I welcome the President of the Senate, Miloš Vystnut, and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček comment on the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again I ask for peace so that we can discuss this proposal in a dignified environment. Please, Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the rebuttal of the proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act, which clearly strengthens consumer protection and introduces principles in the fight against energy companies. This is an important law that has been discussed for a long time, both in the preparatory phase and in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. A number of measures are being implemented, providing energy mediation as an entrepreneurial activity that can only be carried out on the basis of an ERO authorisation, the Energy Regulatory Authority - a revolutionary matter to a large extent. In order to obtain this authorisation, in the quotes of the business license, it will be necessary to comply with the legal conditions. The ERU will be able to withdraw, where justified, that the intermediary will carry out activities contrary to the law. [[ho]] However, a number of other measures are being introduced which further strengthen consumer protection in the field of energy contracts, their termination, consumer information and so on. In addition, the amendment also addresses the European Commission's infringement, namely the issue of gas solidarity. I have to say that there has been a really big discussion with experts from the Ministry of Industry, all interest groups, and this has led, among other things, to the amendment of the President of the Senate, Vystrčil, who proposed amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. As I've noticed, in the last few days, it has once again aroused certain emotions. I must say that the MIT takes the view that the draft amendment approved by the House addresses the problems associated with the energy industry. On the other hand, I must say that the proposals that were finally agreed in the Senate are proposals that are not bad. It's always possible to find more pluses and minuses. However, I am of the opinion that we should keep our word, and I, in the House, gave my word that, as has been said after further and further adjustments, I will support it from my point of view. So I'll keep that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u3	Thank you and I will now ask that the President of the Senate, Miloš Vystrčil, take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u4	Mr President, Minister, Dear Government, honourable Members, to the press before you today, which is a proposal for the adoption of amendments to the Energy Act adopted by the Senate, I will deliver three things. The first is that there was a rather intense discussion between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Senators who dealt with the press, which was, in addition to me, particularly Raduan Nwelati, Hana Žáková and Jiří Vosecký, and we agreed that the amendments adopted by the Senate were acceptable to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The second thing is that we have sent all of you to your mailboxes to justify the amendments, and I believe that you have looked at it, because that justification also contained specific examples of the practices that our amendments prevent, and I will talk about it. The third thing I want to say is to briefly describe the content of the amendments and their main meaning. There are basically three reasons that led us to accept the amendments. The first is that if we decide to regulate some business, we can't do it by applying some regulation and partially not applying it, because it's the worst thing that can happen for any business. This is what we have tried to remove by equalizing the business of companies or companies that establish directly suppliers with other energy intermediaries, and we have further clarified what one-off negotiations are - that if I act in one-off terms, this is not a mediation activity only if I do it outside my business area. This is the first package of amendments, the first thing we fixed there, and they agreed with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. [[17.10 hours]] The second thing that is most discussed is that we have set an obligation for the energy supplier to have to notify the customer that he is changing his price. There was no and there is no way that the only way I can announce a price change is by the website. The moment it's just a website, it happens - and there are examples - that some companies, some suppliers, negotiate a price, then publish a change on the website, then the price goes up, and those people don't have a chance to know. This means that there has been an additional proven and addressed announcement - and here I point out in advance, please, that is far from the only option - by registered letter. There are plenty of other options as you can prove and addressly announce a price change. For example, it is an electronic option, for example a recorded telephone call and other options, it is a possibility of cooperation with banks and so on and so on. That means, that's the other thing, the device for the client, the customer, to have information that his price is changing. By the way, I believe that this is a very market-based measure, because when some seniors show that they've lost information about the price change, and their children or grandchildren will see it, I think some companies will be very surprised to see how some customers start leaving them. The third thing that happened there is that contracts have been simplified in the case of small energy users who lose the right to use the property, while at the same time simplifying the statements of contracts with energy intermediaries. It was also stipulated that the energy supplier had to notify the consumer at the request, the customer when the contract was terminated, because so far it was so that business entities such as businessmen, or municipalities, did not have to notify suppliers of the deadline for the end of the contract because the contract did not normally end on the closing date and subsequently on the expiry of two years, but it was necessary to find out when energy began to be supplied. Again, if anyone is interested, I have here concrete examples of how large supply companies do not want to tell these small businessmen or municipalities when their energy supply ends. The reason is simple. Then the person or subject gets into a situation that either he's an unauthorized energy recipient or he ends the contract early when he's still getting paid. So these things are handled by our amendments, and I very much ask that you support the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before the debate, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Nacher, who is, however, enrolled in the debate, may yet be able to speak up in the debate. So I am opening the debate at the moment, and Mr Patrik Nacher has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u6	Mr President, President of the Senate, fellow Members, I would also like to say a few words about this. First of all, I'm glad we're gonna make it, 'cause, as you know, the fight with these energy guys is here for a year and a half, and you know I put him on the program about seven times. Today is basically the last chance to approve this before the end of this parliamentary term, otherwise it would have to start again. There is a need to recall some things where part of the law will apply from 1 January 2022. These are the obligations of the intermediary, the different possibilities of termination of the contract with the supplier, the period limited to 36 months, the period of a certain, limited period of 12 months in power at any time with the possibility to terminate - and beware, even backwards. These were the amendments that were read here. As well as the amendment, so that municipalities can ban door-to-door sales on their territory. Then there is an important part of the law that will have effect from 1 July 2022, i.e. with a certain delay. This concerns, in particular, the obligations of the ERU - Energy Regulatory Office - which will newly register those intermediaries. They have to do some responsibilities. But most importantly, it is important to tell people that the running of clients between the ERO and the ČOI will finally stop, because one case is solved by the ERO, which means some energy supplier, but the moment it is part of the auction, it is already under the Czech Trade Inspection. In the Senate, the situation for me was like a roller coaster. First, on 18 August, Miloš Vystrčil, President of the Senate, made oral proposals, some 11 amendments. We had a bit of an argument there. I didn't get a chance to perform in the Senate, so I can say it now. I was glad that within the framework of political culture then week after that MiloMiloš He put some words in relation to my work here in the Chamber of Deputies and certain inaccuracies in terms of the pro-consumer focus of the law, he took back. I'm glad. So did the August 25 bill of change. I took notes from the 11 proposals. Actually, there were two left in the original version. Three to five have changed a little, and there are five amendments, or the Senate has not approved them at all, or proposed them. So, as far as this is concerned, the original proposal from August 18 that I was a little worried about, I would clearly support the House version. In this case, consistently from the moment of the 25th I say, I feel closer to the House version, but even if the Senate passes, I will not have a problem with that. However, I would stop at the two amendments that Miloš Vystnut said, and then I would have a question at the end of the question for my colleagues from ODS to know about it. In one section of Section 11a it is said that an increase in the price for electricity supply is needed to inform consumers, in the original version it is that in the way stated in the contract for electricity supply, which I consider to be the best, the most flexible. The Senate adds the word "purely and addressably," which is a better version than it was originally written a week earlier. However, I have been approached by a number of consumers with concern that these people might not have to go to the post office right now. I know Mr. Miloš Vystujel here talked about it. But from the feedback, from the industry, it turns out that at that point, they're ready to send the letters recommended, and, of course, they're going to transfer the costs to clients. That means, I don't really understand why the way in the contract, where the burden of proof turns to energy suppliers to prove that he actually informs consumers, so why it has to spread. But my main question is to expand in several paragraphs from the word "consumer" to "customer." The consumer is a natural person. We know that this place is intersected by various laws that I call consumers, and the customer is actually all of them. That also means legal persons, in this case the community and so on. And now, in Section 11e, in the situation "if the consumer ceases to have ownership or exploitation rights', the consumer is replaced by a customer, albeit limited by the level of low voltage and gas consumption up to 630 MWh. And the same for Section 30 of the Communication "unforgedly at the consumer's request, the duration of the commitment" - that is what we added. So instead of "consumer" it changes "at the customer's request." Well, here, let me ask you a question in terms of consistency. You know, for example, in the Electronic Communications Act, at some point I extended consumer protection to customers and small businesses. I received questions from my colleagues at ODS if the consumer protection is not too wide, that there is a need to perceive some proportionality test, that otherwise the consumer, the natural person and the businessman are protected. [[17.20 hours]] The same with the Consumer Credit Act, which when we discussed, though not here on the microphone, so from some of the ODS colleagues, and I must say, consistently and constantly, I have heard that it must not go too far, the market must work in some way and of course otherwise protect Mrs Nováková as a consumer and otherwise protect a businessman who has a legal department or a community or something like that. So at that point, I'd be interested to get my bearings, and here's the word "consumer" in this, just like the ODS colleagues did, and I saw President Zbyněk Stanjura volunteering, so they're looking at the ODS Senator's amendment, which, on the other hand, extends it from it to consumers. I just want to see some consistency in this. So I don't get scolded here in the House that I'm too consumer-friendly to expand it, and I didn't get scolded in the Senate that it's too narrow and that it needs to be extended to all customers. Because, as I said, only a natural person is legally considered a consumer. So that's a little point. I don't want to take this conflictingly, I'll be happy to see whatever version goes through today that we're done with this. I would like to end this performance and at the same time thank Miloš Vystrčil for his words from the 25th time he took some words back to me, and I didn't have the opportunity to do the same in public. I have a home platform here, and he's a guest, so I do this in the context of political culture and its improvement, and I thank him for that, however we may have a different opinion on some things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u7	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík is signed up with a factual remark, and then the President Vystrčil will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u8	Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I will in any case support the words of the President of the Senate that energy companies should give advance notice of when the treaty ends. Unfortunately, I have a contract, and every year the energy company raises its price. I've got a flat-rate set somewhere, five grand a month, and I thought, "You're gonna pay seven, you've got an underpayment, and so on." Now I'm gonna take a little turn. All of us here in Europe want us to have clean heating to avoid carbon dioxide and improve the atmosphere. But the only clean source for heating is electrical energy and we're increasing it in an unimaginable way. What can I say? Do we want purity or are we squeezing money?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u9	Thank you, and Mr Petr Dolínek has also made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u10	Thank you. Good afternoon, I had a similar performance as my colleague Nacher, which is why I'm just going to join in fact, because it was said that there would be a reaction, so let it be in one package. I was also impressed with the senate cocktails around the hearing, because there was enough time after all. The amendment was discussed not only in plenary, but on a number of professional seminars and on open platforms and the space was there. And then it actually happened a little humpoly, in a way that probably doesn't really belong to consumer protection. And then something came out of it, Mr President of the Senate, through Mr President, I would very much like to support in two thirds, but then there is that third that simply does not allow me to vote with a calm heart for the Senate version, because it was just happening with some big scoop that left some things there that are not entirely clear. Of course, we can argue about whether it means that two million people have to go to the post office or not to pick up a letter with some kind of announcement, or we can say that it wouldn't be that way. But, from the point of view of legal certainty, it matters how it would be handled. Of course, we can talk about data boxes and stuff. But the standard is written that there's no clear explanation that would clearly tell what it means to a client, and the client has a lot of duties. It has obligations not only in the field of energy, but also in energy shipments, but also in other areas. And I don't think it's appropriate to make it harder. That's why I feel like it's not ideal, it's not good, and I feel a little bit political about it. It seemed to me, and not that I needed to stand up for my colleague from YES, but it seemed to me that it was like this: Let's try to take someone else's topic and put something else in it that we can do it, too. And it seems to me a little bit that this has failed, and I will therefore ask my colleagues to support the House version, which is prepared in good quality and after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u11	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u12	For Mr Dolínek, by your means, Mr Vice-President: In my opinion, I'm judging you. It just wasn't like that. Don't insult the President of the Senate and my colleagues. We are not obsessed with taking any credit from you or Mr Nacher. Stick to the subject and please forgive the personal attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u13	Thank you. Now, the President of the Senate, Miloš, has Vystrčil out in the general debate. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, first I must strongly oppose what he has said here, through what you have said here, Mr Dolínk. I want to ask if you've read the 20 pages I sent you. [[The speaker shows the file.]] And if so, I don't understand what you're saying. And now for the specific things. Please, it's a rhetorical question, don't scream right away. Which one of you reads the general terms and conditions? Which one of you reads them? And the fact that supply companies are going to announce a change on the Internet has some of them, and I can name them in their general business conditions. The material I have heard Mr Dolínek read is a copy of a part of the general terms and conditions of two companies. One of them is called Centropol and has 500,000 sampling points. [[The speaker shows the plenary paperwork.]] The second is Bohemia Energy, it has 1 million sampling points. All who have a contract with them have in general business terms written that they will learn the price change by posting on the Internet, on the website. And I could name another one. This means that these are millions of clients in this republic who today have contracts, so-called adhesion, where it is written in general business conditions, and they have written there, and you know very well how difficult it is to change the adhesion contract and its general business conditions that they will receive information about the price change in a way that it will be published on the website. And now for the next one. Now please believe that everyone, not just businessmen, small businessmen who have calluses on their hands, to the computer every now and then when they don't have to, they don't go and so on, and everyone else. And someone here says if we keep it that way, it's non-markety. On the contrary. If someone regularly gets price changes, that's a hell of a market measure. I don't know if you know what the so-called indicator price is, and if you know that, in the case of gas, the indicative gas prices are regularly published by the Energy Regulatory Authority. I don't know if you know that the companies that sell gas today normally exceed the indicative price by 100 to 200 crowns and sell for that. And no one's talking about it, because the contracts are automatically prolonged and the price changes are not reported. That's what it looks like today. In other words, the guy who, for one, is a plumber, a waterman, a sheep or something, doesn't stand a chance at all and rides on a train where someone keeps raising his price. He doesn't even know it, and he's always paying for those sweaty invoices, or the accountant's paying for them, and the letter that he's got a changed price doesn't even come to him. [[17.30 hours]] And if you think everyone in this state sits on their ass and just looks at the Internet and watch every night or every 20 days, if their supplier didn't change their price, that's really not it. There are a lot of people here, and it's a lot of businessmen and a lot of people in small villages, mayors who just work at night and don't sit on any ass. So that's the first thing. Adhesive contract, general terms and conditions, and how we regulate it. We don't regulate it. This is not regulation, it is legitimate information to the customer and it strengthens the market, improves the functioning of the market, and at a time when it is not transparent, the dishonest earns money. Unhonorable. We call them energy bastards here. Now, about the other paragraphs. Section 11e. Again, please, businessmen, listen to what might be nice somewhere. I'll find it for you right away that would like it to be incredibly piercing. [[He's browsing his papers.]] This means that here it is written in this § and up to 11e that it is necessary that the right to terminate the contract with the supplier has not only a natural person, not only a man Mr Novák, Mrs Nováková and so on. [[11a to what?]] When I lose the right to use the property, it means I have to leave the workshop, I don't have the money, I have to stop using some space, I don't need it as a warehouse anymore, and if I have to take less than 630 MWh a year, when I have to take a smaller one, then at the moment when I'm done with the business - these are small businessmen, farmers, blacksmiths, plumbers, carpenters and so on - so at the moment when I'm done with the business for some reason, I have the right to stop taking it. I have a right, and that's the extension. That's from the consumer to the customer. And the customer - and Mr. Patrik Nacher, I don't know why he didn't do it - must have the property that its consumption is up to 630 MWh per year. That means it's not big customers who could distract the market, and so on. This means clearly market measures. Allows you to quickly change the rent of the building to a businessman. I got a better one, I quit, I got a new one, I don't pay electricity, I make a new deal. It allows the village: I end one tenant with an apartment, I declare a contract, I put in a new tenant, I conclude a contract. For God's sake, you must know that from small towns. There's one mayor, there's no office. One employee. And you're saying it's not right if he can't terminate immediately. That's piercing. The apartment market is moving faster, rents are changing faster, rented spaces are changing faster, the possibility of changing the workshop is changing faster. It's the other way around. Definitely a plethora so that the entrepreneurs can change faster. This concerns 3 million tradesmen who were not involved before the amendment. It didn't! And I can tell you again the stories of people who went to another lease, to another workshop, and they paid for another month or two because they couldn't shut down. We couldn't, we couldn't, the supplier didn't react. Why would a contractor? So that's the lack of market share of Section 11e. [[He's very emotional.]] And now that § 30 - that's even better, even better, really. So define the date of the contract. It's the same thing again. For God's sake, that businessman has the right to know when his contract ends! Today I have letters from suppliers who trade... I have a letter from the mayor: dear Madam Mayor, thank you for asking when your contract ends in the case of the apartment building where you and the apartments are rented. We answer that according to this and this you are not a consumer as a community, and we will not tell you. And if you want, ask for it again and that and that. And there's a huge... And the mayor, who is from a small village, writes and writes and writes. And the supplier responds and answers and answers. And in the meantime, she's paying and paying and paying. So this is a non-market third measure in quotation marks, when it will finally be so that normally the supplier has to tell that... not only the physical person, Mrs Nováková, Mr Novák and so on, but also the businessman and the small community, so he has to tell her when the contract ends when he asks. And that's why we spread it from the consumer to the customers. And it's like I said. And I don't know what's weird about that. I don't understand what's non-markety about it. So these are just the three questions and my three answers to Mr Nacher. As for what Mr Dolínek says, Mr Dolínek: through Mr President, Mr Dolínek, please see when we got the press to the Senate, see when the amendments were adopted. I know they were loaded earlier. But it's not like that. The Chamber of Deputies, like the Senate, are not the center of the universe. They're not! We deal with this stuff when it comes to the Senate. And the moment it came to the Senate, we said we didn't like these things. I explained why we don't like it. I hope that this is understandable, why we do not like that the adhesion contracts are general conditions, why we do not like that the trader cannot terminate the contract. [[unintelligible]] And we said, okay. But there are some problems that the Ministry of Industry and Trade sees. At the Minister's request, and I thank him for that, we talked about it and it turned out that two of our conclusions remained, five changed a little bit, for some of you: two and five is seven, that seven actually remained, two of which remained and five have changed a little bit, and two are different. So that's two and five is seven and two is nine. So we succeeded with seven out of nine, which is something that is actually more than 70 percent. So if that's a bad result, I don't think so. But I don't think that's the subject of today's meeting. But the counter I had to say here, too, to relieve myself a little bit. And that's it. And other than that, "addressed and proven," one more time. So do we want to communicate electronically, or do we not want to? Do we want people not to get in trouble and have to go to the post office or not? Is a simple letter enough? Do you receive the bill by registered letter? You get the electricity bill by registered letter? You're not getting it! You get it by a normal letter. And in the case of contracts for an indefinite period, nothing prevents you from getting information about the price change at the same time as the bill. Do you know anything about an electronic identity? Can't a big contractor work with banks? Everyone has an account! Isn't there a way to do that in the account management, too? I'm not saying it's meant to be. But just saying that I'm going to cost electricity, because I'm going to have to write the recommended letters, that's really incredible! When I look at the profits, when I look at every megawatt hour, there's a hundred crown difference from the indicative price, and I see that the recommended letter is destroying the entire energy market, I really don't know where I am. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a factual remark, Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u16	Thank you. I'm gonna try to calm the situation down and tell the senator that he's putting something in my mouth that he's defending here. I'm pretty precise about this, so I didn't say any of those things at all. 630 MWh - that's what I said. Look at the log, not that I'm hiding it. That I said it was non-markety? Well, I didn't say that either. I said the very basic thing, and I insist, and the question is here in the air. Because what you were talking about, Mr President, is what I often present here in other laws, which means extending the consumer protection circuit to all consumers. And they are often Members of the ODS, who, and I must admit, consistently, criticise that this is too much protection. And so I need to get to the bottom of this, how is it possible that then the same protection that I often propose here, and I get criticized for it, or the YES movement in other laws, we're talking about real estate brokers here, about guides, and it's always been that we burn it over. And my question is legitimate, why then the ODS representative from the Senate will return it to us in this form, for which we here in the House otherwise get that it is being reregulated! So I didn't say it was non-markety. [[17.40 hours]] As for the general terms and conditions: yes, people don't read it. People don't read it, and I've been pointing it out here for ten years, I've written it in my book, I've got an analysis of all the general business conditions, how small they are, how long they are, and so on. That's right, that's all true. But that doesn't have anything to do with--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u17	Sorry, time's up, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. And now in the general debate, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President of the Senate, my contribution should have been factual to the point, but your disgusted speech that you gave here at this microphone charged me, as it is said, words to not forget to point out that you are a prominent right-wing politician, a free-market politician, a politician where competition is supposed to solve all the problems, and you are for the greatest diversity and possibility of entrepreneurship, but in all your speech you have spoken what businessmen, those suppliers are scumbags, what they are - pardonably, I have already thought of a bad word - what they are, what they are all waiting for, how they are cutting down all, how they write intentionally and deliberately in tiny letters, how they deliberately do not give people the opportunity to find the right prices, how they over-expensive, how they invent. And you're right, and I thank you for the words made by the President of the Senate from the right-wing political party. Yes, you're right, they're scumbags, but you've allowed those bastards to be created, colleague, you. You guys, when you were preparing a law that allowed all those scumbags to enter the market, you trusted to approach them, and you argued how great it would be for the citizens, they would be able to choose, suppliers would rush ahead of them to allow them all the opportunities to use, how prices would go down and how those services would go up. And today, we're in the state that we're in, and we see that it's just not like that, right, even with the distributors, there are people who just want to rub off on the customers. They don't have to be everywhere and everyone, but they're there, and they're looking for any opportunities to earn and some moral principles of business that a decent person should have, they're often far away, they're using different loopholes and offers to get those contracts, they're cheating those poor people and they're doing it on purpose just to make a profit. And that's what we should be dealing with here, that is, the moral efforts of business and the efforts to cultivate the market and the environment, but not first to release everything, and then to regulate it, to intervene hard, and to defend it, and to say here what it should be like when you made it possible for yourself. And now I'm going to go back to what I was going to say and why the KSČM Club can't take the Senate form of this bill. It may be a small thing, you may be surprised, but the small thing comes from the fact that the whole law was built on consumer protection. The creator of this proposal has undergone a severe martyria of preparation, let's say, often abused, because it has become a carrier of various other things. I've been blaming this microphone many times that it shouldn't be done, because he has a problem that he has to deal with the changes. But so be it, we have a result ahead of us. But once again, the original proposal was for consumer protection. I don't know if, colleagues, you know the difference between a consumer and a customer. This can only be like playing with words. But it's a pretty big difference in access to the law. The consumer has higher legal protection than the customer. The consumer has Act No. 634/1992 Coll., which requires a different relationship with the consumer. The consumer is to demand the honesty of selling products and providing services, the use of a telephone number with a higher than normal service, may oppose, may object to unfair commercial practices like the consumer, misleading acts, misleading omissions may even oppose, aggressive business practices may defend themselves against them, may point to bad claims. All of this has the right to be done by a consumer. But not the customer anymore, because the customer is supposed to have legal knowledge within the relationship, and the only thing that can be modified is that he's in a smaller position than the big one, but that's also debatable. So let's say that the consumer is the common person who requires higher protection, the customer is, let's say, equal in the relationship that arises. And you have done one thing that is incomprehensible to me, but after your speech, I already know why you did it when you are in your proposal in Art. I. 18 § 11e replaced the word "consumers" by the word "customer extracting electricity from low voltage levels or with an annual gas consumption of up to 630 MWh." Maybe it's a small matter, but you opened the door so that in case of litigation, the consumer would pull the shorter end and not belong to the protection. If you had made a change that they had given the "consumer, customer" that sentence, I would have understood it - on one side the consumer, has higher protection, all right, on the other side the customer. I can understand that. But replacing a consumer's word with a customer means cutting all consumers off from the higher protection of the law that the consumer's law gives. And we, in principle, cannot agree to that as a KSČM. Because the consumer is the vast majority of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and they deserve greater protection against those bastards, as you have beautifully named with all those negatives. [[is]] And that's why we're going to lean towards a version that's from the Chamber of Deputies that doesn't allow this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u19	Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. President Zbyněk Stanjura will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u20	First of all, about the apology. I think the Prime Minister's been here almost 10 minutes, quite a performance on him, more than usual. I think I'll start by responding to Mr Luzar. She's not just semantics, she's math. He put it like the consumer wasn't a customer. But consumers are a subset of customers. Yes, it is strange for communists and suspicious that we should also protect small businessmen. I understand that, that's their ideology, I respect that, I don't agree. I think the President of the Senate has made it clear in both of his performances that it does not concern all customers, that it is limited by the annual consumption, if I am not mistaken, 630 MWh. So let's not get scared. The fact that all prizes increase after four years of government YES, CSSD, communists, well, that's true. But the Communists have been supporting the government all along, and now they're wondering if they'd like to lie about it and say they've been in opposition for four years. Regarding what my honored colleague Patrik Nacher said: I feel that Miloš Vystil explained. If not, it's probably for a more detailed debate. I just don't see the contradiction - someone can see it, I don't question it. I am actually enjoying the debate with Patrik Nacher, the pity that his influence within the ANO movement is so small, I think we could adopt many better laws or much faster when I remember how often he bravely voted against the overwhelming majority of his colleagues. I hope it won't be perceived as something negative, that I'll compliment one particular government member here - I didn't want to hurt him inside the YES movement, he's not a member, so they can't rule him out, so it's fine. Even Mr Nacher, who has dealt with this issue for a long time, and I know that this is actually his first political issue, says that when he passes the Senate version, it is nothing dramatic. I would have guessed it wasn't 100-0 that it wasn't a good match - bad, black - white. [[17.50 hours]] I want to appreciate the deal. The Senate and the Ministry, because it's not quite the usual either. Let us say that the Senate has most opposition from the House, the government logically has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and very often and logically we cannot agree, because we have a different view of how we are to deal with these things. The proposals recommended by the Senate that we support do not change the meaning of the law. And I don't get, for Mr. President Vystrčil, billing or ordinary mail. I am by far not the only one who has arranged electronic communication with the energy supplier, and I assume that there is no problem to everyone like me to send an email that there is a price increase then and then. What really upsets me is that someone doesn't tell you when the contract ends. That's clearly an evil will, that's no question. You can't argue with that, the Senate version solves that, and that's a good thing. After all, each one of us should know when the contract is over, and he'll make his own decision. In the long run, I claim that the best protection against dishonest dealers, energy scumbags and other scumbags is a family to help those most vulnerable, who are often the first to succumb to pressure and unfair business practices, help the family to focus on it, compare it, find information. That works best. Sometimes it's impossible, sometimes it's impossible, I understand, and then we try to find some sections. And now I'm going to say a sentence that isn't entirely popular: no law will protect a citizen from signing a stupid contract, disadvantageous to him. We just don't write a law like that. And who wants to edit it further and further, has a futile effort. It's just not gonna work. So in the first place, the family to consult or review the contractual relationship, they said, "Yes, sign, no, don't sign, it's convenient, it's not convenient." I think that the threat of increasing energy, or of having to send recommended letters, does not have to be sent. It may be necessary in some cases, but it will be a total minority. I really think that if the family intervenes again, it can act electronically for the elderly and inform their seniors whether they are going to raise the price or not, how high, whether it is advantageous or not. So let's not put it this way 100-0. I think the Senate version is a little better, which is why we're going to support it. But we voted if I'm not mistaken, even for the House version. I think there was a fairly broad consensus here, so it's not the classic dispute that if the Senate version doesn't pass, nothing will support it. Today, I think it will go well, and if we want it to turn out a little better, let us support the Senate version when we want it to turn out a little worse, for example, that I will not know the end of the contract, which I think is scandalous, we will adopt the House version. Even that's better than the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u21	Thank you. One apology - Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes today from 17:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Leo Luzar, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u22	Thank you for the floor. Through you to your colleague Stanjur. Semantics, mathematics - he's right, but he forgot logic, and the expression logic in this matter is clear. If the ODS is fighting for a customer, a small businessman and a small businessman, they are completely one consumer, or the vast majority of customers, because if the proposal that came from the Senate were "consumer, customer and others," I would understand it, but you replaced the consumer with a customer. And that's the problem. You removed those consumers from consumer protection and put the customer there. And that's the basic problem you've made in this. And then the lawsuits that arise here, if consumer protection still falls on it, or not, will be the biggest problem. That's why I'm saying we can't support it, and it's the Pandořin box you opened. And if you really meant well to those customers, you left the consumer there and you didn't cross him out. You'd give "consumer, customer" - you'd only expand it to make the protection group bigger. You deliberately cut it short and took the consumer out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u23	Mr Patrik Nacher, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u24	I'd like to respond to some things. One. Energy prices are going up not because we're making it up here, or those energy companies, but because continuously, as you can see, the price of oil, gas and other commodities and raw materials is rising all over the world. That's one thing. Second thing. Expiration time - complete consent. To keep the customer informed, there is no information inequality. The time of expiration is also in the House version to know when the treaty ends. And I'll say it from another perspective. We're hardly in dispute. It's just that I need to get my bearings. Consumer protection can, in simple terms, be left-wing or right-wing. To put it simply, left-wing says to complicate it with the provider, the supply side. Right-wing, what I've been defending here in the long run is to strengthen the weaker side. And we sometimes argue here in the House at a moment when this strengthening is accompanied by just some complication - strengthening the weaker side of the consumer, on the side of the suppliers. And let's argue, it's polite, it's all, with you, with Vojta Munzar, with Honza Skopeček and so on, and all I'm saying is my surprise, from this very direction, from the side of the ODS of the Senate, comes a changeling of this type. I'd expect him more from fellow Pirates, ČSSD, etc. And I keep calling -- I'm saying it's not 100-0, that's what I said -- consistency. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u25	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u26	I originally wanted to respond to Mr Luzar's speech. I give up because it's logic for five, math for five. Everything he said, none of it is true, completely absurd interpretation, complete misunderstand. Yeah, next time we write that it's gonna be once a week, we'll put it in parentheses on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, or Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and so on. That's bullshit. I'm sorry about the expression. Total bullshit, completely out of the question, waste of time, I'm not responding. For what Mr Nacher said, well, he's a little surprised, consistent - inconsistent. But I am quite enjoying it from the representative of the movement, which voted four times against the abolition of the property acquisition tax, in order to vote in favour. Read the speech of Secretary Schillerová, how she opposed four times. And you almost all of you, Mr Nacher, didn't, the rest of you changed your mind from one day to the next, you did the right thing, and you canceled the tax. You weren't consistent, but it's a good thing you changed your mind. With a tax reduction for employees, the same thing. It's been here for two years, a government report, a negative opinion, a lot of impact, everything wrong until you changed your mind, you weren't consistent, and you did well to change your mind and support our proposal. So I wouldn't talk much about the consistency. I think we are consistent, honoring our colleagues in the Senate. What emphasis does the Senate place on this? It is not usual for the Senate President to come here to defend the bill, and so convincingly and so competent. I'd like to see our House President do what he'd do in the Senate. Well, I'd rather not see it. So let's support the Senate version, and we can go to the next points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u27	Mr Stanislav Juránek will make a point of fact, then Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u28	I am willing, through the President, to respond to my colleague Luzar, and I want to tell him from the very clear logic and logic of the procedure that the word customer is wider than the word consumer, and that if you are convinced, even in legal texts where logic sometimes does not play a role, then, in fact, every consumer is also a customer. And I ask you to check this thing out, I've given myself, before I got off, not only the work to justify it logically, that is, in a set of ways, when it's clear, and the consumer is a subset of the concept of customer. [[18.00 hours]] And at the same time, I asked my lawyer if it had any legal impact, and that's why I took the liberty of saying that it has that meaning in law. And so I say, on the basis of what has been said, that yes, I also confirm that my opinion is that both solutions, both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, solve the problem that is, but for me as a consumer, because I am nothing but a consumer in that concept, and it is better for me as a consumer when we approve the Senate version. That was all I had for my colleague Luzar, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Leo Luzar will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u30	Thank you. By your means, to the honourable Mr Juránek - yes, the consumer is a subset of the customer. That's right. But also the consumer under Act No. 634/1992 has a higher level of protection than the customer. He does. He has a special law, which is why the subset of the customer, the consumer, is more protected than a regular customer. And in this law, the consumer is defined. The consumer is a natural person who does not act in the course of his business or in the sole pursuit of his profession. This is the definition of a consumer and it has higher legal protection than a customer as a subset. And what my colleagues in the Senate did was they cut off this higher consumer protection with that word and put a customer there, so they increased it, but they took away the higher consumer protection that this law gives. That's the basic problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u31	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u32	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Mr President of the Senate, Mr Luzar brought me here. After all, no one stopped being a consumer because it is included under a customer in the law presented here. Don't be mad at me, but that's a logic that can't be applied completely. If someone is a consumer under the Consumer Act, he remains a consumer regardless of what is written in the law we are discussing now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u33	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Profant apologizes from 18.15 to the end of the day for reasons of work. I don't have any more requests for debate, I don't even see anybody. The President of the Senate? [[The President of the Senate gestures.]] He will have the final word, so I can end the debate and come up with the final words. The President of the Senate now has the opportunity to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u34	Mr President, Minister, this debate has indeed been very informative for me, thank you. I wanted to ask, despite all the things that I have heard about myself here, what a sorcerer I am, whether or not Mr Luzar and others would actually consider the fact that, in general, if someone is a child, that it still remains a girl and that there is no problem, and that if a customer is written there, one of the customers is simply a consumer and some of them is not, because I really do not understand the argument and I am sorry if this argument would prevail for that reason and that law would then not get some votes completely unnecessary. Second thing. With regard to the remarks made by Mr Nacher here, I think that the notification obligation is a matter that is unrelated to regulation. I think that when you're in the store, there's always hazelnut and you see what goods cost, and I think it doesn't matter if you're a consumer or a businessman in that case, but I generally want to thank you for finally agreeing that it's possible to agree on a text that everyone is willing to accept. And that's it for me. I just want to ask again if you wouldn't consider that the debates about what the amendments would look like were being held with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, that we had agreed that we had all somehow retreated and I felt that we had retreated in favour of sometimes consumers and sometimes customers. And I would like that to happen here in the House of Deputies, and so we ask for the support of the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u35	Thank you. I'll ask Minister Havlíček if he's interested in the final word? He doesn't. [[Gong.]] We will therefore proceed to the vote under Section 97 (4) of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the Terms and Conditions of Business and on the Enforcement of State Administration in Energy Sectors and on the Amendment of Certain Acts, Energy Act, as amended, Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, trade law, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, pursuant to the House press 799/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House press 799/6.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 36, registered by 157 Members, for 141, versus 1. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you to the President of the Senate, thank you to the Vice-President of the Government, and I am done discussing this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u36	Thank you for the enlightened approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-005-006.u37	Thank you. Now, let's look at the point.
