ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and some other laws /German press 992/6/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 992/7. Information on the amendments has been distributed to us in the mail. I welcome Senator Alena Dernerová among us, and I ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a proposal for an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, which aims to contribute to improving the functioning of the public health insurance system, particularly in the area of reviewing the conditions for reimbursement of health services. Thanks to this amendment, the decision-making process of health insurance companies will be unified, the procedures in question will accelerate and the procedural status of insured persons will be improved. In addition, the proposal also regulates many other sub-areas, from which I can recall, for example, increasing the availability of highly innovative medicines and medicines for rare diseases or increasing the availability of medical devices. Other areas included in the proposal in the Chamber of Deputies include, in particular, the legislative definition of mental health centres, centres of highly specialised health care for patients with rare diseases, urgent income, screening centres or patient organisations. [[18.10 hours]] This proposal was returned to the Chamber of Deputies mainly because, according to the Senate, it was desirable to remove some of the problems that could arise in practice precisely as a result of the adoption of certain parliamentary amendments. At the same time, a accompanying resolution was adopted by the Senate, in which it asks the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this law in the interests of a wide range of patients during this parliamentary term. The amendments proposed by the Senate concern, for example, the extension of the reimbursement of vaccination against meningococcal infections or the regulation of mental health centres and transitional provisions relating to their introduction, with the effect that the provisions relating to these centres will be postponed until 1 January 2025. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled may in many respects contribute to improving the functioning of the public health insurance system for the benefit of insured persons. This is one of the biggest amendments to this law in recent years, and, as regards the amendments adopted by the Senate, they stick to this objective, which is why I support the adoption of the amendment tabled under the Ministry of Health, as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask that Senator Alena Dernerová take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, fellow Members, Minister, the Minister has made a comprehensive presentation of the draft law, along with our amendments, which were necessary for the law to be applicable to the general public, for example, precisely in relation to mental health centres, because, as you have done, this would perhaps mean their liquidation. That was one of the main reasons we tried to fix this. And then there's another x fixed thing. Overall, I have to say that the law is not very good and, in fact, there were also votes to reject in the Senate, because this law is already being amended so much that no one knows about it. However, what kept us in line was that we promised those who had rare diseases and who needed the necessary medicines to survive, they could get to these medicines more easily. That is why we supported this law, but there are a number of amendments that make a little bit more sense than the law has. Let us hope that in future time we can get to a simpler law, a clearer one. But now I would like you to approve the bill as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you. And I would like to thank those who voted on cannabis for the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u5	Thank you, Senator, and before I open the debate, I must ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Věra Adámková, if she wishes to speak before the debate is opened. It's not like that. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Olga Richterová is the first member of the debate. Before he comes, I'll introduce you to one more apology. Mr Václav Votava apologises from 18:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Senate for the repairs, because they were really very much needed. I also agree with the Senator that the law is still a highly compromise and still contains a number of very problematic things. We also realize that there's a small group of patients, patient organizations, waiting for approval. But you have to say, some things don't guarantee the law anyway. Before the vote, it's just supposed to be heard, so I'm going to describe the three points around here. The first thing is that the amendment is supposed to simplify, increase the transparency of the entry of orphan medicinal products. Of course, we have absolutely nothing against the entry of such products on the market, but what is important is that - precisely for the sake of patients - cost efficiency, the so-called cost benefit, is evaluated, because the fact that there is a new medicine does not necessarily mean that the drug is better. And it's our duty to make sure that people are actually getting more expensive new drugs, so better. And what this amendment anchors in the legal order of our Republic is so strange, we can say a privileged group of pharmaceutical companies that will hold a marketing authorisation for medicines intended for the treatment of rare diseases, which will not have to prove the fulfilment of cost-effectiveness in order to obtain a payment from public health insurance for these medicines, such medicines. So it is said that this amendment is intended to simplify the payment of medicines for rare diseases. But how does he do it? By simplifying certain, we have to say that a privileged group doesn't have to prove how effective it is, and that makes it easier to make a profit. So where's the promised banner? That's the first thing. And on this first point, of course, we support the availability of innovative treatment for patients with rare diseases, which is what we want, but we also want legislation to apply equally to everyone and for every drug to go through this process of assessing effectiveness fairly. Second, these are mental health centers. There, under the original proposal, there was a threat of liquidation. We've been here for the pirát and the starosta since the House meeting to fix it. Again, unfortunately, the House rejected the correction. Now the Senate returns a solution that allows us to buy time. At least the centers of mental health will buy time for their transformation, but it is forced to change, and again it is not certain that it will work well. Perhaps a turning point - what are mental health centers? The point here is that it is a community service on a social health border, it is always difficult to anchor in our country, so that they help to cope with life, manage life with mental illness in a normal environment for a person who stays at home, and the link between social and health care is often linked with the help of employment, with the help of the labour market. The multidisciplinary approach, as they say today, has great results and also greatly reduces the number of people in need of hospitalization. Why do I say that? That all possible experts from social workers through psychiatric nurses, psychiatrists, psychologists, but also peer consultants, or people with similar experience, are part of the team's mental health centers. And now it has been very difficult for us to anchor this interdisciplinary approach, but unfortunately, the proposed amendment will make it force the centers, now operating with a tuned ratio between social and health work, to force them to choose between one or the other. Unfortunately, this could disrupt the overall functioning of mental health centres in practice today. The amendment is actually pushing the centers to have only one founder, and it threatens to damage people with mental illness in the finals. Once again, according to today's IHIS data, it is clearly mapped out that the so-called CDs improve the quality of life for people with mental illness, help prevent hospitalization, and also help the whole families. That proposed improvement from the Senate gives time, but it's still not certain that the mental health centers can handle it, that's the second thing. Once again, it's a big question mark, but because at least it's time for the transition, at least this way, if I say it a little bit popular, we'll bite. And the third thing is that there are modifications in the novel that improve it, whether it's more technical, but always targeted at patients. Then there is an amendment allowing insurance companies to access the electronic database, but also an amendment that allows oncologically ill people to freeze eggs and sperm free of charge. Just something very supportive of younger people, people of reproductive age who have cancer. [[18.20 hours]] And these are the modifications that are at the heart of the patient's attention, they're focused on people. So I just wanted to ask within this third, last point of the comments on the amendment, that even in the future the Ministry and the government realize that this is the way to work, that the amendment is meant to be aimed really at people, but that, as a whole, it is an unused opportunity. It could also be possible to eliminate discrimination against midwifes as university-educated professionals in health insurance, which could have improved a number of other things, and unfortunately they are not there. However, despite all these risks, maybe I will personally vote in favour, because I know that a number of organizations and a number of patients are waiting for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u7	Thank you. Mr David Kasal will respond with a point of fact and President Vlastimil Válek is registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to comment on one thing that the previous speaker said - through you - cost efficiency. If you're presenting it that way that it's opaque, then you should say B, how would you like to make cost-effectiveness in rare diseases that are 5 per 10,000 people, that means that one child is born with this defect of 2,000 people, 2,000 newborns, and there are 8,000 of them, those rare diseases! So if you want to do it like that, you're not gonna be treating any rare diseases in your life. And that's why this committee was set up to set it exactly and give it precise conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u9	Thank you. President Vlastimil Válek with priority rights. I'm gonna read an apology. President Ivan Bartoš apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The pursuit of absolute perfection is a lifelong effort that regularly ends in failure, but I think the same applies to any law. Thus, TOP 09 will vote in favour of the law as he left the Senate, including the Senate's amendments. We believe that there are a number of points that are for the benefit of patients, and one thing needs to be remembered is how the law came into being. The law had been going on for a long time, and we could have had almost a year on the Health Committee to discuss it. The problem was that Deputy Vrubel, who was the chief author of the law or coordinator, as far as I can call it, was bypassing us, but then he and the Minister were dismissed. And then there were ministers and deputy ministers who had no idea what was in the law, so they couldn't even present it on the health committee. They didn't know what its contents were. That means if it wasn't for the health committee, the law couldn't have moved forward at the time. And I would also like to point out that I asked for a priority, a quick consultation on the Gremium, which I am sure the President of the ANO MEP, through the President, Mr Faltýnek will confirm, because I was aware of, and was aware of, all my fellow doctors from the Health Committee across the political spectrum, that the law is not perfect, but, as she said, through the President, Mrs Richterová, in many ways it helps patients and moves matters, and I will narrow it down to that Section 16 mile step. I remember from when I was president of the Academic Senate and then on the Scientific Council, how repeatedly colleagues from the centers - Professor Štěrba, Professor Majer and others, friends and other friends complained about how problematic the situation was when they had a patient who, in some difficult way, obtained the approval of an insurance company with treatment. The treatment is used often before the insurance company approves, then the insurance company refuses to pay for the hospital or it is paid for at a flat rate and these stories, which in many cases were extremely sad and extremely frustrating for anyone who does not only in health care, but especially for those patients, have been repeated. And I hope that these stories will drop significantly or even disappear. And of course, the law is a step on some road. There are certainly things that can be improved, there are certainly things that need to be clarified by the decrees, no doubt it depends on a number of cases regarding the commissions and so on, on the particular people sitting in them, and we could talk about a number of things that are in the law, but let us appreciate that today we have managed to pass perhaps more laws than we have been sitting here for four years. We have approved them in a non-conflict manner, and I firmly believe that this will be another of those laws, which will be approved by the Chamber of Deputies in the Senate text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u11	Thank you. I don't have another application for the debate... This is President Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Senator, fellow Members, I know that there are many good things in this law, but I wanted to ask you, because now everyone is dealing with a price increase, if it is part of the law, there is also an increase in ceramic crowns and bridges by 500 crowns. And then I wanted to ask you about some method of paying for all these things, why is it that the insurance company pays less money to the person who gets a better product, in this case, maybe the crown, that for the better ceramics there is essentially less subsidy, the insurance company's contribution, than for the less-quality alternative, like plastic, and if it can be dealt with in any way within the framework of the payment decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u13	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Neither the Minister nor the Senator is interested in the final words. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u14	The minister probably didn't hear me, so I'm gonna repeat the question to him because he probably forgot to answer it. So one more time. There's just a problem with everything getting more expensive - 4 percent, and it looks like part of the law is also increasing ceramic crowns and bridges by 500 crowns for that performance. I want to ask you from a systematic point of view, if the surcharges that are being designed today are that there is a supplement to the basic product and what is better is what is paying... The insurance contribution, I mean. Just what the insurance company pays for the basic product is higher than what pays for the better product, so it doesn't motivate people to take a better form of their health care in the case of, say, ceramic crowns when compared to plastic crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u15	Thank you. The Minister is claiming priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u16	It's not like that, I have to respond to it. After all, the law passed through the House, and basically nothing has changed in that direction or in the Senate. The whole concept of a change in dentistry aims at paying for better material in both orthodontics and, of course, in the area of compensation and the like, which will be available to patients. There's more money coming from public health insurance for dental material. The whole modification was created in cooperation with the dental chamber, the health insurance company. There was a clear consensus on it and, on the contrary, it will improve care for those who need dental care for health reasons, including orthodontics, better materials in this area, and so on where patients with health problems have to deal with dental care. So you are wrong, Mr President, on the contrary, the whole regulation is aimed at better dental care in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u17	Under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister's speech reopened the debate, which is why I have to ask if anyone is applying? Yes, Chairman Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u18	I thank the Minister for responding. I have no doubt that the law has a godly purpose and that it can really improve the scope of the care, but I am interested in the concept, Minister, you said I was wrong. So is it that the insurance company will contribute to better alternatives as well or more of what contributes to the less-quality alternatives? [[The Minister agrees to nod.]] Because our colleagues told me otherwise, so I'm only glad if that's the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u19	Anyone reporting for the debate? The senator is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u20	I've only had a short time. She's very expensive with dental care, and I don't think she's ever gonna be paid in full because she can't. And about the mental health centers. I'm just worried that one day we won't crash because there won't be staff, that there will be people missing who will work there, because psychiatry is heavily staffed undersized, there are no adictologists and so on. So we have to supplement the system, and then hopefully what we want to make the psychiatry work. But so far, we have an absolute shortage of psychiatrists, both children and adults. So we're gonna pray it all ends well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u21	Have a good evening and Mr David Kasal is making a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded to Prime Minister Michálek. Of course, as far as the prices are concerned, they're being arranged in some way. And what you're asking is that the same materials are always arranged at some level, and then they're different because there's more of those materials. It's not only ceramic, but it's resins and other materials. And based on the quality of the processing, it deals with the dental chamber and everything, and the prices are set like this. That's what the insurance companies pay for. But there's always a basic payment, and then the material is taken into account. So it's not what you said it was, and it's obviously more things that affect it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-006-005.u23	I'll look around the O.R. I'm sorry, I have a bit of a voice indisposition because I'm probably talking too much about the campaign, so I've changed my voice a little bit now, but it's me. So now, if no one else is going into the debate, I am ending the debate. I'm asking again for possible final words. They're not anymore. So we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In the meantime, I'm gonna get started. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I shall make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to the House press 992/6, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House press 992/7.' I will wait, because I see that the Members are running low, I will continue to engage. Well, I guess we're in enough quantity here. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 151 Members registered, for 134, against none. I note that we have adopted a bill in the version approved by the Senate. I therefore thank Senator Alena Dernerová and the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, and end the discussion of this press. We've got another press here.
