ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u1	9. Proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies On this point, you received a resolution from the Election Commission No 7 of 8 November 2021 and, at the same time, a resolution from the Election Commission No 11 of 10 November this year was subsequently distributed to you. I will ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to the next procedure for the election. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish you, my colleagues, a good afternoon and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an opening of the motion for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[13.10 hours]] I would first like to recapitulate the steps the committee has taken this week, Monday. We have forwarded all information to colleagues, members of the electoral committee and to you, the presidents of the parliamentary clubs and your secretaries. Nevertheless, I feel it is essential that a brief summary from me as President of the Election Commission should be heard. Therefore, on Monday, 8 November 2021, at our second meeting, we discussed the motion to elect the President, we discussed the proposals that were previously tabled within a period of no more than 17 hours, and adopted Resolution No 7. On Monday, the nominees were nominated for the President of the House, Mr Karel Havlíček, proposed by the ANO parliamentary club, and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, proposed by the SPOLU coalition. It is resolution No 7 of the Election Commission of 8 November 2021. I'll read it quickly for the tape screen: "The Election Commission instructs the President of the Election Commission Martin Kolovratník to introduce the House I. with proposals from the President of the Chamber of Deputies; [[Karel Havlíček for the YES movement, Markéta Pekarová Adamová for the SOLO coalition]] II. Having regard to the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, 32 Constitutions of the Czech Republic in connection with nomination or election of a member of the Government." As I just said in the resolution, we were here on Monday debating the problem of possible not conflict of interest, but the possible incompatibility of functions, the potential collision of nominations with Art. 32 constitutions. You know, the electoral commission has been doing this very carefully for a long time. I want to thank my colleagues, most of them are new, that the debate was not political, it was really factual, it was legal. On Monday evening, therefore, the electoral commission called for the opinion of the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, which is in relation to the choice of option. We received this position yesterday afternoon, and the electoral commission handed it back to all its members and especially to all the MPs. Therefore, you should have it at your disposal and I will not read it whole at the moment, but I quote from it what is important for the next steps of both the electoral committee and our negotiations, and this is the conclusion of the opinion, where the legislative department states that "the assumption that a Member, a member of the government, could be elected to the post of President of the House is the previous demise of government membership. This should be demonstrated at the latest when the Chamber of Deputies accedes to the election of the President of the House. If this is not the case, the Member may not be elected, i.e. his candidacy should not be allowed." This is a quote which, without any comment or evaluation, I merely mention as it was written in the opinion of the legislative department. Following the receipt of this material, the electoral commission met today, in the pause, when the mandate and immune committee met for the second time and we addressed the procedure. The debate, when I sum it up briefly and correctly, was also about what the mandate of the electoral committee is, if it is an authority that is only as it is in the electoral order in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, in quotation marks, it prepares, collects documents for plenary, and should not decide on the matter, or whether the commission should say... not to allow the choice and the like, whether it should be an arbiter in quotation marks. Finally, we agreed on a resolution - and now again I do not want to evaluate whether it is compromise or not, I think it is balanced. As President of the Election Commission, I would like to appreciate that it was not voted forcefully, by some difference of one, two votes, but that there was majority agreement on that committee. It is therefore a resolution from today, of 10 November 2021, on the opinion of the legislative department. And I'll introduce you to him again: "The Election Commission, having regard to the written opinion of the Legislative Department of 9 November 2021 annexed thereto, I. takes note of the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament on the issue of the option of a member of the Government to lead the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; II. Notes that according to the said opinion of the House's Legislative Department, the candidacy of Karel Havlíček, a member of the Government, should not be allowed into the institution of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament pursuant to Art. 32 Constitutions of the Czech Republic; III. recommends the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to decide on the admissibility of the nomination of a member of the Government of Karel Havlíček by voting before the opening of the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies." In other words, in my opinion, the electoral committee has dealt with this correctly and rightly passing on this information to you, notes what it has received in that opinion of the legislative department, and recommends, so I want to use the word asking, by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, that we should decide on this here, because we are the right, supreme, independent body, in order to give ourselves some opinion and finally, as a plenary, the supreme body, to vote before the election itself. Now, technically, I will add that the election of the President of the House under the Rules of Procedure is chosen in a majority manner, a secret vote and takes place in no more than two rounds. And now, Mr President, I ask you to open a debate on this point. Then, for you new people, I will also have technical information on exactly how the election in the State Acts is going on, but I feel that now it is a little premature that now the plenary wants to focus on the subject, on the problem that is being discussed between us and the media. I would not be able to communicate technology until the end of the debate. Thank you and please open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u3	Thank you. Just one short apology. Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting day. I'm opening the debate. Four requests were received to the Secretariat with priority rights yesterday and all of them are from the club YES. I was informed that everyone would prefer Minister Havlíček to perform first. If no one objects to such a procedure, I would allow it. He'll get to all of them. Mr President - still - ODS MP, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u4	I think it's pretty simple. The Minister has priority rights. [[President: He has, but oral.]] So he can be the first to come forward, and we don't have to make any decisions about it or agree on it. I recommend that the Minister take advantage of his priority rights, and we've got this sorted out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u5	The Minister is using it, but it is preferred to have written applications, my colleague. So I asked nicely, I was decent... and they were earlier and they were in writing, they were yesterday's day. Excellent debate. If there is no objection, Minister Havlíček may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to talk about the legal requirements at this time, I'm sure there will be a lively discussion about this during the afternoon, there will be more of these opinions, but let me give you at this moment the reasons that led me to accept the nomination as President of the House, and at the same time to inform you of what can be expected of me, provided that I am elected. I would like to point out very first that I am taking the nomination from the ANO Club with great humility and respect for all Members of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I am very aware that only the ANO club does not have the necessary mandates, but nevertheless I have accepted this challenge. I would like to state the reasons: because I am nominated by 72 Members, which is more than a third of all Members of the Chamber of Deputies; because I was nominated by the strongest club in the House, which counts more votes than the sum of the second and third strongest clubs; because we, as a separate party or in our case, have received the most votes from the electorate, 1.46 million, and because these voters expect us not only to promote their interests, but we will also have the appropriate word; because I believe that the House should consistently control the government, and that is why the positions in the House should correspond to the strength of the parties or movements, and finally because we do not take decency as a weakness, and that is why we have declared from the outset that we will not prevent the emergence of a new government, we are not deliberately prolonging anything, we are not imposing any extraordinary demands, and we may sometimes be hard but constructive opposition from the first day. And we don't do it because we can't do it differently, but because we're objective and because we want to. [[13.20 hours]] You can laugh at us and make a factual argument that you have offered us two Vice-Presidents or a few committees, and we can respond that you and the Vice-Presidents have in particular thought about sharing all sides of the emerging five-calice and that there is no indication in the committee's offer of division of opposition-coals in the sense of, for example, budgetary, economic, social, health, environment, agricultural. We can argue 20 years backwards, each of us will undoubtedly find confirmation of our progress, and we can - or you can - react that we have no legal right to do so, and we will repeat that if the House is to consistently control the government, it must have appropriate tools in the logical relationship of clubs with the most mandates and so on. Of course we know we have no legal right to do so. We also understand electoral mathematics very well, and it is clear to us that there will be a government, probably a five-calice, in the near future, and even though we did not all like it, it is clear that the election tactic of the coalition has worked. Although someone more, someone less, but as a whole, the five-wheeler has won, a fair congratulations have to be given. That's why we're not going to prolong anything. All the more so, the new government is facing extremely demanding work. A global crisis in the supply of raw materials, various other components to industry, a global energy crisis, a x-wave of covid. All of this will mean that the government will have to take decisions that will be extremely difficult, unpopular. Government members - like us - will be under extraordinary pressure, including the pressure of interest groups and so on. All the more so, there will be a need for parliamentary scrutiny. I am of the opinion that the responsible government should want it. But if you command yourself, control yourself, evaluate yourself, even from the leadership of both chambers of parliament, then it is either an expression of concern about certain increased supervision, or targeted concentration of power, or enjoying the resulting benefits, and all this is possible. Nothing is illegal, it's democratic, but that doesn't mean it's right. Shortly to me. Don't worry, I'm not gonna read my resume here. I want to take it from a slightly different point of view, maybe. There may undoubtedly be a doubt as to whether I am a sufficiently experienced political or parliamentary player. I'm not. However, I am also not of the opinion that the position in Parliament must sit or be earned by the political or otherwise concerned. Each of the members of the House has different life and professional experience and trusts the public. That's why he was elected. I would not dare to argue whether the House mayor, doctor, businessman, teacher, minister or who spent most of his time in politics or directly in one of the chambers of Parliament. I am of the opinion that the most just is to vote among the candidates proposed by the parliamentary club, and it is a great honour for me that I have been proposed by the largest club. That's why I accepted the nomination, and that's why I'm not gonna criticize the candidate's candidacy. I respect that it is proposed by five parties with a total of enough mandates. Mathematics is clear, and I also realize what my chances are. However, I dare say that the fact of long-term, almost thirty-year experience in the management of industry and foreign trade, the university sphere, the employer's environment, and in the last three years with the administration of ministries can be beneficial to the House. In over 30 years, I have had many successes, logically and unsuccessfully. I was hard on my coworkers, but above all, I was extremely difficult on my own. I sometimes defeated my opponents, sometimes I was defeated, but I never insulted anyone, and I never tried to build success on someone else's failure. I may have been able, I believe, to objectively recognise the qualities of the opponent and defeat. It may not be entirely undiscoverable, but I am of the opinion that decency, respect and humility combined with healthy self-esteem are qualities that can be built on even in high functions. Madam, honourable Members, I would be honored to be elected. I'll also sincerely congratulate the other candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u7	I thank you and ask for another priority right - the chairman of the club YES 2011 Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate all of you on your election and also on your wish, which is also directed to all of us. It is our wish to treat each other in the next four years with the utmost fairness, respect, and above all, to always bear in mind that we represent the citizens of the Czech Republic who rely on us. It is a great honor and responsibility for me personally, which is why I approach this position with great humility. But now to elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The ANO movement club has 72 members and is clearly the strongest political club in the Chamber of Deputies. It was our duty to propose our own candidate as President to almost 1.5 million voters who gave us confidence and who we represent here, and our club decided to nominate Mr Karel Havlíček to this post. It was a nomination almost unanimous. The only exception was Karel Havlíček, who abstained in the election. I believe that Karel Havlíček is the best possible candidate for this position. I'm not going to introduce him in any way, it's not necessary, because we all know that he's a hard-working, educated person, that he's a man who's been doing a lot of business, led the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, managed many companies, and has been a successful minister in recent years. I myself have spent several years with him in the government, and I can say that he has one very important quality to carry out the duties of President of the Chamber of Deputies, namely that he always seeks the way to an agreement, does not seek unnecessary conflicts and is consensual. It is always true that the President of the House occupies either the strongest coalition or the strongest opposition club. It was no different in any parliamentary term. Now we are in a situation where the coalition candidate is the chairman of the second smallest club with 14 Members. Many times the coalition representatives have spoken in the media - the last time I saw it when signing the coalition treaty by President Fiala - that the coalition respects proportional representation. The President even mentioned this table, which we all know. [[It shows written material.]] And if I look at this table, if the number of Vice-Presidents is increased to six, then the ANO movement is entitled to three seats in the House's leadership. That is why we have nominated Karel Havlíček for chairman and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and Radek Vondráček. Like us, we can count to 108, so I believe that everyone can count to three, and that you will eventually get through the declaration of respect for proportional representation. I have, of course, become familiar with the opinion of the House of Legislation, and I take into account its legal opinion. On the other hand, it's not the only opinion, the opinions are different. I have read the views of, for example, Mr Kysela's constitutional lawyers or Mr Hasenkopf, who look at it a little differently than the House Department. We also have the legal opinion of the constitutional lawyer, Professor Kudrna, who claims - and I quote a part of his opinion: "From the wording of Art. 32 it is evident that this is a provision establishing an incompatibility of functions. On the contrary, it is not a provision establishing involuntarily or an obstacle to the exercise of passive electoral rights.' Here we draw attention to the wordingally similar provision of Art. 21 constitutions that provide that no one can be a member of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at the same time. This provision was never interpreted in the sense that the senator could not run in elections to the Chamber of Deputies and a Member in elections to the Senate. [[13.30 hours]] For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 32 in the sense that it is a provision of incompatibility, not of non-optionality, the provisions of Art. Article 2 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 (1) (a) 3 of the Constitution. According to them, what is not expressly forbidden is allowed to citizens and, on the contrary, state power can only be exercised within the limits and in the manner laid down by law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 32 in the sense of not incompatibility, but non-optionality would be an interpretation extending beyond the limits of the provisions cited. Thus, the candidacy of Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček as President of the Chamber of Deputies is not an article. 32 excluded." End of quote. The similar situation is, by the way, with the provisions of the clubs, when the rules of procedure, i.e. the law, are also seemingly clear. He says that Members elected to the House are entitled to the provisions of the parliamentary club at the beginning of the new term of office as an independent political party. A minimum of three Members shall be required to determine the club's provisions under the first sentence. But after the election, the coalitions fell apart into five separate clubs. And I ask, is it contrary to the law, as constitutional lawyer Mr Hasenkopf has repeatedly said, or will the coalition claim that this is just one of the legal opinions on this fact? Another similarity can be found during the elections to the SAO College. It is quite common practice for Members to become Members, although the exercise of office is also incompatible under the law. And how do you deal with that? Do candidates give up their mandates before the election itself? They don't give up. It is absolutely common practice that the terms of reference are given up after they have been elected. However, we believe that Karel Havlíček's candidacy and his participation in the election are admissible, and I think that especially healthy, because the choice of two candidates is simply better and more democratic. If we go back to the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, it is worth noting that, even with the votes that were over a million, around 57 percent of the people did not vote for the coalition of the Commonwealth or the Pirstan coalition. I understand that the feeling of 108 votes can be intoxicating and gives the impression that, thanks to the majority of the Houses, everything is possible, on the other hand, it also leads to a certain constitutional imbalance where three of the four constitutional actors will be from parties that most citizens have not given their vote. From both coalitions, we heard about the new and better political culture before the elections. But so far, reality looks completely opposite. You came at us with a steamroller, and you're trying to beat the shit out of us. I am talking, of course, about the distribution of committees, when you decided to remove the opposition from all the key committees. I'm talking about the House's leadership, where despite the declaration of respect for parity, it seems different at the moment. Instead of three posts, you generously offer us two, and you claim to the media that the extension of the number of Vice-Presidents is because of the ANO movement, and you are in charge of our candidates. If this is what the new and better policy looks like, and therefore keeping our promises, we have something to look forward to. First of all, the President of the Chamber of Deputies should be a person who is able to compromise, can rise above party jurisdiction in the management of meetings, conducts meetings impartially and respects the House's practices. I must say that, with all due respect for President Pekarová Adamová, whom I consider to be a very tough politician, Karel Havlíček is a much more appropriate candidate for this position, and so I ask for his support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u9	Thank you. Another priority right - Minister Metnar. I am terribly sorry, there is a factual comment by Mrs Karla Maříková. I don't know if it's just accidentally pressed? So I'm canceling it, okay. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to comment on legal issues, I am going to comment on Professor Havlíček as my government colleague, with whom I have spent a lot of time at the Office of the Government and in government negotiations. First of all, allow me to start with some things on which we can definitely agree: the President of the Chamber of Deputies is important and responsible. It is necessary to entrust this function to someone with sufficient and strong character and calm character, because, as we agree, sometimes it is not easy to adjust and soothe the escalated moods and emotions on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, it is necessary to entrust this function to a person with representative skills, because we are still talking about someone who is entrusted with one of the keys to accessing crown jewels. For the President of the Chamber of Deputies as representatives of the Chamber of Deputies on the outside, it is also necessary to master the ethical protocol and language amenities, which Karel Havlíček completes completely. The best candidate for the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies is Professor Havlíček. He showed us his professional and managerial skills completely and convincingly not only in the leadership of two ministries. His experience is why I support him in this candidacy. There are few capable managers and energetic people who can divide their time so that they can handle a large number of tasks, and they have properly evaluated these tasks and have been able to move forward quickly thanks to their determination. Let me remind you of some of the things Karel Havlíček did. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, under the leadership of Mr. Docent Havlíček, has prepared programmes at the time of the covidu, which have subsequently proved to be an appropriate tool in practice. Let me give you a practical example where the State enterprise LOM Praha, the founder of which is the Ministry of Defence, entered into a contract with UniCredit Bank on a revolving-usable credit line of a maximum amount of 360 million, where this loan of up to 80 per cent of the outstanding amount is guaranteed by the EGAP guarantee. This is an emergency measure aimed at mitigating the economic and social effects of the pandemic covid. Not only the state enterprise LOM Praha, but also many other companies thanks to this instrument were able to bridge difficult periods under favourable conditions. Furthermore, from my area of the Ministry of Defence and Support of War Associations: Mr.Docent Havlíček has been very active in supporting the project of the Czechoslovak Legionary Community, the Legiovlak project, which reminds of the famous annabáze of our legionnaires and among other things, the poppies are currently reminding us of this in addition to war veterans and legionnaires. Thanks to the support of Karel Havlíček, this project, which is a unique educational activity, has a clear vision in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and its organizations, and thus the declared continuation in the coming years. Please note also the steps of Karel Havlíček from the last hectic days, when he managed to agree with the last instance energy suppliers to reduce energy backups by up to 50 percent. Although some have been told that this step is not a long-term solution, it was a step in crisis management that deserves, identically, further appreciation. [[13.40 hours]] Even with regard to the issue of ŘSD, there are also strong and factual steps taken by Professor Havlíček, particularly when approving the intention to transform into a new state organisation, which has been addressed without clear results since 2015. I believe that this transformation will undoubtedly ensure the acceleration of construction, and as drivers, we will all feel it. We actively cooperated with Docent Havlíček on the establishment of the Agency for Intergovernmental Defence Cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, known under the abbreviation AMOS, established to support the export of companies of our defence industry. Since its establishment, Karel Havlíček has been the one who helped us to set up a wider range of legal, financial and administrative tools to support defence industry at intergovernmental level of government-government. I cannot forget even close cooperation in support of Czech defence and security companies in foreign work travel. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a brief list of the activities of a man whose position will undoubtedly ensure the proper functioning of the Chamber of Deputies. I am quite sincerely convinced that Professor Karel Havlíček is currently a competent person who should be given room for his personal and professional qualities. Karel Havlíček is currently the best candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u11	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Klára Dostálová with priority rights, Minister Brabec will prepare himself, also a priority right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u12	Hello, dear and kind colleagues, dear and kind colleagues. We meet in the new term. We have all declared the same in election campaigns - we want to unite society and we respect democratic principles. The result of the election showed that six people, six voters out of ten voted either YES, SPD, ČSSD, KSČM, Tricolor or Oath. This means that 57 percent of the voters who came to the elections did not vote for either the coalition of SPOLU or the Pirstan coalition. The ANO movement as an independent candidate voted for over 1.4 million voters and received 72 mandates. In addition to the Rules of Procedure of the House, which states in Section 77 that, apart from YES and SPD, neither of the parties to the coalition is entitled to a parliamentary club because it did not run as a separate party - unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure of the coalition does not know - so the requirements of the strongest club, which is YES, should be reflected. At the same time, I assume that the explanation of section 77 of the Rules of Procedure will make it equal to the political competition given by the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I also hope that the same interpretation will also be the nomination of an YES candidate for the position of President of the House of Karel Havlíček. I understand that the coalition's time requires many changes, even in a number of positions, in order to reach every coalition partner. We all had the full mouth of democracy before the elections, so I believe that this was not just idle talk and that the position of the strongest club will be duly taken into account in the leadership of the House, on behalf of the President of the House and the two Vice-Presidents. The chair's position is a diplomatic management position. This position should be about life and work experience from real work life. Our candidate Karel Havlíček may not even be introduced. He spent his whole life in business, managed the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and accepted from this position an offer to manage the Ministry of Industry and Trade - not because of political affiliation, but because of expertise. He demonstrated management skills when he agreed to drive the Department of Transport. That's what it takes for a really, really strong and managerially capable man. He led many foreign missions and led delegations for the Czech Republic. Excellent language skills are just the imaginary icing on the cake. Anyway, what happened? With its resolution, the Election Commission, as I put it on the table just a moment ago, denies the Constitution of the Czech Republic, democracy itself, and, in its essence, makes it impossible to compete with it. This is not a good start or our cooperation, nor is it a good signal for voters of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u13	Thank you. Minister Richard Brabec, priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will certainly not be here to explore this, as none of my colleagues did, and I am convinced that none of the other debaters will do it, we will not quote here from any books, or from the Civil Code, or from any other literature, to delay the negotiations. But I still think it's important for some things to be said here. Of course, because I've been told a whole bunch of things that I've had in my speech, too, it'll be even more brief. But let me just stop over one word repeatedly, or maybe more concepts that hide under such a nice cliché called a new political culture. I think that each of us has read and seen, heard many from representatives of the new, i.e. the future government coalition, who speaks of generosity, is talking about a new political culture. That's what I'm taking on is that our original one was wrong. And they're talking about how there won't be any retaliation, about what happened at the election four years ago. But then I hear - I think today is a beautiful proof of it - sentences that I will paraphrase freely in the following way: Nominate whomever you want, that is your right, we will not cast candidates, but we tell you directly that we will not choose your Vondráček or Havlíček or Okamura for colleagues from the SPD. And let us mention that taking into account the experience of Radek Vondráček, not only from the House's leadership, but as I had the opportunity to be with him on various foreign trips within the Union of Industry, his ability to represent the Czech Republic very well, the same is of course the case with our nominee Karel Havlíček, so the choice of each of these colleagues would be a dignified choice. If you look back at the four years ago - and that is, of course, the privilege that each of us today has, that we can see what we said four years ago or more - the President of the Stanjura Club defended the ODS' interest in the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies four years ago, and that Mr Fiala would be a very dignified representative. And all sides of the new government coalition had 70 mandates, 70 MEPs, and the ANO movement itself today has 72. So I'm starting to wonder what this new political culture might look like. Because, as I was saying, in our old one - I understand the bad one in your opinion - the political culture had three representatives in the leadership of the House, and I count the representatives of the KSČM who tolerated the government, and the other three. And today, according to that new political culture, the government coalition actually wants to have five of them, if I'm right, and it leaves two posts for the rest. And I think if it wasn't a five-wheeler, but a six-wheeler, then, of course, the Vice-Presidents would probably be not seven, but eight. Similarly, it is with the offer of committees - not so much in number, where I think it is adequate, but as far as their importance is concerned, of course Minister Havlíček has already mentioned it. So - and it's already fallen here - the new political culture is probably a rolling machine. I'm not whining, I'm just saying. But I don't quite think that's a good start in this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u15	Thank you. At this point, I have two factual points: Mrs Eva Fialová. I'm sorry, I always look around because... No, it doesn't, it doesn't. That was an accident. Mr. Jurečka? He checked in, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u16	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, I respect the right to have a debate here today, which will obviously be quite long, but I must say that we certainly know Karel Havlíček, who are here whether we are former members of the previous House period, but also the new ones, very well. We know his professional political activities, in many ways we could agree with him, in many ways disagree, so it reminded me a little bit that this place suddenly has a hint of litany on Karel Havlíček or some beatification process. I think we hear the arguments, we understand them. Maybe I'd just like to remind you, when there's this mess about us, we're ready to be a fair constructive future government coalition, discussing on fundamental issues a view from your side as a future opposition, but just please remember the things that have been here, for example, two years vacant position as head of the school committee. We have repeatedly asked you to make that choice, you have repeatedly ignored it. So just when you say the arguments, just remember what you've been denying and denying a long time ago a few months ago, just so you can see the tip of your nose. That's what I wanted to ask. Maybe if it gets easier later, today will be more constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u17	Thank you. A factual point, Mrs Pastuchová, will be prepared by Mr králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u18	I would like, Mr President, to respond to Mr Jurečka. I have been sitting here as long as you have, i.e. the third term, and I am surprised that none of your potential coalitions will introduce to new Members who Markéta Pekarová Adamová is. We present our candidate so that everyone can vote for the better, but you and I may know Markéta Pekarová Adamová, but many new MEPs, I think 102 new, don't know her at all. So sign up and introduce her to us in the best possible light!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u19	Thank you. Mr Robert králíček, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u20	Good afternoon, colleagues. I would have responded to Mr. Jurečka. So I'd like to ask him, when I listened to him, what he blamed us for not seeing each other on the tip of our noses. Do I understand, then, that your better policy is pure revenge? Now you're gonna give us back everything we've ever done to you? Is that better?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u21	Thank you. Mr Excellent and then with priority rights - or factual point? Chairman Jakob? With priority rights. Well, first of all, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, dear colleagues, I would like to ask: no one denies, does not deny the right to speak on individual nominations here, including the YES movement, only, through the President, to Mrs Pastuchová. Please give a nice presentation of the candidate for the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, whom you obviously know well because you were also here in the House, please leave to us. Indeed, we do not need you to call upon us to do so. Don't worry, everything will be fine. See how many entries there are, I see only the names of the members of the ANO movement. You have the right, but these things, please, you don't have to remind us. We are very well aware of this, and I would like us not to use the useless words about some kind of revenge. If we really want to work here in the spirit of some better political culture than last four years, this is not a really happy start. I think we can even forgive ourselves. Don't talk about revenge here, and I don't want to repeat all the arguments that sound in public space right now, but if you want to start this way here, I don't really think it's happy, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u23	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr. Mr. králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u24	I would have responded to Mr. Výborný. Leave it to us as we imagine Mr. Havlíček. You can imagine Mrs Pekarová as you like, but leave it to us as we imagine it. Well, don't you guys be badgering us! And with his revenge, Mr. Jurečka... [[President: I would like to ask through the President.]] I'm sorry, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u25	Well, thank you. Chairman Jakob with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the introduction here, I have the impression that we're going to be singing the ode to Havlíček and the ode to democracy, and judging by the list, we're going to continue this for a while. I don't need five o'clock on Markéta Pekarová Adamová. We all know her well, and she's a respectable and respected politician. To your ode. Something is the words you say here all of a sudden after the election, and something else is the actions. I've been here for three quarters of a year, and I've experienced your approach to democracy here on my own. However, I can't forgive myself for a few factual remarks. They are already measuring the size of the clubs here, while we use the coalition as a coalition during the negotiations at the setting meeting of the fact that we count and act as a club both of the coalitions of the SPOLU and as a club of Pirates and Mayors, and according to that are counted the proportional representation. That's what you're referring to, relative representation. We believe that we are following him clearly. And it must be said that it is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that Members' clubs have a proportional or partial representation in the bodies of the House. Thus, according to size, this concerns in particular committees, and parity, i.e. a representative for each club, this applies in particular to the inspection committees and possible committees of inquiry. There is not a word about representation in the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies and any proportion in the Rules of Procedure and it is up to the goodwill and agreement within the framework of the negotiations between the clubs. At the same time, we hear the words about a steamroller, but that's not really true. A steamroller that gave you insignificant committees, presidents of future insignificant committees? In your opinion, is the Constitutional and Legal Committee, the Education Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, or the important Election Committee, or the Committee on Defence? These are not insignificant committees! If you don't like it, what can I say? And it came to pass that Mr. Havlíček is the best candidate he can be. I'm not buying it, but I'm sorry, I don't think it's the best. Moreover, according to the legislative opinion of our Houses of Legislation, he is not even a candidate, unfortunately. Thank you and please when I look at the performers: I firmly believe that it will not be like a coffee tree, that you will all say how Minister Havlíček and Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček are the best candidate, you will not repeat why he is the best candidate over and over again, when he is probably not a candidate, as it seems. Let us act in a matter of fact, let the setting-up meeting take place in the best possible time frame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u27	Thank you. I have a point of fact here, Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u28	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if I overheard, but did I understand that there are two coalition clubs? But the House pays more. You mentioned that you're acting as a coalition club for the SPOLU. So how much do the House pay for the clubs? So you accept the literal interpretation of Section 77 of the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, but that's what you really said. Otherwise, I'm gonna back off because I'm gonna be one of the performers so you can tell me what I'm supposed to or shouldn't talk about. I'm sorry, I'll decide what I want to talk about myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u29	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Jakob, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I don't recommend to anyone what to talk about. I was just trying to appeal. As far as the clubs are concerned, you've been here four years. During the setting-up meeting, clubs can gather to negotiate the composition of the members of the Chamber of Deputies. Four years ago it was a democratic bloc, now it's the clubs within the two coalitions, i.e. the coalition of the COO and the coalition of the Pirates and the Mayors. It's a pretty straightforward thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u31	Thank you. This is all from factual remarks for the moment and we get to properly logged in. Mr Feranec is the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I'd go back to the legal nature of the matter in my brief performance. I think that's what we're gonna be discussing tonight. Before I do that, just a little complaint, I don't know if it's the election committee or the House administration. When we get a resolution from the Election Commission, which states that the resolution is attached to the committee's position, either in the annex or in the annex. But that's technical, I've read it, it's just a technical reminder, since that resolution is already being formulated like that. Now to the essence of the show. I really want to focus on the legal nature. We have received an opinion from the legislative legal department, which states that Mr Havlíček is unelectable, cannot take part in the election. I admit that this is a possible opinion, a possible interpretation, but there is far from being a single interpretation of that paragraph. And I'm gonna talk about the Constitution, Art. 32 constitutions. Other possible interpretations are that this is essentially an incompatible function as is the case in Art. 22 Constitutions - the position of judge, president - and that his election would result in his resignation. Minister Schillerová has already mentioned this, and this opinion - somewhere I have read - is also supported by the constitutional lawyer Mr Kysela, and it cannot be entirely suspected that he is a fan of us. I think there is another interpretation that his eventual election - Mr Havlíček - will not be possible to perform this function if he sits on two chairs. That's just it: don't sit on two chairs. Well, what would happen? What would happen is that the meeting would probably have to be interrupted for a time when he would have fulfilled that condition, which means he would have stopped being a minister. Which we know will eventually become the acceptance of resignation. So I repeat again, we're talking at least from my point of view about three possible interpretations of the article. 32 constitutions. The legislative department has chosen one interpretation, I think extreme - that is, it is absolutely impossible for them not to take part in the election, even though constitutional lawyers - it has already been mentioned here - do not think so. What is the indication of this interpretation? Yes, someone can say that in Article. 32 it is written that a Member or a Senator who is a member of the Government cannot be President, Vice-President and so on. He can't, he can't have a word. But we have the same word in Article. 21 constitutions. It says: No one can be a member of both chambers of Parliament at the same time. But no one has ever prevented a senator or a MP from running. And yet we remember the case from the last parliamentary term - or it was before last - now I apologize - when the senator ran in the House elections was elected, and what effect did it have? Well, he lost his previous function. So that would tell the other interpretation - incoherence of functions. We can look at the third option. That means he can't perform. How many Members were there in the past who were on committees and then became ministers? Very much. At least I remember Mr. Vojtěch. By the appointment of ministers, did their duties in the committees cease? It didn't. I guess they couldn't do it after that. That is why everyone subsequently surrendered, resigned to membership of the committees. So I'm just repeating - and really just purely legally, purely legally: there are at least three possible interpretations of Art. 32. And no matter what interpretation we choose, we should always stick to Art. "The political system is based on the free and voluntary establishment and free competition of political parties, respecting fundamental democratic principles" and so on. It's a political party contest. Well, where's the political party competition going? The competition of political parties takes place in the elections, takes place at the meeting of the House, but it also takes place in the election of the bodies of the House and so on. Where else would it take place? We should always interpret all possible interpretations in the spirit of this article. It is clear that the House is a sovereign, she can decide. But if we start by giving priority to a competition in a secret choice of procedure to take out a candidate, even though I don't think there are 100% reasons for that, I think we're moving somewhere else. As I recall, not so long ago we were still discussing Belarus, how Lukašenko first eliminated everyone and then won famously. I don't want to compare, just a reminder. So I repeat: this is the political dimension of our decision, no matter what we say. So I'm just saying: from a legal point of view, different interpretations are possible, and if different interpretations are possible, we should choose the interpretation that is most respected, for example, by Art. Five constitutions I've read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u33	Thank you. Next is Mr Miloslav Janulík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, as a legal layman here, I listen to the different interpretations, and I always get what Patrik here calls a double standard, and I call it a double kilometer. So just to refresh: I have, of course, also noticed that four pirate Members have created an MP's club. It is clear to us what we have been here for a long time, that the existence of this club is significant for this party in fact existential - it has the right to financial support from the House's budget, i.e. from state money, for voters to know why it is so important. It's actually another source of actual funding for the party. [[14.10 hours]] So just to refresh: I have, of course, also noticed that four pirate Members have created an MP's club. It is clear to us what we have been here for a long time, that the existence of this club is important to the party, essentially existentially, has the right to financial support from the House's budget, i.e. from state money - so that voters know why it is so important. It's actually another source of actual funding for the party. I've already heard these quotes, I've been listening to them for eight years. The Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the law, has two minimum limits on the number of Members for the formation of the club. It was originally ten. And only such a historical exposition: by the amendment § 77 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure in 2006 was accompanied by a special opportunity to establish a club with at least three Members at the beginning of the parliamentary term, but only for the independent candidate party in the elections. If the memorials remember, that's when the Green Party made it, of course, with the help of the ODS and the People's Party. Otherwise, it would not have been possible for her to have an MP at all, because at that time only six members of the Green Party were elected, so there was a need for the amendment. They were met, of course the taxpayers paid for it. And with all the criticism of the then procedure, it must be acknowledged that in the 2006 elections, the Green Party ran as a separate entity. That is why, when the Rules of Procedure were amended, the emphasis was placed on the fact that the law explicitly stated the word'self-promoting political parties'. So, logically, we're in favour of making no profit from this reduced border from any of the other involuntarily elected clerks who would hide in coalitions. And here's the rock of injury. The pirates did not run separately in October's elections, but within the framework of the coalition with STAN. And now it's like... When it suits us, we refer to the Rules of Procedure, and when it does not suit us, it is as if it is not. It's a matter for the Pirát that they elected a coalition, but I think they paid for it. Not only to me, but I think we're all seeing it. One of the consequences of running for office in the coalition is that either elected Members will establish a joint coalition club or they can establish those clubs separately, but there must be ten. The reduced limit of the minimum number of Members does not apply to them because they did not run as a separate party. Well, then there's only the consequences. This is, of course, for lawyers that the existence of providing financial contributions to such a club is probably a little out of the law. It's kind of a little home. And now the question is, how do we proceed with this, because the state, the unclear legal state, is taking place? I, as far as I know... have been taught that the interpretation of the law is only authorized by the court. That the legislative department has an opinion here - from experience I know that two lawyers, three opinions and a bold invoice. But now that we're talking about the law, we've got to figure it out and explain it to the voters. And it is common human sense, because it is really absurd that four elected Members claim paid president, vice-president of the club, Vice-President of the House, ministers. It's just... With this optics, if it were to come to an end, one Vice-President would have to fall on four Members, and we would have to have - if I count correctly - fifty, those Vice-Presidents. I would like an opinion to come out of this or to be given, there is an opinion that is really relevant, but again I say that perhaps only the court is entitled to do so. So I don't know what it's going to look like in the future, but of course I'm going to observe with interest. But I think it's a little gunfire in my own leg. And I'm going to watch very carefully how from this problem that you've got yourself into, how you're going to skate out of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u35	Thank you. Member Patrik Nacher for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues. I will try as always - the Members who know me, so they've gotten used to it, the new ones, I'll tell them this way - to offer a slightly different perspective on the very things and put it all in some context. The first thing I'd like to mention, because I've been in different TV debates with many of you, where we've often talked about proportional representation, and there's no room in the media, so I'd like to explain here what it is and what tables we're talking about here. That is precisely "the table of figures for the establishment of the choice of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies according to the principle of proportional representation'. This time there are variants 1 and 2. One is according to clubs where is YES 2011, ODS, STAN, KDU, SPD, TOP 09, Pirates. Option two: YES, SPOLU, Pirstan and SPD. For viewers who observe this and do not know what it is, so when I take the proposal for the largest committees that are, so it is 25 members, if I remember well, where according to this table, which is simply given to me, it is simple mathematics, so the movement YES, there are nine Members, when it should be after clubs, ODS four, STAN four, KDU three, SPD three, TOP 09 two, Pirates zero. If it's after the big groups, it's nine, nine, five, two. That means SPOLU has nine, Pirstan has nine, SPD two. And of course, the table is equally based on the numbers of the House of Deputies. So at the number of six, if I take it from clubs, it's six, which is the current state, that means one chairman and five Vice-Presidents, so the movement has YES two, ODS one, STAN one, KDU one, SPD one, TOP 09 nothing, Pirates nothing. If it were to be after the big coalitions, it would be two, SPOLU two, Pirstan one, SPD one. [[YES]] But the moment those members should be seven, that means one chairman and six Vice-Presidents, so at that point, the conditions are interesting - the table exists, so I'm not making up - so yes there should be three - that's the answer to when I was talking about it on TV that I sucked it off my finger, I didn't suck it off - SPOLU three, Pirstan one, SPD none. If it were after clubs, three yes, ODS one, STAN one, SPD one, TOP 09 nothing, Pirates nothing. There. In other words, this is some custom that is, of course, followed by committees. Now, as I have listened carefully to Honza Jakob, it does not concern the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, where it is not a matter of use, but maybe it is some custom that will not be followed. So I'm going to repeat the ratio that so far was 3: 3, and at this point it's going to be 2: 5. What do I mean? I mean, even according to this mathematics, it is legitimate and logical that the club, which has 72 Members, proposes three representatives to the leadership at the moment when it was said that there would be seven politicians in charge, that is, one chairman and six Vice-Presidents. So, according to both tables, whether we look at it from clubs or coalitions, there are three coming out. It's not like we're making something up here to complicate things in some way, but it's a legitimate way that comes from a really proportional system and a numerical table. As for the point of view of the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies, we know from a political point of view from the past, and there are colleagues who have been here for infinitely longer than I have, that the President in terms of political position is important there at the moment when the coalition is uncertain or when it is half-half and, in principle, there is a third attempt that is already at the President of the Chamber of Deputies. But that doesn't happen at this point either. There's a coalition that declared 108. There is a president who has confirmed that he will appoint a new prime minister as soon as possible, and so he has. That means there are no more obstacles. In other words, the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not at the moment the person to whom it would be breaking down, where the coalition would be afraid that the two options would be exhausted, and then it is up to the President of the House. [[14.20 hours]] So that's the second, let's say, political reason why it couldn't be a representative of the biggest club. Likewise, if you look into the past, the President of the House, except for one minor exception, I believe in 2013, was the representative of either the largest coalition club or opposition club in the Chamber of Deputies. Yes here is obviously the biggest or it will be opposition, even if we don't divide it into opposition - coalition, so the biggest club, whether we put it in clubs or in sum. So much for the political part. Now let me take a look at the opinion of the legislative department. I even promised my colleagues on the electoral committee that I would find some things there that I couldn't find, because when we met, I honestly said I'd look for it, so I made some small preparations for it. The legislative department has literally said, and I quote: "The Legal Department concludes that the precondition for a Member of the Government to be elected as President of the Chamber of Deputies is the previous termination of membership of the government. This should be demonstrated at the latest when the Chamber of Deputies accedes to the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. If this is not the case, the Member may not be elected. That is, his candidacy should not be allowed." A very sharp position - I am not a lawyer, but I will offer another point of view that the Member, the Senator, who is then elected, will automatically disappear. That's what other people have been talking about. I'm not talking about it. But still, the movement is two-way. The Minister may be elected President or Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, but also Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies or Member who is in those committees - the point here is that the President and Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies are part of an organizational committee, which is excluded - so these Members can become ministers. That goes both ways, and that's what happened. For example, Minister of Interior Hamáček, 27. 6. was Vice-President of the House and became Minister of the Interior. That means the same day, that's where the resignation took place. As well - and I won't keep you here - Ivan Pilný, 24. 5. 2017 - Economic Committee, Ministry of Finance. Before that, Petr Bendl, 6. 10. 2011, before that, and we'll be on, Cyril Svoboda in 2007, and so on and so on. There was even Miroslav Kalousek on the budget committee and went to the Ministry of Finance. That means it's working. It goes both ways. And I'm not doing any more legal analysis here that Milan Feranec did. It's just an extensive, extensive interpretation of the legislative department for me. However, I will tell you here one experience, which I have a personal experience with the conclusion of the legislative department on this matter, and that these things are not so clear. I have also said this to the Election Commission, and I hope that my colleagues will support it and confirm it, and that is that we can only look at that view of the legislative department at one point of view legal, not the only and only right. I will remind you of the situation when the Czech Television Council called off the Supervisory Commission and we, as the Election Committee, asked the legislative department for an opinion. Those of you who were here, they remember. I quote the legislative department: "In this context, it should be noted that the Council did not mention in its resolution any reference to the specific provisions of the law cited under which it appealed to the Supervisory Commission. The appeal of the Supervisory Commission on the basis of serious reservations on its work as an advisory body of the Council is therefore a general and not a legal ground for appeal under Section 6 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the cited law.' There's no legal reason! "The Board's resolution does not contain any more detailed justification for its decision and the reasons for the appeal of the Supervisory Commission cannot therefore be assessed and evaluated.' I'm not going to read the whole position here, I don't want to delay it, I really don't, but it's an example of when we then - and most probably remember it by colleague Honza Bartošek, we are now alphabetically, so I don't know where exactly who's sitting - we got a terrible soda for it, you remember that. I also remember that when we proposed a resolution in the resolution of the electoral committee that we note that the only relevant assessment of the infringement is the assessment by independent courts, so we have been scolded for it - yet it is clear. Title in Respekt: "The House legislature: The appeal of the Supervisory Commission of the Council was illegal'. And we've been getting a terrible soda here. And that's what happened. It happened that, for three quarters of a year, the court dismissed the action of the Supervisory Commission, which sought the annulment of its appeal. According to the court, the board was entitled to dismiss the committee. "The city court considers that, in the present case, the Board has the power to withdraw a member of the Supervisory Commission for basically any reason, and if it cannot be found to be manifestly arbitrary or discriminatory, then such an appeal is in accordance with the law," the judge said. What I mean is, I'm out of here. There was also the position of the legislative department, which then transferred from legal to political, and after three quarters of a year we see that it is not like that at all! This means that the remedy here would be difficult enough if the two candidates could not be voted on, if it had to be reviewed in a court of law. In other words, I will sum up: for me the biggest club, at this point about the strength of 72 Members, has a legitimate right to propose to nominate its candidate. I will ask you and ask that we let that choice be passed and that today, which can be regarded as such a celebration of democracy, so that the Members of Parliament can make clear to you, and their preferences, whom they will vote. It's about democracy. There is always a better choice of two, so we move on to the next point, and I think at that point it will be okay both from the point of view of legal certainty and in particular from the political point of view of the new policy that is now taking place here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u37	Well, thank you. Now, please... A point of fact, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'll get to that point later. Just a brief comment on the new political culture, I will look into it in more detail. We politely asked on Monday to pair up that we have four sick MPs. The answer after the discussion at the club of the ANO movement was that it didn't. So much for the political culture. Now, let me remind you that we have four clubs at this and the next meeting where we are setting up the Chamber of Deputies. It is a club of movement YES - 72, club of association - 71, club of pirates and mayors - 37 members and club of SPD - 20. So, on behalf of two MPs, in this case, the CoC and the Pirates and the Mayor, I propose that we act today even after twenty-first hour, to act and to take a territorial vote even after twenty-first hour, even after midnight. Thank you, it's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u39	Thank you. This is a set-up meeting, perhaps it would be acceptable to interpret that we are not limited by the 21st, but I would also prefer that we vote for it as the House. I'll call all the coworkers from the lobby. [[14.30 hours]] Now I've checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. For newcomers: a proposal has been made to act today as Chamber of Deputies even after twenty-first hour, even after midnight, until the end of the day. I can still see a few colleagues coming, repeat: a procedural proposal has been made for us to act today and vote even after twenty-one and twenty-four hours. I think the number of entries is at this point... I'll give you a minute. We shall take a vote on who agrees with the procedural proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 6, registered 186, for 172, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Thank you. I have here a factual comment by Mr Volný. I don't know if it's just an oversight? In that case, we will continue the debate according to the written applications and Mrs Válková is next. [[Some Members leave the hall.]] I will ask all colleagues to end the discussions if they have something to discuss, so that they leave the O.R. quickly and allow their colleagues to speak. I'm gonna ask you guys one more time to see if they can possibly tell each other outside.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u40	I can see that when lawyers start talking, reasonable people leave the O.R. because they're gonna evaluate it's gonna be boring anyway, and they're not gonna understand it in part. And now, I'm afraid, in a sense, I will give the truth to these skeptics. Unlike my previous speakers, I am not going to deal with the political dimension, I think it is clear to all of us, and it was clear from the speeches of the previous speakers why we are proposing to the Vice-President of the Government, on purpose here I am saying his current position, Mr Havlíček, Mr Havlíček, if I use the academic title, and why we think it is appropriate as the strongest political party and the movement. This has been said several times, and on the contrary, we have been warned that we are repeating ourselves and that it makes no sense that everyone else knows. I am also glad that I do not have to repeat this, although I could, because I have had the honour of working closely with him as a Human Rights Commissioner for the Government. However, I would think about the legal issue, because I think that there is always stability, certainty and predictability of the law with regard to the rule of law. And now we are dealing with the question: Is this really predictable, how should we decide, in the interests of constitutionality? My answer is gloomy, sad, and basically in context with what I said as my first performance at the election committee meeting. Unfortunately, I also think, like some of you, that these interpretations can break up. One of the interpretations here has already been quoted repeatedly, so I'm not going to pay attention to it. It is an interpretation of the legislation of the Chamber of Deputies, which I would call such a cautious, very consistent with certain customs, interpretation, so that it is not suspected that it may imply, or even replace, what a political decision in this matter should look like. I totally get that. The legislative department, as I've been here for two periods, is super careful, and you, when you're dealing with his results and analysis, always tell yourself it's kind of a wasserdicht. I don't think we're gonna make a mistake like this, but it's not always the results that he's giving us, then he's gonna stand up, as Patrik Nacher said, in the next review. Now, about what I wanted to tell you after this brief introduction. The standard interpretation that we have just contained in the analysis that the legislative department has sent us is that the candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies cannot be a member of the government, because the election is already in compatibility. There is no provision that the election will cease to be a member of the government. And now here comes the first question. If we compare the provisions of Art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 22 constitutions and we will look at this by looking at whether the constitutional legislature has failed to address one of the important issues that it has raised in Article 22 of the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 - I quote him, I will not delay, but here it is really necessary. Article 2 (1) (a) 22 says: "With the duties of a Member or a Senator, the office of the President of the Republic, the position of judge and other functions laid down by the law are incompatible. " But then there is the clear, legally stable and legal certainty offered by paragraph. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 32 - If he were there, we would not be dealing with these problems right now: "The day on which the Member or Senator took office of the President of the Republic, or the day on which he took up the position of judge or any other position incompatible with the position of Member or Senator, the mandate of a Member or Senator shall cease to exist." So allow me to interpret in the sense that the Constitution has not modified this question, has neglected it, there is a gap in the article. 32, therefore, the second paragraph that I have just said in Article 32 is missing. 22, and we now have the opportunity, and we teach about it to students of the Faculty of Law, not the need to interpret per analogiam legis, to conclude that in this case we can proceed as provided in Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 per analogiam legis, meaning by analogy. However, it is clear, of course, for lawyers, colleagues, that there may be a serious objection that we cannot do this in the field of public law. But the objection is based on the fact that we cannot do so in public law, because public law should always provide protection against the will of state power against citizens, or against other entities. However, that's not the point. This is not about the exercise of state power, but - and now I will show myself a little bit as an agent of the Government for human rights - so that one of the fundamental rights under the Charter can be exercised, Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 4. I also wrote it down, or I could find it here and read it to you: "Citizens have access to elected and other public positions on equal terms. " What does that mean? The Constitution does not provide that a member of the Government may not run, but that he cannot be President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[14.40 hours]] So if we dared to use the interpretation, and I don't think it would take much courage - because I'm curious how Professor Kysela will react to it, because I think his reasoning went in this direction, and if they didn't, I'm sorry about the speaker's counter here - because the interpretation outlined in the context of Art. 22 would mean that membership of the government would cease by electing President of the Chamber of Deputies. So we could accept the choice. And I don't think that interpretation is excluded. I say, I think so. It must be viewed as one of the possible interpretations, and I certainly do not want anyone to use it here - but of course, everyone can use it at this speaking counter, or I am just saying it for myself - for example, saying that it is absolute nonsense. Fortunately, I didn't have any time today because I was dealing with the verification of mandates, establishing a meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, monitoring and having myself influenced by the appearances of political scientists and lawyers who were sure to have spoken for this problem. So I'd just like to ask you all for some caution. It's not a defense that we designed Karel Havlíček. This is an explanation that we do not think - and it was also articulated at the electoral committee meeting - that it would be impossible, not to say unconstitutional. Of course, this interpretation may seem extensive to you, nothing against it, is unconstitutional and, in my view, merely confirms that there are different ways of dealing with this issue. And I think that we should rather have this debate in the political direction, and we should leave that legal dimension open by saying, like mine, and by saying, which may now be a replica of my interpretation. We should definitely not say: here and now, because that is not what we are here to do, Members, now we have an interpretation of the legislative department, let us not delay, let us follow that interpretation... Sometimes it is very reasonable - in this case it could lead to comfort and speed that is not appropriate. And all the way to the end. Of course, if any of you feel that I have not explained something clearly enough - and I also hear it from my colleagues and colleagues from my fellow Members' club - that I sometimes do not express myself so clearly that they understand it immediately - I am also available to you at the break. Because all I wanted to do was to support the view here of this complicated matter that we are dealing with for the first time, if I remember, in the Chamber of Deputies in a way that allows interpretation - the ancient Latins know - per analogiam legis, or by analogy, to the nearest possible provision, if that provision, which might be missing in that law, that is, in the constitution, is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u41	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u42	Thank you. I just wanted to respond to a colleague of Zbyněk Stanjura, who I don't see here, that's S, so he should be sitting over there somewhere, about the pairing. [[He's looking right.]] I'm the vice president of the club freshly, but to make it sound the way it really is. Coupling is always about lawmaking here. I don't think there's ever been a pairing involved in secret elections, the less at the first sitting or the second meeting where the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies is elected. So it doesn't look like YES is rejecting something globally, but I'm specifying what was said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u43	Thank you. It is Mrs Jana Pastuchová who is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u44	I'm glad the step's still here... [[Mrs Pastuch pulled up a step below the speaker's desk and stood on it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the contribution to the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I did not want to make factual remarks, but I will respond to some of my previous speakers. Unfortunately, neither of them are here. I'll start from the back. I will confirm the words of my colleague, through your, Mr President, Mr Nacher to Mr Stanjura about pairing. As vice-chairman of the club during the last parliamentary term, I was in charge of this pairing for four years, and I really don't remember pairing across the political spectrum during a secret vote. It has really always been in the process of pairing in the law, which I think can confirm, by your means, Mrs Černochová, that there has always been no pairing in the secret vote, and certainly not at such an important election of the President or Vice-Presidents at the setting-up meeting. It's for Mr. Stanjur. Another point - Mr Jakob. I remember Mr Jakob's feeling - and I'm not really sure now - that I didn't have enough to Google it - that he came on in a hurry after Mr Feri. [[Noise in the hall, Vice-President Schiller: Kalouskovi]] . Kalousek, I'm so sorry. But it's from a club. I'm with the MP. jakoba I remember for his expressive speeches, sometimes boring. And that's why he's saying that we're here like a cup of coffee... Well, we're opposition, just like we're gonna be a coffee maker, and I'm rejecting his appeals to cut short, or somehow he's been lecturing us about what we're gonna talk about. We'll talk like opposition for a long time. As a coalition MP, I've actually been reading books here. We do not want to do this, we will be constructive opposition, but I do not need Mr Jakob here to discipline me for what I should and should not speak to. The same is my third point on Mr Excellent, by your means. I would not speak out on the fact that we are here to sing praises and we will be five more on our candidate, Mr Havlíček, but he invited me to do so by Mr Jurečka, who actually pointed out that he is probably not enjoying it, and I just said: I have now received Messenger few reports from the citizens that they do not really know Mrs Pekarová Adamová, and they would like to. But I'm not suggesting it, and I didn't even say it. I just said that some people would like to know Mrs. Pekarová Adamová, too. And I think that good advice over gold, the opposition has advised us here for a long time. And now for my aforementioned contribution to the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to start by congratulating all parties, coalitions on electoral achievements, to gain the necessary number of votes when joining the Chamber of Deputies, and to congratulate the winners. Personally, I am very pleased that in our team of the ANO movement we have, as a new colleague of the Member, now of the Minister, Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, a person whose diligence, expertise I admire and which I think - and according to the whole club of the ANO movement, because he received clear support - would be the best choice for the post of President of the House. Unfortunately, what I am not pleased about is that the five block wants - and, as has already been presented to us - to prevent political competition from being eliminated from the choice ahead of time by this great nominee. According to the five block, it is about legal interpretation, but everyone who has sat in this honored House longer and we do not have legal education - and I do not really have it - we know that legal interpretations are many, they differ and sometimes they are completely different, as my previous speakers have also said, honored lawyers. And it also depends on how this interpretation wants to be translated into reality. Let's talk about the above section 77 paragraph. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the [[14.50 hours]] Nevertheless, I believe that this third highest constitutional function should be held by someone whose quality is experience in politics, a man educated, a person who has experience in the business and university environment, someone who can act, is able to compromise, seek consensus, and would also be a great representation of the House in international negotiations. Karel Havlíček has also shown several times in his work in politics that he is not afraid of the challenges and that he will not back away from the tasks facing him, and all this Havlíček could prove to us in the role of minister. With all due respect to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who I have known for eight years, I cannot say this about her. I'm rather disappointed in her last decisions. As former Chair of the Social Committee during the last parliamentary term, I remember a number of statements from the Member on how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is managed badly and how she would do it better. She always knew exactly where the mistake was from her point of view and how she would never have done it. She herself claimed that she has been preparing for the post of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for a long time, and however much I disagree with her, I certainly cannot deny her that. It is so disappointing to me that the possibility of leading this important resort, which she claimed was devoted to as little as anyone and understood it, is running away from it. He refuses to take responsibility, and under the excuse for a political agreement, he tries to hide in the leadership of the House. For me, it is cowardice or hypocrisy, and I do not think that any such person should have sought the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, because the House President should have believed that he would not run away from his responsibility, because he is a man who is the driving force for agreement when approving the political matters at issue. I know that Markéta Pekarová Adamová, through you, is an intelligent person who engages in social policy. Again, she said herself several times that she was preparing for the post of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It is all the more disappointing for me that for me, and especially for citizens such important and central ministry according to media outputs so far, we do not know exactly, but I take it that way, it leaves someone who is a clear expert on agriculture, because our government was the said colleague of the Minister of Agriculture, in the past period he was engaged in agriculture and in eight years I have never seen a potential candidate or candidate for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the Committee on Social Policy. I don't want to cut down on the Department of Agriculture, but the proposed colleague at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as I know him from social networks, I see him here on the tractor, at the harvest, but not at all on social issues. Ms Pekarová Adamová's candidacy for President I take the House as an escape from responsibility and an attempt to hide, as I said, in the leadership of the House. Unfortunately, I also have to say the same thing about a colleague, through you, Olza Richterová, whom I also know for four years from the Committee on Social Policy and who has been through an intra-party, media-highly presented, transparent, on which the Pirate Party really bases, a selection procedure for the post of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. She succeeded, but then we read and we hear how sorry she is that no one offered the pirát a post. But then their chairman, through yours, Mr. Bartoš says that she doesn't really want this ministry for personal reasons. I really don't know where the truth is. And do we really want these people in the leadership of the House who are afraid of the responsibility that has been telling us for four years, and as an opposition party of course, I am very excited about it, are they criticizing all the steps that the coalition government will take, by the way, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs? Everything's wrong, we're gonna do better, and both of these candidates are scared, scared, and they're gonna go sit on an umpire. I was really hoping that someone would get into the House's leadership who wouldn't get away from heavy duty, and here I told you that these two ladies were moving away. Neither of them wants to take responsibility for what they've been criticizing for four years, one of them eight. Whoever really stands up to them will clench their teeth and over the mockery that I see here when our lawyers are talking about the nodding of their heads, that Mr Havlíček simply has no chance of taking part in this election at all, and yet, despite this ridicule and ridicule, I think he would do the best, most responsible job here as President of the Chamber of Deputies, because we know his work in the leadership, we know in the leadership of the ministries. Unfortunately, the work of my colleague, through you, I have no knowledge of Pekarová Adamová in charge in eight years. That is why I say that the best candidate for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies for our club of the ANO movement, which is the largest member club with 72 Members, would be our candidate, Mr Karel Havlíček. There's one more thing I won't forgive myself for. When I was sitting here in those ranks as a coalition, the opposition never forgot to say, and it was Mrs. Markéta Pekarová Adamová, by your means, that whoever is supposed to sit here and hear some unpleasant words, doesn't sit there. I regret that the candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies is already avoiding hearing her criticism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u45	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to respond to what Mrs Pastuchová said. She mentioned pairing at the beginning. It's been said here a couple of times. Well, just one important fact. I understand that the future government coalition has asked us to pair up four Members who are missing today. We had earlier, when we started, information from the mandate and immune committee. What did we learn there? All Members have been validly elected, 196 Members have taken over the certificate, and I am adding: and they have taken their vows. [[15.00 hours]] What does that mean? Those who didn't put him down... By the way, it happens to be - I am sorry, but it is four Members, a Member from the future government coalition. Those who didn't have it have a mandate, the so-called bare mandate. They're MPs, they have immunity, they take pay, they take things and so on, but they can't vote. So we were offered to trade four Members who could vote for four Members who could not vote. Don't be mad at me - I'll look away from the fact that this is not done in a secret election - this is a very, very unbalanced trade. We may have been naive in the last parliamentary term, sometimes we agreed on these exchanges, as I say, furs for beads, but that's the past! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u47	Thank you. It's 3:00 sharp. We started at 1:00. Since I cannot be alternated and do not want to abuse § 62, that if I stand up, I interrupt the meeting, but I would like to make an announcement in advance, and I hope that no one will object that I will give a ten minute break purely for biological reasons. We'll continue in 15.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u48	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 15.10 that we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. There is a factual point, President Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u49	Thank you, Mr President. There aren't many of us in the room. I'm gonna have to take a little nap. Even if there's a chic talk here, I don't consider the debate to be entirely worthy of what awaits us in the next few hours, and that's the election of the House President. Here are the words to Mrs Pekarová Adamová's address, like she's avoiding responsibility and all that. I really have to stand up for her. I've known her for years. She's an extremely brave woman. She has never shied away from anything, on the contrary, she has gone to all the challenges, she is our party president. Believe me, it's not always easy with us. And he's a person that I can't help but appreciate for how active he is and how strong he is in his opinions. Please, let's not include candidates here with any similar statements, it's not dignified. And I am really looking forward to being elected President of the House when she gives the post a hallmark and performs it very actively, very conscientiously and with everything that goes with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u50	Thank you. In fact, all of it. It is Mr Karel Rais's turn to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u51	Mr President, honourable Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members and fellow Members, I will not comment on the legal issues of the President of the House. I honestly don't understand that. But I will speak to Professor Havlíček from the position of MP, academic and entrepreneur, who has worked with and met him many times over the past thirty years. I believe that the choice of Professor Havlíček to head of the Chamber of Deputies is the right decision. He is an experienced politician and entrepreneur, a person who moves with knowledge of professional issues not only in the academic environment but also in the environment of practical, in the environment of manufacturing and non-production companies. Professionally, he's highly funded, able to represent the House on the outside with dignity. His linguistic amenities allow him to represent the House with extreme dignity. He speaks English, German, Russian, Spanish, partly French and Chinese. The days when the President of the House did not even have the basic foreign language equipment, as we have seen many times in the last 30 years, may be definitely gone. Personally, I would highlight his long-term activities in the field of innovative technologies, and I appreciate his efforts to link the technology of the academic environment with the real corporate world in the field of technology transfer. Political support for this area, with the level of leadership of the House, is very important for both academic and, in particular, for the business environment. The person of Professor Havlíček as President of the House would be clearly ensured. Long-term knowledge of the business environment, Mr.Docent Havlíček, has taken an interest in the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. I believe that the experience of managing this association, the ability to listen to the members' legitimate demands, to communicate with the members of the association, these are just some of the qualities of Mr. Docent, who provide relatively conflict-free and highly professionally-founded management and the House. Similarly, I could talk about his several years as a member and later Vice-President of the Council of the Government for Research, Development and Innovation. Life experience, together with professional scientific and managerial and business practice, gives us Members a guarantee of a solid approach by Professor Havlíček to carry out the duties of President of the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. May I have Mr Berkovec's word, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u53	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. I would very much like you to give me four minutes of your precious attention. My good friend, excellent man and climber, who was the first Čech to perform on Mount Everest, or if you want to go to Jomolangmu or Sagarmath, matka of the Mountains, during a conversation with journalists who didn't know much about high mountain expedition climbing at the time, so on their question, how he trained the last two months before Everest, answered: Everest doesn't ask what you've been doing for the last two months, Everest asks what you've been doing your whole life. Now allow a few of my experiences, such flush pictures from the last almost twenty years of meeting and working with Mr Karel Havlíček, in various roles between us. Role one: guest in the studio where I was as editor, journalist or moderator. An ideal guest because he didn't want to ask questions in advance. He was always ready, professional, helpful, pleasant. Like I said, ideal guest for journalists. Plus, I've always learned something, because the economy wasn't exactly my main topic. The same was true in printed media, such as Hospodářské noviny. It was also the role of the moderator when we met, so he was in the role of the chair of the association or pedagogue, which was very pleasant. It was also a work meeting on road transport safety, which he was doing long before he was Minister of Transport, because I am one of the signatories to the European Road Safety Charter. Cut, picture more: role of Minister of Transport. I am from the royal city of Slaný and for more than thirty years we fought for the northern bypass of the city. It was finally built at the time of our government. It was built by Minister Daniel Ťok and finished by Minister Karel Havlíček. Of course, it was the government's work under Prime Minister's authority. The role of this minister, Mr. Karel Havlíček, was really very distinctive. It saved us 10,000 cars and three thousand trucks across the city center. střih, other roles: the pandemic came. I have a lot of friends among musicians, actors, and they were really hit right in the ligament. They lost their jobs, they lost their resources, and you who were here, so I'm sure you remember well that it was him in the role of the Minister of Industry and Trade, who, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, worked for the first aid to be lost as quickly as possible. I had the same experience when small restaurants or small shops opened up after the lockdown, so he did not hesitate, although it was not at all easy and it did not always meet with warm reception, went to our region, visited those establishments, talked to people on the street and in shops. One of the qualities I value very much about him is that he intuitively connects people, not divides them. That's what I think is very valuable in life and politics. [[15.20 hours]] And since I think each of us has some Everest here, I'm gonna say goodbye to you by saying goodbye to this friend of mine: Everest doesn't ask what you've been doing for the last two months, but what you've been doing your whole life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u54	Mr. Juchelka, he's in his place. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u55	Thank you very much. I'm terribly sorry for not seeing any of those running for chair either, nor the candidate for chair, Markéta Pekarová Adamová. I was looking forward to her candidate speech because I think that we should have the right to know what vision she has with the Chamber of Deputies, where she wants to take her, why she did the dramatic turn when she was in the campaign for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and unfortunately, we probably won't know because she's not here, she doesn't listen to us, she doesn't care, and I see a point on the board where the motion for the election of the Chamber of Deputies is written, and she simply doesn't accept this point, she's not here, and I'm sorry. All the more so that we had de facto met in the election campaign in many discussions, just as with Minister Maláčová and Mrs Olga Richterová, and we were just fencing about who within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would be the one who might lead him, what vision we have, and in the pre-election programmes we were wondering where we wanted to move it. This ministry is becoming very strong because it is gaining strength because of what is happening in today's turbulent times. It is a ministry that is very dramatically addressing energy poverty at the moment, but there are, of course, longer-term topics such as the demographic curve, of course, the linked pension reform and the associated national policy, for example, for multiple families. It's a very difficult department, with a lot of tasks, and I'm asking if that was the reason for the difficult leadership of this ministry, which frightened Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Olga Richterová to run this ministry. Yes, I know that he writes and it is said that this was decided on the top floors of the TOP 09 and Pirates, but the interesting thing is that despite further interpretation of personal reasons which led to the decision not to fill this position, the posts of the House were immediately found, alternative and quite pleasant. It is something else to have a whole series of speeches and complaints during the election campaign and then to stand in front of the great house of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and try to realize that speech. But I understand that it is better for both the citizens and the employees of the ministry to be fair to both colleague Pekarová Adamová and colleague Richterová to say: I have no choice in taking responsibility, I have no choice in taking the position of minister, there is a great fujavice, I beg you, colleagues, to negotiate the peace where it does not blow so much, and that is in the leadership of the House. And I'm asking if it's responsible to the public when I say on election day that social affairs are my priority, if it's responsible to employees who are somehow preparing for new leadership, that it won't be anyone who profiled and presented himself this way in the election campaign? And not only to the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but to the labour authorities, the Czech Social Security Administration, the non-profit sector and everything the Ministry of Labour has in its sense. They simply threw away their four-year work because they won't go to those committees, they'll be in the House's leadership, and I'm especially sorry about Olga Richterová, who I didn't agree with in the vast majority of things, but we've always found common ground in some things. Unfortunately, she threw all this away by running for Vice President. And now at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, we'll have an ex-minister of agriculture, my friends. Nothing personal against Marian Jurečka, but we all saw it in the election campaign that he rode a tractor, not a senior home. And I didn't meet with the future minister in the election talks about the social. If I had known that, I would have stuck myself instead of some of my colleagues in discussions on agriculture, which I would have turned to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but that would probably have been the moderators and commentators knocking on their foreheads. But now it's real. Colleagues don't want responsibility for personal reasons at the Ministry, but the House's leadership doesn't interfere with their personal reasons. Probably the job is lighter, less responsible, less stressful, more comfortable, timeless, better paid - personal reasons for which there are things to hide, just this position in the House's leadership doesn't get in the way. But if I can't handle the Ministry, I want this here. Why do I say that? Not to speak to anyone who is supposed to sit on the imaginary House of umpire, but because it does not work in a democratic relative customary representation of the House's leadership. Have a Vice-President with four Members? So be it. But the biggest club, the YES movement, has a proposal for two Vice-Presidents and his club is more than eighteen times. And why do you want to just, and simply, undemocratically beat it up? Because you need - and you need to be honest - to feed a lot of hungry necks. There's too much of you in a five-wheel drive, and you just have to add chairs to the table at the reception so that someone important doesn't get offended and leave the reception. That's why you're increasing the number of people in the House's leadership to seven, which is why the government is likely and absolutely senseless to grow by three more posts. But, of course, we're still going to talk about that. There's still time for the government. So far, the House's leadership has had six members, and with the same number of members of the coalition versus the opposition, division 3 was 3, three for the opposition and three for the coalition. That was fair. Now there will be seven, and the division will be 2: 5. Your proposal simply behaves unfairly and takes up all your historically spoken things - a declaration of proportional representation, democracy, a fair distribution of posts in the House's leadership, and all these nice value speeches at the moment you flushed into the sewers with your 2:5 proposal. And not to mention that Karel Havlíček might be making some kind of choice here in the House. Just make posts and posts in the House as much as you want, of course you have the strength to do it. But do it fair, democratically and decently. You'll be here with us for the next four years, but do it so it's just not a rolling machine. And 2 : 5 rolling machine is. That is why the opposition is entitled to three seats. Here at this point, your fairness, generosity, a sense of justice are breaking. But if you don't have the feeling, your voting machine will run over all the historical customs of this House as a tractor of the future Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u56	Mr Marek Novák is next, Mrs Ožanová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members of the Government. We today have a very important task ahead of us to choose the new leadership of this House, and it is at the head of its President. In fact, we are creating an environment for the work of Members and Members' clubs for the next term of office. In my view, therefore, it is very important that people who are experienced, managerially equipped, educated and with due respect lead this Chamber of Parliament. It is also the first time in this parliamentary term that we should fully fulfill the content of the parliamentary pledge, that is to do according to our best knowledge and conscience and, of course, also in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The election of the House's leadership should certainly be a reflection of the ability to lead and resolve the situation. Let us remember the need to coordinate the House meeting in the framework of the pandemic, and with that also the need for further solutions. Also, in recent times, speculations about the president's health have shown how important and key we are as the House in our efforts to maintain the normal functioning of the state. Just as now, it will be important how rationally we overcome the difficulties of approving the next year's budget, the consequences of pandemics, energy prices and the real reduction in the living standard of the population due to these unexpected influences. [[15.30 hours]] The House's leadership should also be an important support for new colleagues, and let's face it, they won't have it easy. And there's more than half of them. Therefore, at the moment when we have the election of two candidates for President of the House, I hereby ask you to support one who, in my best knowledge and conscience, is better and fully fulfilling the demanding prerequisites for the performance of the third highest constitutional officer in our country, namely your votes for Professor Karel Havlíček. Professor Havlíček, Vice Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Transport, Minister of Industry and Trade, proved for his professional life that he was able to successfully lead, whether it were various European and domestic institutions and platforms that support small and medium-sized companies and businessmen, his performance as President of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Traders or as dean of the University of Finance and Administration, after his current work in government. Everywhere there he had to apply the prerequisites and abilities which entitle him to this candidacy and to perform the duties of President of the House. With respect to these experiences, it would be more likely that it would be the Member and Chairman of the TOP 09 who will be primarily involved in the work of the Committee on Social Policy or who will fight for the post of Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. After all, very often, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Maláčová was very much defined in her work. It could therefore be expected that, with this mandate and expert experience, he would try hard to correct the alleged mistakes. And as far as I can remember, as Vice-President of the Committee, he never actually held a meeting. That's why it's actually a wonder for me that he's now daring to lead the entire House as such. Nearly five and a half million voters voted in this year's election. The election attendance exceeded 65 percent, but unfortunately more than a million votes fell. This means, therefore, that compared to the number of eligible voters, which is currently about 8.3 million people, it supports a consolidated coalition of a coalition of a mere quarter of this whole. This electoral outcome should lead to constructive communication with the opposition in a democratic society. And I repeat: yes, we have acknowledged that we have not won this time, but at least we represent a similarly important group of voters, and we would like to be dealt with in this regard as well. If you ask people why they went to the polls, you'll know that to do well, to get better and to have support in someone's difficult and difficult times. It would therefore be appropriate and polite to set up the House in such a way that it would be able to face all the difficulties from outside and inside our republic as a defence shield. It has two options: a five-calice association or cooperation with a large and strongest club, although it represents the opposition. We've learned that in the past period. Perhaps many of you have forgotten that we have had a minority government that has been tolerated. We had to weigh every bill, every political position, so that we could fulfill not only the will of the people, but also the agreement for wider political agreement within the House. At this point, I am calling for nothing but this cooperation to continue, so that the ANO club, which has been trusted by a large majority of voters, is respected from the very point of view that it represents 1.5 million voters. Again, I stress that most voters from all the clubs in the present House. But there is a factor that suddenly changes the point of view of any expertise, and that again is politics and politics. The solidarity of the five parties who received the majority of votes has decided to divide the position in our House so that the opposition can speak to them in this way - as otherwise than as little as possible. What's the difference between last term and last term? The strongest member club, the club of the ANO movement with 72 Members, is silenced by the coalition group, which we have in the SPOL version, i.e. three political parties, one less. And what is most exhilarating is the head of the smallest TOP 09 group with 14 mandates to become the third highest constitutional factor in our country. We in the club ANO realized the reality of the election and accepted the opposition role. After all, this role may even seem much easier in many respects, although it is not. The responsibility for state governance is always logically coalitioned. As responsible legislators, however, we bear in mind the context of the time in which we are. Once again, there's a pandemic, it's growing, not our fault, energy prices. It is rising, not by our fault, inflation, which is destroying our population's last savings. We were given the mandate to represent the will of our voters who gave us the vote in the elections. The YES movement has received, I say it for the third time today, almost 1.5 million votes, and therefore it cannot just sit and watch with this strong mandate. The Chamber of Deputies must be a place of peace and support for citizens at this time. But only strong personalities leaning on a strong MP can provide that. And that is, at this moment, only and only the YES parliamentary club. Or do you think that a fixed attitude and direction can have We Three blinds and a Dog of the Five-Dog? Why this comparison? Those who know this book know that it was a holiday adventure that had its end with the end of summer. Of course, I'm a five-calice fan, as long as it lasts, and as long as you have that summer as long as you can. However, I am not entirely convinced of myself. We propose a candidate who doesn't go on an adventure, but to work with clear results and to cement. Believe us, we are proposing a candidate who will be the chairman of all Members, not the chairman of one club. We live in a difficult time, offering a number of conspiracy theories and easy solutions. He's raising violence in discontent. Well, it is at this time that the Chamber of Deputies must forget the words behind this microphone and use the potential of all elected Members to work for the state and its citizens. It also often means to look away from the political affiliation of the candidates and to put confidence in the experience and ability before a very, very close position. That is why I am asking you to support Mr Karel Havlíček in the election of the President of the House and I believe that you will all stand up for the election in the spirit of the pledge of the Member that we have made this Monday. Whoever forgot it, I will be happy to remind you: "I pledge my loyalty to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold its constitution and laws, I promise my honor that I will carry out my mandate in the interests of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. " Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u58	Thank you. I ask for the floor of Mrs Ožanová, Mrs Adámková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will remain faithful to my tradition from last term, and my speech will not be long. I listened carefully to the debate. The interpretations of the Constitution of the Czech Republic concerning Art. 32, which reads: "The Member or Senator who is a member of the Government may not be President or Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate or a member of parliamentary committees, committees of inquiry or committees." [[15.40 hours]] The article looks clear and understandable even for a non-lawyer. I remembered the topic in the media discussed, even now discussed, concerning one of the provisions of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, namely § 77 para. 5, which reads: "Members elected to the House shall be entitled to the provisions of the parliamentary club at the beginning of the term of office as independent political parties. A minimum of three Members shall be required to determine the club's provisions under the first sentence.'; This provision also seems clear and understandable. However, in its opinion of 26 October 2021, the Parliamentary Legislative Department stated the following: "The literal interpretation of the provision in question must therefore be rejected as incorrect to absurd'. I am merely reminding you that this is how Parliament's legislation has been expressed on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. However, a completely different approach was chosen in the assessment of the Constitution and its Articles of Association. 32. If in one case we accept a possible logical design about the absurdity of literal language interpretation, why do we not accept it in a similar case? Yes, I am aware of the complexity of the interpretation of the Constitution and of the laws and of the border simplifications that I have mentioned. But how are citizens supposed to have confidence in the state if only the most experienced and best lawyers have to interpret things that others simply do not see in the text? I consider the refusal of one of the Members to serve in the Chamber of Deputies to be outrageous. The right is for everyone, and not just for lawyers. Laws need not only to be passed but also to be applied in practice. I just hope that we will always remember today's debate when one of our colleagues tells us about his really well-intentioned amendments: However, practice will manage. He's really not gonna give me advice. Practice needs clarity and clarity, and not a concoction to lead a large number of different disputes. And not just the court cases, as shown in today's debate. I didn't want to turn on my TV last night. I regret it. The Czech TV programme host repeatedly asked why YES puts the candidate on the post of President of the House when she simply is not elected. Do we not allow this logic to run for political groups where it is clear that they will not make it to the House? Is it a problem that more applicants are applying for one job? Is there such a problem that there will be two candidates? I really didn't get that. I'm gonna get back to basics. Incoherence of functions is relatively common in our legal system, and if I have met it, the subsequent situation has usually been addressed in the relevant provisions following a possible election. The legislative department did not at all address the question of whether a legal interpretation concerning the automatic demise of government membership is possible, as is the case with Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, On the date on which the Member or the Senator took office in the Office of the President of the Republic, or on the date on which he took up the duties of Judge or other office incompatible with the office of Member or Senator, his mandate as Member or Senator shall cease to exist. The absence of a solution for the coalition is absolutely okay with the club's provisions, and now the absence of a solution is a problem. I am reminding myself of this quote from the opinion of the House's legislative department, just in case we know how to deal with similar positions. I remind you what they said. The literal linguistic interpretation of the provision in question must be rejected as incorrect to absurd. Please, let us also do so in the interpretation relating to Art. 32 Constitutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ožanová. Mrs Adámková has the floor and Mr Kubíček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u61	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will not, of course, repeat what we have heard, but I would like to turn your attention to another matter. I believe that everyone - and everyone who has spoken here - has something behind them - can learn, can learn, and I hope so. I am watching very closely the statement of the future government - and as you can see, there is no obstruction or anything to prevent this government from coming into existence soon. And what caught my attention is a great emphasis on potential support, further support for science and research. Our country needs this. The time of the covide has shown that I, too, want to learn there. In that case, I believe there is nothing simpler and there is nothing better to offer than the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies to occupy a man who has great experience in science, research, and we know that the future government is even paying so much attention to it that it wants to establish a new ministerial post, and that is not cheap. I suppose, therefore, that this is certainly a godly intention, we want to learn from it, and I think that therefore, Professor Havlíček should be the one that we should consider very seriously and choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u62	Thank you. I will ask Mr Kubíček to prepare Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, my lord, I will offer you a slightly different view, because we have heard everything here. I also had a bit of a celebratory speech prepared for Mr. Vice Prime Minister. However, we have a large number of new Members here, so I will offer you this interpretation. The Chamber of Deputies is a sovereign. You'll be hearing that for four years. By being a sovereign, he can vote and decide everything you don't know for sure that it's legally supported. As has already been said several times, we would have to wait for the interpretation of the court, because if the Vice Prime Minister was elected to the highest position, it would probably have been given some suggestion, interpretation and so on and would have been expected to confirm that this choice was made correctly. However, it is very simple as Members - and you will soon be able to do so - to vote on whether you will allow the Vice Prime Minister to take this election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u64	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník, Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u65	Good afternoon, colleagues. At the beginning of my performance for the new members and members of the House, I shall say that I must now divide my roles. It is like the rapporteur of the law, when the rapporteur comments on the legislative action in committees, but then, in a different role in the debate, he can give his opinion, whether political or professional. So even at this point, I want to underline this: I am not standing here now as the President of the Election Commission, where I have provided impartially neutral information or some results from this election committee meeting, now I am here as a member of the ANO movement and an ordinary Member who wants to contribute to this debate and make a few arguments. My performance is divided into three blocks or three topics. Before I say so, I dare to request or attract your attention, as well as the attention of the audience and the public watching us. In the entire election campaign and after the campaign we hear strong statements about the devaluation of values and now about the new change, about the return of democratic values, about another approach - so please, let's see, look, the public, what the change is, what the values are. Members of the new coalition, I'm sorry, I don't know you by the clubs yet, because by the names we sit, but I see the lines, I look among you, they're practically not here. There's almost no one here, except for the honorable exceptions I want to thank. I see some colleagues here from the Pardubice Region - so it's not a kiss of death, I won't name it, but I appreciate it, and I know they're taking it seriously, that they're here. But where are the Fial Lords, the Jurečk, the Stanjur, the Rakušan? Where's Mrs. Adamová Pekarová? Is this how you really take that choice? Is this how you take opposition seriously? Are those the new values? Karel Havlíček is here the whole time, sitting here all the time, taking it seriously. So this is the change we've seen. This is how seriously the new coalition takes us, the future waiting opposition. That's for the introduction. And now the three points I want to say. First, Marek the Výborný - it actually takes on itself, also absent - talked about how we surprised him, so we don't start with the new manners. Well, I'll remind you of the debate on EET, I'll remind you of the debate on the building bill, the debate on the election of the Czech Television Council. For the last six months in this calendar year, the democratic opposition here has said that it is dissatisfied. It's for you now, for the new members of the House with the choice of council. To see the details, I'm gonna grind them up a little bit. [[15.50 hours]] To see the details, I'm gonna grind them up a little bit. The choice of media councils takes place by discussing candidates and discussing the media committee first. The election committee will narrow the number to the so-called triple vacancy and from that narrowing, from the finalists, then the House will select. The narrowing took place democratically in the committee, a list of finalists was prepared. I think I'm looking at Standa Berkovec, the former chairman, that there were 12 of them. We should have picked four names out of the 12. This was a perfectly legitimate argument that the opposition did not like the names that went to the finals, that the pirát did not have their opinion there, and therefore, until we gave way, the choice would not take the form of obstruction, taking a break at the meetings of the MPs and long speeches - everything was perfectly okay. The choice didn't take place at all. We never got to it. Well, that's a message to the absent Marek Výborný, who surprised me with the appeal so we don't start something and do something. I think that our approach in this choice, in this debate so far, is very correct, decent and factual in comparison with history, that perhaps we have the right to do so. We certainly do not do that the club of the ANO movement has 72 Members and that we plan to speak for ten, fifteen or twenty minutes each and that we will speak here until Friday. That's one. Second, to the election committee. I see it on the networks, especially on Twitter, where enthusiastic journalists of the List, Journal N, Info and others are clear that the choice cannot be made, that we cannot allow it. It can be repeated now from that position where I am not in the position of President of the Election Commission, what we see. In short, there are other legal opinions in public space - Dr. Kysela, Pavel Hasenkopf. It's just that lawyers see that it's not that clear, it's not clear. And that is why I say for myself: if you are not afraid of the election, come to the election, let Karel Havlíček take part in the election and come to the decision. We are a sovereign body, and that is the only democratic decision. Nothing else and nothing else. Let's decide by secret ballot. And now, in conclusion, to the person proposed to us by the new president, all the time absent - obviously she doesn't care, the choice, she probably doesn't care, or we just say what we want. I don't know if he's gonna be here or not during the interview. In fact, I'd like to appreciate at least Jan Jakob getting out here twice, fighting a little, and raising the flag. When I was watching Markéta Pekarová's public appearance, it's probably the new order, the new values, my friends. A lady, a colleague who applies for our favor, wants to represent us, wants to speak for the House, it should often be very impartial, it should be unpolitical, so she relied very strongly on her colleagues from the SPD that it is an extremist party. I do not agree with her views, the SPD is against NATO, it is against the European Union, which is why she should not represent us, I do not agree that someone like that should represent me abroad as a Member of the Markéta Adamová Pekarová. Is that, folks, democratic? That's what the person who's supposed to be one of the highest constitutional officials says and represent us all very often just non-politically and impartially? I don't believe that. Another example. This spring, on April, on the Internet, on Twitter, there was a nice funny video with exaggeration, when MEP Zdechovský was a participant. It was about some applications for political parties. Again, Markéta Adamová Pekarová hurried with a video in quotation marks of wannabe funny and ironic, where she threw an application into the basket to the Trikolóra movement. I'm asking Mrs Pekarová - unfortunately she's not here, so I'm telling her from a distance, or maybe a colleague named Jakob, if she says, "Will Mrs Pekarová be throwing our demands into the trash, our democratic ideas of the House's leadership?" She probably is, if she does, and she obviously doesn't care about our arguments. In the speech, I will continue to borrow some arguments from the Internet because I agree with them. Mr. Holásek on the server The invisible dog writes: The special chapter is the girl in the blue Markéta Pekarová - I think that her colleague is blue today - which casts the final president of the House Radek Vondráček as not a fully dignified and trustworthy person. If he is referring to his guitar extempor, it is obvious that he has no sense of humor and strongly overestimates the dignity of the House. But that's not the point. Mrs Pekarová, who leads her parents to watch politics and to vote, as she has publicly confessed, cannot forgive Radek Vondráček for simply kicking down the granny to the fighters against Miloš Zeman by proving that Miloš Zeman had done the signature of the House's summoning document in bed, with ironic humor, that this is probably the real reason why his colleague Radek Vondráček dislikes Markéta. And to further commenting on our presidential candidate for the House, I've already talked about the SPD. It is certainly against the fact that one of the Vice-Presidents should be the SPD nominee, a party that has received much more votes when converted into mandates than the TOP 09. And as I said, it justifies it by saying that the SPD is an extremist party, for political reasons, just because of some disapproval of political opinion. It's relevant, we all have that different political opinion. The author calls on his colleague to write in particular what points in the statutes of the SPD or in its political steps bear the signs of pure extremeism. Maybe it's a distaste for a less hard-working part of the population, which many of us share. And now I'm not defending my colleagues at the SPD. It's up to them to defend their own positions here. Or maybe it is a tough SPD stance against illegal migration in the European Union? We don't know. A colleague isn't here. I don't think they're gonna defend themselves. They're not gonna explain it to us. And at the end of the performance, Mr. Holásek writes an interesting observation that Mrs. Pekarová forgets one thing. Its party is very likely to become a member of the government, which, for the first time since the 1990 free elections, has a truly extremist party in its ranks. According to Mr. Holásek's author, this party is called pirát on the Invisible Dog server. The members of the Czech Pirates are members of the transnational pirate structures, namely the Pirate Internationals and its parts, the European Pirate Party, whose chair was extremely on social networks by 2019 with the expression Markéta Gregorová. The current chairman is the pirát, Mr. Mikuláš Peksa. The author concludes that it is a great paradox - communists are out, extremists pirát are in. This is what we have, my friends, a new democracy and the change and strengthening of the values spoken of by the representatives of the Federal Republic and the President of the Fiala. I'm gonna stick with the proposal for Markéta Adamová Pekarová's nomination. I have received, and perhaps many of you too - I am glad that perhaps my appeal somewhere in the galleys was heard among the emerging coalition, some colleagues are running out, so we are glad - e-mail, I do not know whether you received the appeal or the request also, from the political movement of Swiss democracy. This small political group - I confess that I do not even know its outcome from the elections, I do not know how they were when I quickly looked into the register, it is a registered movement, a registered entity - objecting to the proposed and subsequent election of the Chairman of the TOP 09 by Markéta Pekarová Adamová as President of the Chamber of Deputies. The reasons aren't long, I'll introduce you to him. Colleagues state that "our citizens have adopted the Constitution of the Czech Republic in connection with the creation of the Czech Republic through their legal representatives. The Constitution guarantees, in particular, that state power serves all citizens, the people are the source of all the state power it exercises through representatives of legislative power, and that the Czech Republic, with respect for the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, is a sovereign state." And now this is important: As part of the election competition, it was presented to citizens through Mr.Petr Fiala, President of the ODS, and at the same time the leader of the SPOLU coalition, especially the vision of the coalition's opinion unity and, above all, the vision of a fundamental struggle with the rampant lawlessness committed here by the government movement YES. Many voters supported the CAO coalition, gave it their votes, and the CAO coalition thus became the winner of the elections. But suddenly it is presented to us and proposed to us as one of the highest constitutional officials, the President of the House, the chair of the political party TOP 09. Even with the significant support of its coalition partners, the TOP 09 has already been the second least elected political entity with a little over 5%, I don't remember the number... Yes, 5.47. This was the result of the TOP 09 after the terms of reference have been translated. [[16.00 hours]] And one more, more fundamental thing. According to the writers, this is an absurd and completely immoral situation, especially in the context that, on 21 October 2021, recently after the elections, the representatives of the TOP 09 - and now watch out - were not voting in the European Parliament for the sovereignty of the laws of individual states of the European Union, contrary to the promised unity of the SOLU coalition and also the strongest entity. On the contrary, TOP 09 supported the European Parliament resolution No. 2021/2935 on the rule of law crisis in Poland and the principle of priority of European Union law. In other words, representatives of TOP 09 have preferred the sovereignty of EU law in the field of the European Union over the rights of individual states of the European Union, i.e. to the detriment of citizens of the Czech Republic. And this, my friends, is a fundamental, critical contradiction. We hear that the Association will be united, everything will be the same, right, great, in new values, then we learn that it is no longer united, but what is more, that whoever should be introduced to us and who should represent us as the House, voted or his party voted against the citizens of the Czech Republic. This should be heard here in plenary. So I'm asking if my colleague Pekarová here will explain the TOP 09 position, what was it, whether she agrees with it or not? It's not a formality. How are we supposed to decide whether or not we're going to support her in a secret choice with our votes? I am glad that President Petr Fiala has arrived now, and I believe that he will also explain to me that he will answer that question, whether you are united in that coalition of the CoC, or are you not, whether you, Mr President, do not care that the TOP 09 is voting in some opinion against the citizens of the Czech Republic when he supported a completely different resolution of the European Parliament than your colleagues from the ODS. It's absolute disunity. And please - and I don't mean this in any bad way right now - but please and I appeal: if you mean the new values you're talking about, seriously, if you really see it that way, please stay with us all the time, take part in this election with us and discuss it. It will be a sign of whether you really mean your words or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u66	A real point, Mr. MP Žáček, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u67	Thank you for the floor. I volunteered in a situation where my previous speaker asked where some of our colleagues were. Now the situation has changed, some have already arrived. But let me still say the comment that came to mind at that moment. At the time, they were definitely doing something more sensible than listening to some of your stupid arguments. Yes, you have the right to make these stupid arguments, and we also have the opportunity to disobey them here in the hall. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u68	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I was in another Chamber of Deputies last time, because I seem to remember it a little differently than the honourable colleague whom I respect. But I also remember one line from one of the opposition members back then - you can go quietly to lunch, you have plenty of time... And it started. So please here, if you've noticed, the contributions are different, they're different from each other, and they're pretty material. But none of us did quote a book or give a speech for hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u70	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u71	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I, through the President, would be in the direction of Mr Žáček. I find it very inappropriate and especially not noble to talk about the fact that you left because you heard nonsense here. I find that really inappropriate. And let's try to keep up the fact that everyone here is gonna say something, and let's respect those opinions and respect each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u72	Thank you. So much for actual notes. I will ask Mrs Peštová for the debate, Mrs Dražilová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u73	Dear Government, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak at all because I am the newcomer here, which has been discussed all the time, that is to say about the 102 new ones. So I am not entirely new, I was in executive employment for eight years, and I was on the side when I submitted legislation, and I had to go through all the legislative process, that is, from the material intention, paragrafo the text through the Government Legislative Council, and it was not easy at all. It wasn't easy at all. And I honor the rule of law. I honor the rule of law, I honor the law. And what do I hear here today? I hear here today that the rules of procedure are to be interpreted in this way or so if we want to be a club or do not want to be a club. If we have § 77, which clearly tells us that only one who runs separately can set up the parliamentary club, if we have § 116, which clearly tells us who can give nominations, that it is the parliamentary club... I'm shocked. I'm sorry, but I'm in shock. For eight years, I've been doing legislation, eight years, and now suddenly I find that the law is actually a tearing calendar and can be interpreted as we want it to be. So what do we, as ministries, do these laws for? So we can interpret them the way we want? Or do we honor the law? I ran for the Chamber of Deputies hoping for something, and I'm shocked by what's going on here. You're the legislators. We're the ants that make those laws for you. And now all of a sudden, I hear it doesn't really matter, I'm not allowed to interpret the law taxatically, I'm supposed to be creative, I'm supposed to be looking for something in it. So what does the law say? It's a law that's passed by you, by the legislators, now and by me, one hundred and one votes, signed by the president... And now you're telling me that I can actually interpret the law the way I want it? I'm saying I didn't want to perform at all, but I think this should be heard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u74	Thank you. Two factual points, first Mrs Černochová, will be prepared by Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u75	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to respond to what was said here by Mr Vondrák, through the President. You know, my colleague, you have reprimanded my colleague Pavel Žáček here for his words. And I wanted to ask you, through the President, whether you responded in the same way to your Chairman of the YES movement, still Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who called this Chamber of Deputies a blabbermouth? So you're here reprimanding Mr. Žáček for saying that if there's anything stupid going on here, he doesn't have to listen to them in the hall, but he can listen to them in the lobby, his reprimand, and you didn't reprimand your party chairman? Or did you tell him that you don't like him saying this inappropriately about the Chamber of Deputies? I want to ask, where is the Prime Minister? Where are the other ministers of this government? How many members does this government have? Once as much as you're sitting here. So stop training us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u76	Thank you. Mr Nacher, factual point, then Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to respond to the reaction of Pavel Žáček, whom I otherwise appreciate, because I must say it surprised me. Because for those who are here for the first time, maybe even for the audience, it really is something else when there were MPs here who have read some of the stats for the third time, for the fourth time an hour, for two, and they just said, "Let the others go to the restaurant to refresh themselves because it was some kind of obstruction or something like that." While what's going on here today is legitimate speeches about either one of the candidates or explaining whether or not the candidate can run - what the legislative department has issued. [[16.10 hours]] I didn't notice a single speech that would have dragged it to nothing. I've had it on several pages, I've shortened it to the maximum, and I've been expecting some reaction, some response. We're here on the first day, we're basically the first day of the vote, and today the President of the Chamber of Deputies comes out of this. I find these words pointless, my colleague, through Mr President, and I would not expect them from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u78	Thank you. Mr Vondrák, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u79	Madam, through Mr President, I know that you shoot faster than you talk, but let us try to really keep a classy one. You see, he, by his very nature, is a place where there is only debate. And I have to say in the four years I've been sitting here, it wasn't a discussion or a dialogue, it was monologues. Monologists, when the person lectured and left. This is not a constructive policy. I think we need to find a way to say this, and I'd like to join Mr. Nacher - somebody here hasn't said anything that's stupid, and I don't think it's appropriate to say, "We weren't here because we're saying stupid things here." I'll admit that I've heard that from you sometimes, when others have been sitting here and talking to others. So I'd like us to go back to some serious discussion so it's a real dialogue and it's a dialogue, not a monologue or a bunch of monologues, so we can just talk about it. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u80	Thank you and the floor, Mrs Dražilová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u81	Thank you for the floor. I, too, will try to reduce my performance to a minimum. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, through Mr President, I would like to address President Petr Fiala. You repeatedly talk about wanting to improve political culture as future Prime Minister. I therefore do not understand why it is not respected and you ignore the ratio of forces in the Chamber of Deputies. As the electoral leader of the COO coalition, you won the election, which we have repeatedly recognised as the YES movement. President Andrej Babiš has even refused to accept any mandate to form a government by President Zeman and has given you room for quick government creation. Yet you insist that the position of President of the House be occupied by a party with the second smallest member of the House. I would like to remind you of your own words, which you spoke immediately after the election. You were talking about closing scars and bringing the nation together and winning a decent and value policy. But now, instead of being President of the House occupying the strongest opposition party, which is also the strongest party in the House, this function will be assigned on the basis of a hand and a desire to paint the YES movement. However, your coalition leaders themselves talk about this, how they will kick everyone out of the ministries who has taken the liberty of cooperating with YES - everyone who does not come with us goes against us, we will turn on it. As the strongest member of parliament, we come up with a candidate who has extensive management and leadership experience and has also political experience. He is very decent, very hardworking and would be a great representative of the Chamber of Deputies at international level. Instead, you are proposing a candidate who has not managed anything in her entire political career, except party functions, and has not had such great political experience, who has tried to act as shadow secretary of labour and social affairs for at least the last three years, so that, as has been said here, she eventually gets scared and prefers to hide in the House's leadership. Therefore, through the President, I would like to call on you, President Fiala, either to start acting according to your own words, to respect the allocation of forces in the Chamber of Deputies and to keep unwritten agreements, or to say frankly that your post-election speech was merely idle talk and that constitutional functions are important to you only for political handling. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u82	Thank you. Mr Feranec is registered in writing, then Mr Okleštěk from his post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise my second speech will be short, he would fit in a factual remark. I say, I volunteered because I assume that the general debate is coming to an end, and after this general debate, I assume that there will be a decision whether we will vote for two or one candidate. That's kind of my logical assumption. And before we decide on this, I would probably like to show the members of the future coalition the document that you probably know - the coalition treaty - and quote from it only three or four sentences: "The coalition parties subscribe to the principles of the Czech constitutional order, which is based on the division of power, a parliamentary democracy based on free competition between political parties and respect for human rights. They consider compliance not only with literature but also with the meaning of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and Laws as an important condition for the functioning of democracy." And another sentence: "The government created under this coalition contract will be ready to overcome the differences in society and join. He will be a representative of all people." End of quote. I'm saying this precisely because I assume we have a vote on how to vote, and you can decide, you have two ways. The first is slow, painful: to fulfill what you write in the coalition agreement, and what you write there, I approve it, but action is important, and you allow a choice from two candidates. The other way is fast, straight, leading to hell, and that's the way, I've already said it, à la Belarus - we'll take out the other candidates, make it easier. This is your decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u84	A point of fact - Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u85	I thought of a Latin proverb called homo homini lupus, but I think only a part of my colleagues can translate it. But that's not why I'm getting off. You know, I'm fascinated by the fact that this House has the largest representation of women in this parliamentary term that it has ever had, and when I listen to some of my female colleagues here, how totally unacceptable, in an unacceptable way for me here, they're attacking my colleague Markéta Pekarová, who, unlike you, ladies, is the third term here, she was a successful deputy mayor, and unlike you ladies, she's the party chair who was part of the block that won the election! Isn't that enough for you? Not for us. That's why our two coalitions nominate this woman, who you don't even touch your ankles, to be President of the Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u86	There are two more applications. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek has already applied to the factual case. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I wanted to perform, and I will not be short. I just wanted to say that the proportional system is guaranteed and is actually given in those committees. However, the House's leadership is, of course, a political decision. The YES movement was in a coalition with social democracy and KDU-ČSL, when KDU-ČSL had Vice-President of the House, even though it had the least Members with the Dawn at that time. It is a purely political decision, and so did your supporters from a purely political decision in the past period - whether direct or indirect, whether they were communists or whether it was the SPD - Vice-President of the House. And what was that other than a political decision? You can call it a political hand. I wouldn't call it that, it's a legitimate political tool to get support for a minority government. So please, let's just say it's what it is. It is a completely rational decision and it is a political decision. It is a decision which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and it is precisely because there is room for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to be set up in this way. It's a political decision, and there's nothing wrong with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u88	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to my fellow Member, through you, Jana Černochová, who I have really appreciated and known for a very long time. What you just said about the women of the YES movement is unacceptable to me that we are not touching Ms. Adamová Pekarová's knees. I'm deeply offended because I'm not a born politician. I've been saving people's lives as a paramedic for 30 years. And if you compare politics to the fact that neither of us sitting here is on our knees, Mrs. Pekarová Adamová, I beg of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u90	A point of fact, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u91	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure you can't expect me to criticize the fact that someone's performing, certainly not. The sentence about the lunch is from last term. I didn't read anything, I was really debating at the time, I think, about the tax package, and I responded here to the screams from the government desks: That's awful. He's coming again. So I just wanted to calm them down, that whoever wants to calm down... But let's see how the debate is going today. The ANO movement points to the advantages of candidate Karel Havlíček and, at the same time, I would say, in a rather outrageous way, it questions the ability of Markéta Pekarová Adamová to perform a function she has not yet been elected to. And we're having one dispute -- on Monday we've all made a promise to the Constitution -- which we're talking about whether the candidacy of Karel Havlíček is admissible. It is not the opinion of the opposition, it is the opinion of the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies. You know very well who you've been sitting here, that this union is extremely cautious and almost always writes, it can be one way or another. For me personally, this is an extremely strong position and rather surprisingly strong after experience with the opinions of the legislative department, which, by the way, formed or took over under the direction of President Radek Vondráček. So I think it's quite all right to point out the quality of your candidate, but it seems unfair to me at the same time to knock down the qualities and assumptions of his opponent. Have you heard any criticisms from any of us about Karel Havlíček? And we could, but we don't. The dispute is legal. The winged sentence that there are other legal opinions -- well, that's possible, I'm not questioning that, but here I have a union on the left-hand side that has made it very clear what it is. And it's not about the person Karel Havlíček, it's about following the rules. [[The President shall repeatedly draw attention to the time.]] I understand. So be so kind as to defend your candidate and stop spitting on our candidate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u92	Thank you. Or sign up for a new one, thank you. Mr Jakob, a factual point, then Mrs Peštová. Real notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take the liberty of taking on a colleague of Stanjura. Here we hear from the ANO movement that the opinion of our House of Legislation is just one of a range of legal opinions on the matter. I take it absolutely seriously, and what it says is absolutely crucial to the vote that is undoubtedly waiting for us. I would therefore like to ask Minister Havlíček, through Mr President, whether he has resigned to all, at least three positions in the government he has, whether the resignation has been accepted. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister, who, unfortunately, is not here, through Mr President - he stands by his words that this is a blabbermouth, I do not think so, God forbid - so who will be the Minister of Transport, Minister of Industry and Trade and Vice Prime Minister of the current government? If all these questions were answered positively, then according to our legislation, Mr Havlíček's choice would be admissible. That position is quite clear in this. So I would ask those answers, because this is crucial to our decision-making in the subsequent vote as recommended by the electoral committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u94	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, Mrs Ožanová, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u95	Hello again. Like I said, I'm a rookie, and I did my time here today. I've been here the whole time. So, through Mr President, to Mr Stanjura. If you did the same time as I did, you'd hear that opinion isn't the only one in this department. And there were also other opinions quoted here - constitutional lawyers. If you were here, through Mr President, you would have heard that what a lawyer, two or three opinions, so, in its essence, the only interpreter of the law is the court. If we want to know whether it is unconstitutional or, in fact, illegal or not, we need to file a lawsuit in order to find out. We should do the same with Section 77. We should do the same with Section 116 of the Rules of Procedure to see if the clubs that arose are by chance illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u96	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová, Mr Juchelka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u97	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. You know, you mostly got up just at the time when Mrs Válková, a criminal justice professor, spoke, who was really expert on the matter. I would like to say that if you were here, you would find that part of the members of the ANO movement was solely expressing themselves on various aspects of the choice. She didn't evaluate any candidate. Sorry, you don't know that because you weren't here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u98	Thank you. Mr Juchelka, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u99	Thank you very much. I am only to Mr Stanjur, through your Presidency, Mr Vondráček. Of course, we would like to discuss it, but there is no one to discuss it with. First of all. [[16.30 hours]] Second, Minister Havlíček had his candidate speech here, and I haven't heard it from Markéta Adamová Pekarová. I asked her here to come and tell her what vision she has with the House, what concept she wants to lead her, where she wants to go. And we just didn't hear it, so we can't react to anything. We can only highlight our candidate, first of all, and secondly, read from the media, how perhaps the future President of the House is criticizing the other candidates and says why not the one who says it in the media doesn't tell us here on the microphone. He won't tell us his vision, he won't tell us his candidate speech. So much please once again, and I call on you, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, through Mr President, tell us here what your idea of the House's leadership is, and I am still personally interested in the fact that you have been profiling yourself as the future Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, why you have abandoned this vision - and tell the citizens - to this end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u100	Thank you. Mr Nacher, a factual point, then Mr Kolovratník, a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u101	Have a good afternoon again. I thought I wasn't gonna perform, but I'm not gonna get it. I will respond to a colleague of Stanjura who knows if he's here now - it is - that we were very happy to listen to him there every time he spoke, because I have to admit that it has always been a matter, and then we got back to it. But unfortunately, just because half of the House wasn't here when we talked, half of them didn't hear it, and now I'm glad to see here also Honza Bartošek, where I was just talking about the fact that the legislative department was expressing precisely this strongly about the allegedly illegal appeal of the Czech Television Council's supervisory committee. We've been getting a lot of head-to-head here, that's right, and then there were articles in the media and the like, so that for three quarters of a year, the court would say that the lawsuit was dismissed. This means that the appeal of the Supervisory Commission was okay, which means completely contrary to what was written by the legislative department at the time. That's what I've been giving here as an example of... not that I'm rejecting it, but that it's just one look, one legal perspective that might be different. And then the court can say it eventually, which turned out to be here. That is why, as we predicted, we adopted a resolution that - and I must read it again, I do not want to delay it, but you, as you have not heard it, now I see you here, so perhaps my colleague Bartošek will respond to it, so the electoral committee notes that "the only relevant assessment of infringements is an assessment by independent courts." I remember getting whacked for suggesting this at the time - it's pretty clear that this is an illegal appeal by the Supervisory Committee. So much to explain. I'll say it twice, I'll admit it, but if you weren't here, it's happening again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u102	Thank you for keeping the limit. Mr kolovratník, a factual point. Mr. Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u103	You weren't here, so thank you for coming. I'll do it again. In my speech, I spoke of European Parliament resolution No. 2021/2935 on the rule of law crisis in Poland and the principle of priority of European Union law. Friends, that's not a small thing, that's a crucial thing. This is about European policy, about our position towards the European Union, and we have learned that colleagues from the TOP 09, colleagues of Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who are applying for the House President, voted against sovereign states, were in favour of the resolution. The ODS colleagues on that European soil didn't vote that way. Forgive me, this is a really fundamental contradiction, so what will be our foreign policy under the leadership of the SPOLU coalition. Maybe the new Minister for European Affairs, how much cheaper it will be for digitization, or as we hear, he'll figure it out or he'll figure it out. I don't believe it. So really, in a good way, please, Mr. Chairman Fiala, you, to respond to this, the contradiction - if it is marginal, if you are not yet dealing with it. I think that this is also an essential matter for who is to represent us as the Chamber of Deputies. That's ad one. I am following up on Aleš Juchelka and the candidate, please, and not only on this matter. But it's up to you to hear the appeal. And third time, through Mr President, on Zbyněk Stanjura. I don't understand. We've just been called upon to talk about Karel Havlíček, but not about Markéta. [[has been]] I, when I look at the tapestry, my friends, of November 22, 2017, one of the first points - the provisions of the mandate and immunity committee, which took place quickly today with Helena Válková - in 2017, the first to take the floor was Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and spoke of the then elected Member Grospič as excuses for encouraging the Stalinist to lead this committee. And he followed a fiery speech about the evil Stalinist Grospič. Well, it could have been, there could have been talk about him... and now we can't. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I'm asking for an explanation. I don't understand what Zbyněk meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u104	Thank you. It's a factual point. President Stanjura, then Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u105	soudruh Grospič is a Stalinist, so I talked about it, I didn't change anything in my opinion and it was your shame, you chose not only a comrade but a Stalinist to lead the mandate and immunity committee, and I thank our citizens that they left the Stalinists at the gates of the Chamber of Deputies this year. What Patrik Nacher or Martin Kolovratník said - you know very well that you can listen to speeches outside the O.R., such as Mr Nacher's speech I have heard all of them. And I even voted in favour of the resolution on the electoral committee. That is why we are also proposing a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which we should vote on after the end of the debate. The motion for a resolution is. "The Chamber of Deputies opposes the candidacy of Karel Havlíček, a member of the Government, to serve as President of the House because of the incompatibility of functions under Art. 32 Constitutions." And Martin Kolovratník, through Mr President: we will find dozens, perhaps hundreds of resolutions, when your MEPs voted differently than the majority opinion of the Chamber of Deputies. That's just the way it is in politics. This means that if someone voted differently in the European Parliament, it has nothing to do with today's choice. And I'm just reminding you that Markéta Pekarová Adamová was nominated by a club with 71 members, according to the Rules of Procedure. And that's it. Then I would like to ask that, when the debate is concluded, we vote on the motion for a resolution in the same way as we voted in the electoral committee after we have read the opinion of the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Only you took it quite quickly in the context of a factual remark, whether I could get the text of the resolution or Mr.... In writing. [[Member Stanjura off the mic: I agreed to send him...]] Thank you, thank you, okay. A point of fact, Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since my name has been mentioned here, my dear Patrik, my dear colleague, through Mr President, I have followed your speeches closely. I thought complimenting Mr. Vice Prime Minister would probably be enough three times, you guys did it 15 times. I don't mind. He's a handy guy. He handles two ministries. I've listened to it. It's more or less that there are two proposals against each other. We say it's unconstitutional, you say it's not. Let the vote decide, I won't delay it any longer. Personally, I think this game you're playing is fake, but you needed media space. I respect that. Let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u108	Thank you. That was the last point of fact for the moment, wasn't it? No, I'm not. Mr Okleštěk, then Mr Volný, then Mr Benda, and that is all for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, as my colleague Bartošek said here, there was a 15-time ode to the Vice Prime Minister, so you will give it to the sixteenth time. And I'm very happy that you were actually listening in your offices because it shows that you have an overview of what happened here, but you may have misjudged it. I've met the Prime Minister, or I'm sorry, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček from the position of Governor of Olomouc Region, and I have to say that all the regions should think about how the ministries managed by the Prime Minister -- look, it's always rubbing on my tongue -- the Vice Prime Minister helped. I have to say, in the traffic business, we have one of the most complex traffic hubs in our region, that's Přerov. We know about the construction of the D1 motorway Říkovice-Přerov. We know how many mistakes have been made in the previous decades. We're in a state today where we can finish. But the city of Přerov suffered in a disastrous way. There was such an environment that we couldn't go there. Today we have an stacade, an extra-level crossing with an expensive one. And I could talk about other x projects, like Blud's bypasses and stuff like that. [[16.40 hours]] But I would focus more on the activities of the Ministry of Industry, where Mr. Vice Prime Minister was the one who helped a large number of entrepreneurs and all the bonuses, incentives and subsidy titles in the corona-based period, so that we could at least hold those entrepreneurs a little bit and hold them. And that also showed its dimension not only professional but human dimension. I think that Mr Havlíček is the one who can apply what he can in the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies. Moreover, his diplomatic skills are the very skills that the President of the Chamber of Deputies should have. And I am 100% convinced that if Mr Havlíček runs the Chamber of Deputies, we can be proud of the administration of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u110	Thank you and I will ask Mr Jan Volný for a debate, Mr Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u111	Beautiful afternoon. Colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me really just take a short look at a few reactions to the turmoil that's going on here. Now, just the last reaction to Zbyněk Stanjura, who said that Mrs Adamová Pekarová is a candidate for an MP who has 71 Members, I believe that is what you said. Then I don't know what the President is, what club Mr Jakob is, my colleague Jakob, is, so I don't offend him, who says he's the President of the MP. I'm a little confused. I like Jana Černochová very much. I think we have nice relationships in the long run. Anyway, I'm really sorry about her saying who doesn't even touch who's ankles. I think that's a very harsh statement. And if some of the so-called big fives are calling for decent behavior here, that didn't strike me as correct, because measuring someone's ankles, I don't think that's right. To Jana Černochová, she says we're training you. Well, I'm a former top athlete, and I know training is a useful thing. Now imagine how this card really turned around, and how, in a mirrored way, what you reported as opposition in the past period, you are now denying, criticizing and resenting us as the upcoming opposition that we are defending our interests here, defending our candidates - and perhaps sometimes by comparison, we are a little bit awkwardly reducing the level or value of your candidate. Of course, that's not entirely ideal, but if I put the two candidates next to me, I guess everyone has to say that Karel Havlíček is somewhere else entirely. And I have no doubt that my colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová will learn to run this Chamber of Deputies in a few months and that she will be doing her standard work here internally, but I can't do her, and that is not an insult, that is not an assessment, I really cannot imagine her in international relations. And please, it's not just my opinion, it's not the opinion of the Yes Club, it's not the opinion of the voters, it's the voters, yes, but I have no doubt that the opinion is of the vast majority of the million voters who didn't vote for this five. But what is paradox: I am from Western Bohemia, from a middle town or a town, but I am an extrovert, so I have a lot of friends and I associate with friends of all political parties, but also from your ranks some of your members and your voters are rolled out of the fact that this choice is built on your side. But I take it as legitimate, I take it as a simple fact, because you have to take care of all five political party chairmen, and you have to place them where they are, as they will, they will bring something, and they will not cause any major problems. But that is no criticism of Mrs Pekarová at all, because I know that she is a hardworking and probably combative woman and that she still has something to do with herself. So these are things that bother me a little bit, a little bit, and I don't see the synergy. Of course, Mr Juchelka and then Mr Kolovratník here described the illogicality and a little bit not entirely fair at the ratio of 2: 5 in terms of representation in the Chamber of Deputies, and they compared it to the state that was in the last parliamentary term, when we had the strength of 108 Members, and the ratio was 3: 3. Indeed, you and the citizens of this Republic should be aware of this. But I don't want to say it again, I don't want to bask on it. I want to build it and look at it from the financial side. If the current coalition spoke in its electoral rhetoric about the need to save, the need to reduce civil servants and state bureaucracy and to reduce the budget by 100 billion, now it changes to 60, to 80, then those steps, as far as the number of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the extension of government participation by three other ministers, maybe without ministries, but we know that the burden on both personnel and financial will still be significant, so it simply does not correct what they said they would do. And I think people realize that. I hear it from all sides, and I don't think that's the right first step our future government has taken because... I'd be a fool not to wish this country to have a government that will lead this country to some prosperity, but I'm a little afraid of this. And I'm really waiting for my colleagues to deal with that promise to cut the budget by 80 billion - that's the last number they're talking about. Believe me, I'm going to turn around like this - you're going to sit like this in these rows, and I'm going to bow a little bit like this if you're going to vote and you're going to vote for a reduction of 80 billion. You say it's going to be from the beginning of next year, and you're admitting a budget provisional. I don't have a problem with that, because really, the budget commission isn't that dramatic, but I'm going to bow to the ground completely if you really save this 80 billion and next fall it's going to come out as an economic result, which means it's going to really go down by the 80 billion. I'm a little worried about it, I don't think that if the economy doesn't get cut off in terms of investment or population consumption and taxes don't go up, I don't think it's real, but I'm really rooting for you. Now I really mean it honestly and I will really bow my head if you do and by the end of the year this result will be like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u112	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from Mrs Černochová, a Rakušan Member will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u113	Thank you. I would perhaps like to inform my new colleagues, Members, that there are pages of the Chamber of Deputies on which you can read the tapes from this meeting, i.e. there is an exact quote of who has said what we have. [[16.50 hours]] I will follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Volný, who has expressed some discontent here that I have told my colleagues that the Markéta Adamová Pekarová do not touch her ankles. Yes, she did, and it was precisely in connection with the fact that two previous speakers, namely Mrs Dražilová and Mrs Pastuchová, here my colleague Markéta Adamová Pekarová attacked for not proving anything in her life that she had never held any important positions as Mr Havlíček and that she was actually not worthy of the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies. That's why I got off here, why I reacted, how I reacted. It was not in general for all the women in this House, it was up to you, my colleague. Because, as was said here, Markéta Adamová Pekarová is the party president who won the election. When you are presidents of the YES movement, I will applaud and say: Yes, you have achieved something that is not quite usual in the Czech Republic, that a woman will get to the forehead of the party. I applaud Markéta for it, and I think she deserves to respect all of us, and not to listen here for the third hour that she's incompetent and that she's never done anything in her life. You're wrong. And on what my colleague Nacher said here - I think it was that he demanded a performance by Mrs Pekarová: I would like to say that Mr Vondráček referred to the fact that his predecessor, Mr Hamáček, also did not perform and that he would not perform until after the election was held.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u114	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Rakušan, Mr Výborný - factual remarks will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u115	Have a good day. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. You know, we're having a bit of an unnecessary discussion here. No one denies that the YES movement, with the strength and success it had in the elections, has the right to propose its nominee for the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies, and we will lead a fair fight here between the strong coalitions, between the strong club of the ANO movement. That's all clear. It's just a bit of a shame that the YES movement, even though 72 MPs are sitting here, if I remember the number correctly, still names the same person for all functions. One Minister Havlíček, the other Minister Havlíček, President of the Chamber of Deputies Havlíček. Well, if it were chosen from the rest of the people, there might not be a legal problem of the type, so if he can be elected, he can't be elected, he can run, he can't run, it's put a strain on the debate for quite a long time. And another thing is: from Mr. Volný, we have heard sentences here - inexperienced and how it will be oriented in international politics, how it will manage and so on. I really find this prejudice forward a little awkward, I'm sorry. To tell someone that something can't handle, that some function hasn't grown up yet... Is it age, or is it due to sex, or what is it given? In what way is the doubt given? He is the chair of a successful political party that he is successfully leading. Keep these prejudices of yours. We also support as a coalition of the pirát and starosta, Markéta Adamová Pekarová, for this position, and I have clear expectations of her. It will be the President of the Chamber of Deputies, with a pro-European direction, a clear democrat. And I assume that he will raise the bar at the level of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe he won't be having any parties here after nights. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u116	Thank you. Mr Výborný, Mr Koten will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Government, fellow Members, I have yet to respond to the words of my fellow Member, Mr Volný, by your means. The repetition of the mother of wisdom - it has already been said here, but again. At the moment there are four MPs: 72-member ANO parliamentary club, 71-member SPOLU coalition club, 37-member Pirstan coalition club and 20-member SPD club. I'm sorry, unfortunately, I don't think there's any communication within the ANO club. It is amazing because you have the President of the Election Commission, but if not done, I will represent my colleague Kolovratník here and, through Mr President, Mr Volný, I quote the agreement that was passed to the Election Commission and also went through yesterday's meeting of the Election Commission. In this regard, it is stated that the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 are the members of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 as referred to in Article 9 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Annex No 7 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, bring together for the purposes of elections held at the constituent and subsequent meetings of the Chamber of Deputies under the name of the Chamber of Deputies. It is entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is no need to wonder. And the same thing, the same material was handed over to the electoral commission from the PirSTAN coalition. So much for that. And I just want to say very briefly that the debates and discussions on the assumptions of my colleague, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, seem really undignified to me. Markéta Pekarová Adamová has the clear support of the KDU-ČSL and the SOLU coalition for this position, and I am convinced that she will be a dignified representative not of any coalitions, but of all 200 Members of this Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what this is about, and I very much appreciate it, and thank you for accepting this nomination. Indeed, 200 Members will represent all of us, and I think that is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u118	Thank you for the exact two minutes. Now, Mr Koten, Mrs Pastuchová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u119	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would very much like to respond here, through you, to my colleague, Jana Černochová, when she announced that Mrs Pekarová Adamová is the president of the winning coalition. I would sort of fix it, because it's the Chairman of the TOP 09, which got a little over 5%, so if we were to recalculate it to those mandates, that's kind of how it works. That's one of the things. I would very much hate to run into some personal invective among Members here, because it is not going anywhere, but I would really like to find a way to handle this choice with dignity, because Members in this House know who they will vote for, and I would like to say that they will not change their mind. I am very sorry that we are labeled in some way from... or from the side of a five-wheeler, because we are a legitimate party that has received a mandate from at least 510,000 voters here, and I do not quite think that Mrs Adamová Pekarová has relevant information, because she is still referring to the SPD as an extremist party that has nothing to look for in Parliament, but does not have relevant information because we were getting into that report by two officials who were activists and simply wrote us there. On the last Security Committee, we discussed this report on extremeism, and imagine that the Ministry of the Interior was making excuses for them to focus only information from the Security Information Service and that they were just publishing. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] But Mr. Koudelka totally questioned it, and he was very unhappy... [[President: Thank you, I'm sorry. Please follow the factual remarks.]] ...that the Home Office is taking his alibi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u120	Mrs Pastuchová and her two minutes. Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to stretch this out any longer, but I still have to comment on the statement by you, Mrs Černochová. It's a good thing there's a stew. I have not said once that Mrs Adamová Pekarová is incompetent, I stand by that. I've only described our candidate, and I've described your proposed candidate on the list. And you didn't say it was up to me, Pastuchová and Dražilová. You brought it on all the women in the YES movement, which is why I responded. And I still stand by the fact that the position of a lifeguard or director in a senior home is nothing less than the chair of a political party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u122	Thank you. Mrs Peštová and Mr Volný, factual remarks will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u123	So I believe today is really the last time. I had such a more fiery speech here when I explained that, in essence, we are entering the Chamber of Deputies with the fact that we are beginning to bend the laws, which I do not like. [[17,00 hours]] It was made clear here that some of the paragraphs are explained in a way that they are not written at all. I say, repeat: 77, 116, let it be then a paragraph which says that these two functions, I mean the constitution, are incompatible. I don't know what we're afraid of. The current or future coalition defends itself, or says that it has 108 mandates, so why not approach it when we have several legal interpretations, where one says that it is illegal, the other says that it may be illegal, another says that it is not true that those functions are only incompatible, why not leave a candidate nominated by our ANO movement to take part in a democratic election and then prove whether it is, or not? 'Cause I'm saying what a lawyer is, it's a different opinion. I know the Chamber of Deputies is a sovereign, but the one who is an interpreter of the law is a court, not a Chamber of Deputies, but a court. So I don't know what we're afraid of, or what you're afraid of, why not let go of this fair fight of two candidates? And if you have that hundred and eight, there's nothing to worry about. Is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u124	Thank you. Mr Mr Volný factual point, then Mr Kolovratník, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u125	Someone left their glasses so he could see. Please, I'll take my reactions from behind. To my colleague Výborný: I'm sorry. In that case, if this is how it was presented, that these clubs have joined the election of the House of Deputies, then I understand. I just came across the fact that all this time, actually since the first meeting, since the first clubs, Mr. Jakob has been performing and titled Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, so I thought it was true. If it's a connection, I agree, I apologize for this complaint. And then to my colleague Rakušan: of course I'm not at all impressed by the fact that he interprets things again as he thinks it should be, and how he wants to take the whip. Please, take a look at the log. I never said Mrs Pekarová was inexperienced. I was careful not to say that, because I don't like saying it like that. And then I said that he could handle the House's management well, that he would learn it, like everyone else did. So I told her, on the contrary, that it was... And the last thing I said was that, in my opinion, Mr. Volný, I don't think he's gonna be such a dignified partner in international relations. But that's my opinion. Don't take that away from me. I don't want to knock down Mrs Pekarová, that's what I think. I don't think she can handle the House, the fact that she's incompetent, I didn't say. So let's be correct about this. And as for the vote, whether or not the colleague did. I think that colleague Stanjura has signalled that he will want to vote, and I am convinced that they themselves will vote in favour so that the colleague can enter this election because they are sure... [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] ...and they're right that they're 108 and it wouldn't be fair to cut it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u126	Thank you. We have to measure it the same way for everyone. Mr kolovratník, a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u127	I must respond quickly to Marek the Výborný, and now not to defend myself, but to the electoral commission. We have the information. I said so, and I'm sure all the colleagues from the electoral committee will confirm that we received the written document on time. It was Monday during the afternoon, both from the coalition of the SPOLU and from the Pirati-Mayor coalition, in time for the nominations. As chairman, I explained it to all the members on the committee. We've explained that it's okay as it is. Of course, it was also received by all the MPs, including ours, and Honza Volný has now explained this, my colleague. I understand you weren't here, you probably didn't have time to listen carefully. It was a reference to something completely different, to the fact that Mr Jakob spoke or argued from the position of Chairman of the TOP 09 parliamentary club, and other times the argument behind the SOLU coalition is. That was the contradiction, but not that we don't know or that we don't have the document. We've got him, and there's no need to pick on the electoral committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u128	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. With the replacement card number 24, Mrs Kovářová votes. And it is Mr Benda's turn for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u129	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the first task that will be for Markéta Pekarová Adamová and the whole new leadership that something will be done with this crazy mess of factual remarks, what we have experienced here today. I'm back on the floor for an hour, and there are absolutely valid arguments, and instead of people reporting, they're playing with factual remarks. That's the first note. Second comment: We can say that there are more legal opinions, but I just point out that our legislative department drew mainly from the comments on the constitution, namely the comments of groups such as Dr. Syllová, one of the co-authors of at least the text, Dr. Mlsna, Rychetský and Co., Dr. Filip a spol. They all agree on one thing: The Reasonable Report to the Constitution made it very clear that this was a ban on elections. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 32 members of the government. It is, in fact, a ban on the election of a member of the government in such a position, involuntarily. This interpretation is also confirmed by the explanatory memorandum to the Constitution at the time, which states that a Member or a Senator who is a member of the Government must not be elected to any parliamentary office. That's the reason message to the Constitution. I happened to be at the Constitution, so I remember. It was perfectly clear that no one who was a member of the government could run. And so I would say for the revival of memory, at least parts in this hall: remember in 2006, as was the state of 100: 100, long negotiations, three months of meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which met on Friday, 200 ballots were issued, 100 ballots for Miroslava Němcová, 100 ballots were not surrendered. Then it was agreed that the President of the Chamber of Deputies would be a Social Democrat. Who ran? Mr. Vlček, because Jiří Paroubek, who was supposed to be President, could not run because he was Prime Minister, and everyone knew that he could not run because he was Prime Minister, and a temporary solution was chosen with Mr. Vlček, who then never let him go, that is another matter. But just so we know what happened here in history. The YES movement could have chosen anyone to run for office, it would have been totally legitimate, but it can't have chosen someone that the Constitution says it can't run for office. Then it's clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u130	A real point, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u131	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Art. 32: A Member or a senator who is a member of the government cannot be the President, I have never questioned that, but we are concerned with the option. And what we have just heard here very convincingly, clearly and intelligibly from Mr Benda's previous speaker, by your means, are comments that are not binding. I was also looking at a back online comment. I have discussed this issue, I have read not only Professor Kysela's comments, I have repeatedly discussed it with Professor Gerloch. I also took advantage of the study last night, and I come to the conclusion that I presented to you here. I've only got two minutes to make a point, I won't repeat myself. It's not that clear, and the past shows us one solution. I am not saying that the solution that we are talking about is ideal and only possible, but to accept that when the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies tells us one position that is more appropriate to us right now, and we rely on tradition and we take it as a coin that we cannot question when we have a number of experts here who not only have a different interpretation, but even tell us how we could proceed - I personally have a certain opinion, which I have presented here and I agree with my previous speakers across the political spectrum that we should decide by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u132	Thank you. So much for factual remarks and Mrs Pekarová Adamová has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, Mr President, the public, you know, it is not customary for a candidate to appear as President of the House, at least in the past it has not been very many times. It has indeed been so several times in a few cases, and most of them have been represented by the elected President or President of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I consider it important that this debate should be held here - I have never called the Chamber of Deputies a blabbermouth, I have never thought of it that way, and therefore I greatly appreciate the discussion here, even though it may sometimes seem too personal, heated and sometimes in my opinion it is a little unnecessary. But what doesn't kill you makes you stronger, that's the password I've been following in the long run. And when you ask here, many of you, on my experience, or maybe at some point even question them, I will allow myself to come before you and tell you. I started in politics on one side, I've never been in one side, and that's the one I'm running today - it's been two years this month since I've been Chairman of the TOP 09. I confess to all of you that when I joined the political party, I didn't think about leading that party once, I didn't even have the ultimate goal of being in any political position, like just elected, like the House. Destiny has gradually blown me on these individual floors of politics, and I think that if you have the opportunity to do what you want to do, then make it out of some position - and here my ideals really remain the same as when I joined politics - then you simply have to accept the responsibility and take it. I've never been scared. I mean, that's for sure. I've never been afraid of it, or I wouldn't be standing here in front of you today. I was first in municipal politics, namely in Prague 8, where I was deputy and councilman of the city for four years. I had a responsibility for the social sector, but also for the European funds, and I learned that it is important to treat those positions with great humility to those who are more experienced, to those who work, for example, in official positions, to those who cooperate with you, not only within the coalition, but also in opposition, because we never know how it will continue to be reported, how we will be spread out in the next parliamentary term and so on. And I don't think digging too deep a ditch between them is good. But at the same time, I don't forget that it's a conflict of opinion, thoughts, and we just don't all have the same ones, otherwise we wouldn't be on different sides. This is completely normal and natural in democracy and we are a parliamentary democracy. I'm grateful for that, this year we're celebrating the anniversary of when we've had it, I was just a kid, but after many long decades, that's just part of it. Then I was elected a Member, and now I'm starting my third term in this House, and I have to say that the experience that a person is gaining here - and for you who are here, for example, right now at my first meeting, at the setting-up meeting, so believe me, they are invaluable. I also appreciate the fact that for the past eight years I could have been here as an opposition MP, because one of those things that brought us together, or certainly me, is that you have to be patient and listen to colleagues who are needed from the other side of the spectrum, and those who are government, have some goals and promote them. And it's legit again, and I'm very glad to have that experience. I was a member of several committees, such as the petitioner in the first parliamentary term, but also a social one, where I was subsequently Vice-President of the Committee during the last parliamentary term. I was also chair of the subcommittee on human rights during the very first parliamentary term. I must say that it is one of those areas - human rights in general - that I am interested in and not only in the Czech Republic, but also everywhere in the world. At the same time, I have in this regard, I would say, not as much managerial experience as Mr Havlíček, but some experience in managing not only the party, before I was Vice-President and so on, but also the committee itself. But I think what's important to you, if you give me the confidence to be able to function here in, say, a cooperative spirit, if possible. And I'll do my best. As President of the House, I will certainly not only represent my club, my parties who nominated me, but all the Members, and I want to make a clear promise and declare that, because I think that is how the President is supposed to perform his duties. And I think there is something to follow up on with the previous Presidents. Although I am critical of President Vondráček, I appreciate the justice he has often held these meetings with, and I appreciate the fact that he was a real professional in procedural terms. He has a bit of an advantage because he is a legal education - I am not, my education is economic and also in the field of adult education, but in this regard I think that President Vondráček has also shown as the first lawyer that it may be an advantage, but other House Presidents have managed to cope with it without any major difficulties, so in this respect I am not afraid that I could not do it. What awaits us in this parliamentary term is the Presidency of the European Union, or the European Council, the Council of Europe - the Council of the EU, so, sorry, and that is one of those things where I think we will have to forget a little bit about who we are from, who we are from, who we are from, because there will be representation of the whole Czech Republic, our whole country, not just ourselves, just governments. I would like to contribute to that. If you ask me about my language skills, I'll speak English without a problem. I would like the Chamber of Deputies to be open to the public, so that - now that we have had to close committees, we do not get used to it. The committees are public, it is the rules of procedure, and I want this to be more known to the public, for example, for more groups to come to this gallery - there are only a few people sitting there now, and I wish you a nice afternoon, but I think we should be more open. I also have a model of cooperation with young people, which I consider to be a very important area, civil education, education for democracy, and this is certainly needed from the younger generations, and the Senate can set an example for us in some of its projects and concrete actions. I'd like to introduce it here, too. At the same time, I am not forgetting that it is with the Senate that there is a need for smooth cooperation, and I think that there is also something to follow in this regard, even my predecessor, if I am elected, so I think that he has also done well in this regard. Working with you and the conditions for your work, no matter what club you are from, I think they are also extremely important. You know, sometimes we're under pressure from, say, the reduction of our possibilities here, in terms of expert, assistant, and with my eight-year experience, I know, and especially from the opposition, that this definitely affects the quality of our work. And that's why I want to focus on it, because it's for the benefit of us sitting here, but for the benefit of our work. And I'd like to conclude with that. I don't think the measure of our success is how many laws we approve here, that quantity really isn't what we're supposed to judge our work by, but it's supposed to be quality. The quality of the standards that come from here and which affect the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic - everyone as we know it from our lives, because we too have to follow them. I want to keep this in mind not only for the citizens, but also for us, that you all follow these rules, and one of those major laws is the constitution. I will no longer develop here what is written in the article. 32, the debate is going on here, but I think we should keep this in mind in our decision today. [[17.20 hours]] And last, so on light: I can sing, I've sung in several choirs, but on guitar - unfortunately I don't play guitar yet! Have a good day and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u134	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone is interested in joining the debate. Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u135	Thank you, Mr President. For a very short time. You were here while I was still performing, and in my speech, where I represented our candidate, I focused mainly on the diversity of legal opinions on whether our candidate is an optional Member, Mr Karel Havlíček. And here I am - I'm not going to say it again, I don't want to stretch it out anymore - quoting opinions. There is an opinion of parliamentary legislation, but that does not mean that it is sacred. That's just one of the legal opinions. I appreciate it, but I appreciate other legal opinions, and I don't think, Mr Benda, that the explanatory memorandum is a normative legal text - that is an interpretational guide, I'm sure you and I agree on that. So I quoted Mr. Constitutional Lawyer Kysela, Mr. Hasenkopf, but in particular I quoted Professor Kudrna, an expert on constitutional law, whose position I have here in writing, and so I gave it to you directly here. I'm not going to respond to any more of the invectives that have been heard here. It's absolutely undignified. I didn't have a single invective in my speech either, I think you can all confirm that. I'm glad for the performance, and I'm glad that President Pekarová Adamová has performed, that's certainly a good thing. I am glad that she appreciated the approach - actually the former one, we can now say - the President and former President of the Chamber of Deputies in the past period, Mr Vondráček. I am glad for her appreciation, he certainly deserves it, he certainly deserves it, and for example this, that she appreciated it in this way, will be reflected in the re-evaluation of the position when the election of our nominee Radek Vondráček will take place as Vice-President. I also appreciate what she said about raising young people, about democracy, all of which is commendable. So let's do the same here - we're setting an example not only for young people, but also for other people, people are texting us, I'm sure they're texting you like they've been watching me all day, so please let's give a chance to choose both candidates. That's the democracy. Let them compete in an honorable democratic free choice, a secret choice. I think that's all we care about here, because there's no clear legal opinion here, there's plurality of legal opinion, so let's test both of these candidates in the election, and then let's admit which one of these choices comes out as a winner. Please don't leave the taste in us, in the people who are watching this right at the beginning of this parliamentary term, out of simply not admitting one of the candidates. Therefore, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, I am reading the resolution of this text, and I will forward it to the President in writing: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees that Karel Havlíček, a member of the Government, is optional for the President of the Chamber of Deputies and for the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u136	I thank you and ask if I could have the resolution here, and I assume the President of the Election Commission has it, too. Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? I see no one, so I am done with the debate. The issue of ballots will begin immediately after the interruption of our negotiations and it will take... Maybe I could ask the Prime Minister here for the technical details, see if he can tell us how much time he needs. [[Attention from the diaper.]] I'm sorry, first the resolutions. Yeah, I understand. So I have finished the debate, and we would now decide by voting on the two resolutions that have been read, on President Stanjura's proposal and on President Schillerová's proposal. Then we would decide what to do next, because I myself am not sure about the wording of the proposal that the House does not agree with the candidacy, if that means automatically a one-digit ballot. So first of all, we would decide, I think I would let it vote in order, as it was said, because it is a counterproposal, or is it not a counterproposal? Madam President, did you propose this as a counterproposal? [[Yes.]] I'd be glad if we could deal with this in some way together, I wouldn't want to hurt anyone. A counterproposal? Okay. So if there is no objection to my action, we would vote against the Yes Club proposal first, then we would vote on the resolution made by President Stanjura. I shall, if necessary, call my colleagues from the lobby and read the motions for resolutions. Is there an application for a check-out? [[Yes.]] Please sign up with your cards again. The number of entries is, say, permanent. The problem with the voting device? So problem eliminated. I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees that Karel Havlíček, a member of the Government, is optional for the President of the Chamber of Deputies and for the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies'. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, we are 196, for 93, versus 103. The motion was not accepted. And now we will vote on the second proposal, on the original one: "The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with Mr Karel Havlíček's candidacy, a member of the Government, on the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies because of the incompatibility of functions under Art. 32 Constitutions." I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 196, for 104, versus 89. The motion was accepted. So, Mrs. President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u137	Exactly what I warned about happened. I'm not gonna judge this right now. Since it worked out, as it did, I ask for a 45-minute break on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, because we need to move on to the club and consult before the President of the Chamber of Deputies. So, please, members of the YES movement to move on to Club One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u138	I'm declaring a break by 18.15. I'll meet you here at 18.15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u139	The honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, is 18.15. We'll continue the adjourned negotiations. Let me remind you that we have a closed debate, I have no priority-rights logged in. So we're going to approach the choice itself. I would continue to speak to the President of the Election Commission to tell us exactly how much time will be needed to issue tickets and how long will it take to make a choice. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u140	Thank you, good evening. From me now, colleagues, technical information to make the election. In accordance with the resolution, or with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies that we have made, the electoral committee has prepared for you 200 ballots, on which one name is prepared for your designation, the name of one candidate, Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová, proposed by the SPOLU coalition. According to Law No. 90/1995, on the Rules of Procedure, the election of the President shall take place in a majority manner and in a secret vote, in no more than two rounds. The way of voting - the vote - is not decided here in plenary, it is done by law secretly. As I said, 200 ballots are prepared, bearing the stamp of the Chamber of Deputies with the text of the Secret Election and also the paraphas of two electoral committee verifiers. As I have also said, there is a name on the ballot, so at the moment one name is Markéta Adamová Pekarová, and it is marked with a serial number. Now for you who are new here. We issue ballots in the State acts on the left side of the Member's room. You're splitting into two rows. From your point of view, when you arrive on the left-hand row, there are Members whose surname is alphabetically from A to K, and the right-hand side for Members whose surname begins with the letters L to Z. Then you proceed within those State acts to the place where the electoral committee staff issue ballots to the Secretariat. Here's a favor for you. Since there are a lot of new people here, I beg you to always tell those workers your name when they receive the ballot so that they can speed up the extradition so they can record you as part of the election. This is an important moment, because of those who come to the choice, the total kvorum is calculated. Then don't modify the ticket. Then you move the glass door further away, where there are eight screens in the polling room to adjust the ballots and two sealed ballot boxes. I always repeat over the long term and remind you that it is necessary to mark the ballot correctly in order to be valid by the ring. There's a pattern of markings in those rooms by the screen. Mr. Žáček rightly warns me that there is no queue from L to Z, but up to Z. I add and thank you for the fundamental point of fact. Now, seriously, about the course of the election, or the outcome. In the first round, the President of the Chamber of Deputies shall be elected a candidate who shall receive an absolute majority of the votes of Members present, i.e. those attending the elections. That's what the kvorum is calculated from. If the candidate does not receive an absolute majority, the second round of the election shall be repeated. The same candidate shall proceed to the second round, if any, in this case. Should Mrs Pekarová not even be elected in the second round, the elections will end and will be closed in accordance with Rule 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 3 (18) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies requires a new election within 10 days at the latest. New proposals must therefore be submitted and the first round of the so-called second election will be held with the new candidates to be submitted to the parliamentary committee. Once again - this is repeated - they would have to be filed in such a way that there would be a 24-hour period between the proposals, the committee hearing and the choice itself. That's all, so much technical information. Now, as we're used to here, I'm gonna set some qualified estimates of the time to issue the tickets and the label to make the election. Since there's a lot of new Members, we'd better take a long time to keep things calm. So please, Mr President, 20 minutes to make the election, it will be by 18.40. Then I will ask about 30 minutes for the election commission's work, so in 19.10 it would be possible to announce the result of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u141	Thank you. The issue of ballots will begin immediately after the interruption of our negotiations. It'll take 20 minutes to 18.40. Then 30 minutes to the electoral committee to process the results of the secret ballot. I'll meet you in the conference room at 7:10 p.m. I am interrupting the meeting for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening an adjourned hearing. I will ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the outcome of the secret election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to this festive moment and I will introduce you to the results of the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies for the 9th term. In this election 194 ballots were issued, i.e. 194 Members and Members came to this election and participated in it, i.e. the quorum required for the election is 98. The number of valid and invalid ballots surrendered was 122, the number of unvoted ballots is 72. And now for the most important information. Markéta Pekarová's only candidate Adamová won 102 votes and is elected President of the Chamber of Deputies. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u144	Madam President, now is the time for a speech. You've already partially taken it before the election, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u145	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, honourable public, I thank you very much and with great humility, with great humility, and believe me, I am very serious and sincere about this responsibility and I really appreciate it. I would like to start by thanking Mr. former President Vondráček, and I think that - although we may have different opinions and may differ in some matters - he deserves great applause from all of us for how he led the House. [[Applause in the hall, everyone standing up.]] I'd be happy to shake your hand when we get closer. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the speech I had just a few tens of minutes ago, in a large part I have already conceived as I originally planned to take the speech after the election, I confess to you. That is why I would just repeat to you that I really think that our legislative body should look first and foremost at representing the voters with dignity in the Czech Republic, even those who do not vote, simply the whole of the public and the people of our country, and that, in short, it is our duty, especially in those key matters, and I think that there are many of them waiting for us in this election period to act together and to defend the interests of all the citizens of our country. And I think we'll be able to do that. I am a great optimist in this regard, and I believe that many of us actually have this interest - and we also remember the promise we made - in the first place. I would like us to really take care of quality before quantity. This, in my view, is extremely important and I would consider this to be the most important measure to be set. At the same time, I offer you a helping hand in all matters concerning the operation of the House and all the matters relating to our work, and I think that it is important in this regard that we speak frankly about them in order to talk about them in committees, committees, subcommittees and all the other bodies that serve this purpose. And finally, because the time has already progressed today, we still have a lot of things to do, and the program is long, I am turning to the public. I will do my best to increase my confidence in our Chamber of Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies. It's a task for all of us, but I'm gonna try to be the leader of those who are trying to, and I'm gonna love it if you're all gonna follow me. Thank you very much, thank you for the election, but at the same time I apologize to you for not knowing everyone by face that I will not be able to address them all on behalf. Please be patient not only with me at the beginning, but also with the elected Vice-Presidents. I would very much like us to realize that all of us, actually almost all of us, will be in that position for the first time. Thank you again and so much for me, I think that's enough. Thank you. Have a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u146	And I will ask you, Madam President, to take charge of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-004-009.u147	Mr President, you forgot to log out. That's what you should do after all. [[The chairman shall be returned and signed out.]] Thank you for your patience before I found all this stuff here. The next item is the item
