ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u1	6. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020 /German press 1019/ - first reading The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, signed on 5 May 2020 in Brussels, hereinafter referred to as the Agreement, I will shorten it. The agreement was signed for the Czech Republic by the then Ambassador of the Czech Republic to the European Union Mgr Jakub Dürr. This agreement is now submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to its ratification, as it is a Treaty of the presidential category from the perspective of Czech constitutional law. [[15.40 hours]] The negotiation of the Agreement is the completion of long-term relations between the European Union, the European Commission and the EU Member States on finding a common procedure for the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union which are incompatible with EU law. The EU Court of Justice confirmed the incompatibility of the arbitration clauses contained in bilateral investment agreements between EU Member States in the decision in Achmea C-284/16 of 6 March 2018 and thus became a strong impetus for the negotiation of the Member States' declarations of the will of the Member States to terminate the intra-Union investment agreements and subsequently to negotiate the agreement. Finally, 23 EU Member States agreed with the agreement, while others intend to deal bilaterally with the situation. It is Finland, Sweden, Great Britain, Austria and Ireland. Since the Agreement does not allow reservations and none of the Contracting Parties has applied an exemption, the termination of the bilateral investment agreements in question applies to the whole territory of the Contracting Parties, including their so-called overseas territories. The agreement is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and with other parts of the rule of law, with commitments taken over under other applicable international treaties and with generally recognised principles of international law, as well as obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the EU. By the entry into force of the agreement for the Czech Republic, there will be no need for a change in the legal order of the Czech Republic, but all existing bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union to which this agreement applies, including all amendments and protocols, will be terminated, with a list of these contracts in Annex No. 1 to the Agreement and excluding application of withdrawal periods. The Agreement itself has already entered into force on 29 August 2020, 30 days after it has been approved under the relevant national processes by two EU Member States which are Parties to the Agreement. These states were Denmark and Hungary. For each Contracting Party which ratifys, accepts or approves the Agreement after its entry into force, in accordance with paragraph 1. This Agreement shall enter into force 30 calendar days after the date on which that Contracting Party has deposited a instrument of ratification, approval or acceptance with the depositary of the Agreement. The agreement does not foresee a direct impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic, the budgetary implications relating to the conduct of ongoing arbitration procedures, which are the subject of Part 3 of the Agreement, cannot be specified at this time. In relation to the transitional measures pending and terminated by the arbitration procedure contained in Part 3 of the Agreement, it can be further noted that these relate to 17 terminations and 4 pending arbitration procedures. Transitional measures for ongoing arbitration may be applied only in the case of the interest of the investor and at the time of termination or suspension of the arbitration procedure. In all cases, the Czech Republic contradicts the claims made by the claimants of arbitration proceedings and it can be assumed that the Czech Republic would accept this position also within the framework of a structured dialogue if it started it. In this context, it can therefore be concluded that the negotiation of the agreement does not substantially alter the budgetary implications relating to the existence of bilateral investment agreements between Member States whose validity is terminated by the agreement and therefore it is not envisaged to incur exceptional costs related to these procedures beyond those which would have been incurred by the Czech Republic even without the adoption of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u3	I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Petr Beitl. Is the Member present? [[Voices from the diaper.]] Is he present? He's not present. So I would ask that... from the foreign committee, if you can identify any newsletters. [[The President shall be consulted.]] Yes, maybe the chairman of the committee. [[The President shall remain silent.]] That's the first reading, so I don't have a resolution here, so something in my head... [[Fun in the hall.]] You need to get out of your head, Mr. Ambassador. So I would just suggest that you know that this is a ratification agreement, an agreement to terminate bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u4	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President. I suggest...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u5	I'm not gonna... I will, then, let you finish, but we must vote for a change in the rapporteur. [[Merry Member: Yeah.]] I'd let you finish, but that's what we're saying, okay? Make sure it's correct. Who agrees with the amendment of the rapporteur to Mr Veselý? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 91 Members registered, for 73, against none. Amendment of the rapporteur to the Chairman of the Committee on Veselý. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u6	Thank you, colleagues, for your strong trust and for your word, Mr President. I am simply briefly stating that the Foreign Committee will deal with this directive, so I recommend that it be referred to the Foreign Committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u7	I am opening a general debate in which I have no one to report to, but Mr Adam Kalous is making a point of fact. They also report with priority rights for the SPD Radek Rozvoral. So, please, so Vice-President of the Radek Club, he Rozvoral it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the SPD does not support the implementation and ratification of the agreement on the termination of bilateral agreements and investments between the Member States of the European Union. We consider the relations between independent and sovereign states, which, on the basis of voluntary and mutual advantage, will adjust each other's affairs, in particular business and economic matters, which concern them themselves, or their companies and citizens. In this respect, investment agreements and their protection are a traditional and functional instrument of national and international law, where sovereign states set up their relations with each other, because only they know what is best for them and their citizens. We are opposed to delegate these competences to the institutions of the European Union, which, by definition, cannot defend and defend our Czech national and economic interests. But most importantly, the European Union is a temporary organisation, unlike national states that are permanent, and the membership of some states in the European Union is temporary, as we see now, for example, in Great Britain. Therefore, it is not practical to disturb any bilateral agreements between the Member States of the European Union, because it may soon be easy to negotiate them again. We therefore propose that this press be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u9	Mr Milan Feranec is now reporting, I do not have another application for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Here again, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for discussion to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-006-006.u11	A 30-day cutback, yes. I have no one else, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? The rapporteur, ma'am... you're not interested. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? He doesn't. So who's in favour of the motion being filed being ordered to discuss... [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yeah, I see. Here was the motion to dismiss, yes. Vice-President of the SPD Radek Rozvoral proposes a motion to reject the SPD. We'll vote first. Check out, I'm checking out, sign up again with your voting cards. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? Voting number 9, 82 Members voted in favour of dismissing 9 against 63. The motion to dismiss was rejected. [[15.50 hours]] We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? [[He doesn't.]] Who agrees with the proposal being directed to the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 83 Members registered, for 82, against none. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Now we have a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Mr. Milan Feranec delivered it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 85 Members signed in for 62, versus 10. The motion was accepted. This concludes the first reading of this proposal. We have also exhausted the 101st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, this is the end of it and I am now declaring a 15-minute break because we are going back to the 98th meeting. We'll start with paragraph 536, it'll be under secret regime again, and it'll be about Minister Hamáček. So we'll meet here in 15 minutes, which is at 16.06, so that we can technically prepare the House for a secret hearing again. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] So please, fix it, because we found out that something was poured into one voting machine. Now we don't know if it's sabotage or what happened. But that's what I say with a smile. So I've been asked to extend the break by five more minutes, and then the break will be 20 minutes and it'll be within 16.12. Meet me at 4:12. At least there'll be enough time to prepare the House for a secret procedure.
