ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - third reading Jan Bartošek, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club, is reporting before I ask Ms Šafránková. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. It is entirely legitimate to question the vote, it is common practice that we respect and respect. I consider the way in which the meeting is conducted to be correct and legitimate in the context of the fact that we are on provisional premises and that each Member and Member should see this as a substitute, let us say that the vote is governed by the possibility and it is the responsibility of each Member to be close to the Chamber when the negotiations begin. In the context of the previous vote, I consider it a very interesting awakening especially for members of the ANO movement - as I have a profit, I have understood that some of them had abstained before, and suddenly, after questioning the vote for the programme, they raised their hand. So that sounds very interesting to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u3	This does not change the fact that we are going to start, and I would therefore ask the plaintiff's representatives to take their place at the rapporteur's table. I see my colleague, Mrs Jarošová, and I will ask my colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who is the rapporteur of this press, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and parliamentary proposals are set out in the Houses of Press 652/9, which has been delivered to you on 25 May 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 652/10. I am now asking the appellant or the appellant's representative whether she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? He's interested. I won't give you my word yet. I'll ask government representatives to provide at least one minister under the Rules of Procedure Act. I think it's nothing complicated, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was present until a moment ago, I also saw my colleague Zaorálek. Nevertheless, I would ask the presidents of the ANO clubs and social democracy to secure one of the cabinet ministers. [[It's a delay.]] [[11.20 hours]] I don't want to burden Mrs Jarošová, she may be able to sit down for a while, but I'm not interrupting the meeting, I'm going to wait for the news from the government clubs to see how quickly the ministers can be here. [[It's a delay.]] Your colleague Chvojka has any information yet? Not yet. [[It's a delay.]] Okay, well, I'm interrupting negotiations by 11:30 so that we can say at least one exact time today, and I hope to have some information at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u4	According to the information from the Vice-President of the ANO Club, we are to wait about five minutes, because the Minister of Health has left the office, and of course we must respect the traffic situation in Prague, so by 11.35. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 11.30 to 1135 hours.]] Okay, five more minutes. 40, huh? I really don't want to break the Rules of Procedure. I want the Prime Minister to be here. I'm sorry if I can take this back because I just saw the Minister coming. I've notified the Minister of Health. He sacrificed himself. He came. [[The Minister is entering the door.]] Thank you, Minister. You're gonna have a hard time with us today. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before I give the floor to Mrs Jarošová, who will take the lead on the plaintiff, I state Mrs Šlechtová's apology at 11 o'clock for personal reasons. Jan Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL Club, will outrun Mrs Jarošová. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u5	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As KDU-ČSL has announced, social-legal protection of children is an absolute priority for us from today's points under discussion. There are a lot of amendments, but it is absolutely crucial for us to support our foster parents when we increase their rewards. We really want this law to be discussed today. That means, at this point, I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting by 30. 8. and I want us to go back to discussing the previous meeting on the point of socio-legal protection of children. I would like to ask you to remove everyone before this procedural vote and then put them all to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u6	Vice-President Tomio Okamura is also reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u7	I would just like to ask for a five-minute break so that all Members can gather in the Chamber, so if we can have five minutes. And if you would, Mr President, once again call on Members to vote to gather in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u8	I'm sure I'll try to get all my colleagues in the O.R. [[It's ringing the bell.]] We'd start the vote at 11.40, okay? If that's all it takes, Mr. Vice-President. The procedural proposal for an interruption of the 114th meeting fell by 30. 8th and reopening the 113rd meeting. We'll vote on that at 11.40. I ask all Members to take their seats. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. You've been checked out, so I'm gonna ask you. Please sign in. And at 11.40, in a minute, we will vote on this procedural proposal. [[11.40 hours]] The chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka is still applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm so sorry. One of the reasons why there was no minister, especially Mrs Jana Maláčová, was that a press conference was scheduled at 11 o'clock from Monday, where the Minister is, but at the same time there are two of our fellow Members, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and Mrs Valachová. I'd really like them to be put to the vote. The press conference is about to close, and they're on their way, almost on their way here, so I'd like another 10 minutes. Thank you. Ten more minutes on that break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u10	Okay, so I'm declaring a break until 11:50, and at 11:50, we'll vote on the motion. I must respect the proposals of all the MPs, but before that, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club applies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u11	Mr Vice-President, just assure me that it is possible to take a break after a procedural proposal is put to the vote immediately. I believe that this is not possible, that you should vote after the procedural proposal, and then a break should follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u12	But if this were a classic procedural proposal, I would understand this very well, but it was a procedural proposal on how long a break individual parliamentary clubs needed to concentrate Members into the hall. That's what it sounded like. Don't be mad at me. The Vice-President Okamura has asked for the same thing, and the President of another club is asking for the same thing. I chápat, but the proposal for an interruption was designed to be put to the vote, and my colleague, Vice-President Okamura, asked in the vote on the concentration of Members in the hall. I've complied, and if I've complied with one club, I've got no choice but to accommodate the other club. I understand that this is a procedural proposal, but if you were to protest, Mr President of the KDU-ČSL Club, about what Mr Okamura said, I would have done exactly according to the Rules of Procedure. We can, of course, it's in procedural notes, to drain the 10 minutes here, I see, so the first person to apply with priority rights was Jan Bartošek, then Jana Černochová, then Jan Lipavský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u13	Mr Vice-President, in the context that we are in spare spaces, I have quite accepted the remark made by Vice-President Okamura, who seemed legitimate to me at that moment, and I have understood that there is some room for Members to come to the hall. In any case, extending this pause seems inadequate to me, because each Member is responsible for being present in the Chamber and attending the meeting. It's not about someone jumping into Beseda here in Lesser Town Square for a beer, and we'll be waiting for him. That's not how you do things. I have simply put forward a procedural proposal, and I am convinced that it should be put to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u14	I understand that, but I had to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the matter that there must be a minister here. I had to comply. I have no leverage with the members of the government as President, I have asked the chair of the parliamentary clubs of the government parties to do so. They were provided by the Minister of Health, who was willing to come. Then we said we'd vote. The procedural proposal fell, but the focus is on the hall. So now, Mrs. Černochová to the same. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say that my colleague Bartošek has made it very clear. He made the procedural proposal, followed by Mr Okamura, Vice-President Okamura, who asked instead of the gong, and instead of the standard waiting for us to push the buttons, he asked for a break. And by the time that time had passed, you should have put it to a vote. There shouldn't have been any other suggestions here. Even procedural proposals are put forward in some order, and this vote is therefore due to take place. So, Mr Vice-President, let us vote in such a way that this is actually in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u16	If no one else, I will ring again and we will vote on Jan Bartošek's procedural proposal to interrupt the 114th meeting by 30. 8. [[The bell, the gong.]] I've started voting number five. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 5, from 100 in favour of 26, against 28. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue the meeting at the 114th meeting, by speaking to Mrs Jarošová as a representative of the appellants who asked for the introductory word. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague Lucie Šafránková, I would like to thank you very much today for all the discussions we have had so far on our proposal to amend the Act on Assistance in Material Need and some other related laws. It has been a long, sometimes quite thorny journey, but at the same time, the journey and work that has greatly enriched me and which - I firmly believe - has contributed, and, above all, will contribute to improving our social legislation and practice in the area of our social welfare systems. The proposal we are discussing today at the final reading is the result of more than two years of hard work, the result of hundreds of professional and political negotiations. Many of you know this well from your own experience, because over time you have started to cooperate on the modifications to this proposal, and we thank you very much for that too. We really want to thank everyone who has been involved in this cooperation and who has contributed to it. These are especially colleagues Marek Novák, Jana Pastuchová, Eva Fialová, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Alena Gajdůškovášková, Jan Bauer and some others. There is no doubt that we have succeeded together in a truly extraordinary thing, and now we have the last but absolutely crucial and decisive step ahead of us, to bring our efforts to a successful end, which is the final approval of the proposal in this parliamentary term, so that it will begin to work as soon as possible in everyday practice. We also want to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for their approach in the final stage of preparing a comprehensive amendment to our original draft. Colleagues and colleagues, the basic idea of our proposals is that public money paid aid in material distress and state social support should serve only as necessary assistance to those citizens who have entered a certain existential crisis and are trying to obtain from it their own efforts and their own work, or as necessary, necessary and necessary assistance to those of our fellow citizens who, for objective reasons, cannot work, such as seniors or disabled persons, all in fulfillment of the precise and strictly given legal conditions and parameters. Our proposal introduces clear rules and regulations into the welfare system and restores its original sense of being a safety net, or if you want a rescue trampoline for moments of sudden life crises. On the contrary, social benefits must no longer be paid to those who avoid work in the long term, although they can work, in various ways they cheat on our authorities and our state and ultimately their fellow citizens who voluntarily and finance them in the long term. [[11.50 hours]] The aim of our proposal is also to put an end to practice in order for some benefit-taking entities to be an advantageous business, termination or at least maximum restrictions on immoral trade in social benefits in overpriced and often devastated apartments and hostels, as well as prevention against the emergence and distribution of so-called excluded localities, which are a disgrace to our state and basically a disgrace to all of us who have the competence to influence the form of our social system. Lucie Šafránková visited many such locations, spoke with local citizens, social workers, teachers, school directors and local authorities, and we can say that our proposal has overwhelming support among these people, and she also has absolutely majority support among officials throughout the Republic. It is our responsibility for elected politicians to change the unacceptable situation in the area of social benefit abuse. There is no relevant excuse or rather an excuse for why we should not do this and why we should continue the unsustainable practice of the concept of social benefits as a kind of extortion for groups of persons who have found an alternative to honest work in their collection, and only in the name of some kind of false calm and fear of obtaining the funds of criminal activity after the withdrawal of the unduly charged benefits. That's an argument we can never agree to. In the name of all decent and working citizens, in the name of all the honest employees of the employment offices who defend the interests of the state in a difficult position, for which we thank them very much, thank you very much for your attention and cooperation, and most of all thank you for your votes, colleagues and colleagues, whom you will now support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mrs Jarošová. Mr Okamura has withdrawn from his priority right to speak in the debate, so we can start the debate according to the entries. Now Olga Richterová, will prepare Vojtěch Pikal. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u19	Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal that lies before us is not what it is being issued for. Unfortunately, it is such a wolf in sheep's clothing, or cocooned sections that play to help something, but it is not. Relevant, important organizations, such as the Charity of the Czech Republic, have expressed themselves against this proposal because it can harm tens of thousands of people who are not guilty of anything, people with disabilities, with disability pensions that are too low, and therefore need benefits in material distress, people who have specific diseases, such as mental health. That is why the National Council, which is concerned with mental health, has once again adopted a negative opinion in the sense that it is directly targeted, the bill proposal, the manifestations of certain diseases, and it is not possible, it is not right and it is not economic to punish those people for that. I therefore wanted to appeal once again to all of you who are sitting here to reconsider your position on what you are saying as a solution to trade in poverty. We all wish we could solve the people who profit from the poor, but this proposal, though it may seem like a solution, is the wolf in sheep's clothing. He drives other people into the arms of real poverty traders, especially those who have large hostels. This needs to be stressed and it needs to be said that it is well-hidden. That's why I don't blame you, in case you haven't noticed. I understand that this is a very complex material, but there would be no reason for so many relevant organisations to oppose it if it were not. I'll try to stress the main thing. Today, we have a social system set up on the principles of control and the principles that those who cannot help themselves receive support. I think that's right. And if we want to address the fact that the control and enforcement of workable people is not working, please, let's do this, but let's not sit down, let's not kneel to those who are not responsible for their situation. And once again, these are especially people who are recognized as fully disabled, for example, but because of the bad system that we have in our country, they live out of the benefits of material distress, and unfortunately this law goes directly against them. Why? Because it is aimed at removing benefits of aid in a material need for housing and living, not only for housing but also for food for six months, for half a year for inappropriate housing, not at the hostel, but for poor quality apartments. And that's just the first thing that doesn't make sense. Where are these people supposed to go, and why are they going to lose their livelihood and their food money because of poor housing? And the last thing, the owners of the dormitories and other than the residential space will be left with the housing surcharges. Taking out benefits because of low-quality apartments, not in the hostel, once again stressing the apartment, simply leading to deepening poverty, further criminality, and further burdening the state. And one connection that must sound very loud here. There are a number of families who are afraid not to lose their children precisely because of housing that is on the brink of quality. And I want to appeal here to all those who support themselves by supporting children and protecting them, so please think that this proposal does not, unfortunately, support prevention, does not encourage a reasonably set system of benefits to allow families who are trying to take care of their children to manage it through the help of the state to manage their housing. Unfortunately, this proposal submitted by the SPD is directly targeted by the threat of massive removal of children from families, while the constitutions for children are very full, and it often sounds here, and I am glad - no one wants the children to end up in institutional care, and there is a risk that the lack of foster parents that we all know about will only deepen and this lack will be shown. So I don't want to take children out of my family because of poor quality accommodation. I want a better and cheaper option, and that's just a reasonable social system that allows people who try to cope in some way with life's difficulties ahead of them. What is another very bad thing about the proposal, the withdrawal of benefits in the material need for housing and living for six months will also apply because of the failure to allow entry into the housing to control the quality of the housing. But you must please imagine the reality. The missing name tag on the bell or on the door is also considered not to be release. For this it is possible for six months according to the proposal, for six months, to withdraw support in material distress. So not only housing, but also living - food, basic needs. Thus, the so-called failure to allow access to dwellings because of the quality control of housing is completely destroyed, for example, for people with mental illness or for people who have been victims of crime. Why? Because many have different kinds of concerns, precisely as a result of illness or trauma, from what they have experienced, and some have experienced real persecution. I just want to point out that this is simply a situation where it is necessary to take into account that the disease is directly causing why, for example, the person concerned is unable to answer the bell. [[12.00 hours]] Third thing. The problem is that the proposal introduces a new, completely new incapacity for work, which will burden the practitioners completely unnecessary. Therefore, there is also a negative opinion from the practitioners, their associations, because they do not want to be burdened by another unnecessary administration. The proposal wants people who are not unemployed or employed to be only poor, and that can be seniors, people who are disabled, dependent on care, or caring for them, and parents who aren't unemployed or employed, so that they have to get their hands on disability at every rhyme. The opinion of the Association of Practice Physicians of the Czech Republic was received by all of you in an e-mail. I still have other points for which it is proposed to take half a year of help in the material need for housing and livelihood, but I want to stress: these things are important, there are about eight of them, but what I have just said is even more important, the drive of people into the arms of poor traders. The useless, very strict sanctions for not allowing entry into the dwelling, even if it is a victim of crime, are justified in fear of persecution, or have mental illness that causes concern for strangers. Is this why these people are supposed to end up on the street? Likewise, the new proposal for incapacity for work - an unnecessary burden for practitioners. So I want to highlight these three arguments at the start of the debate. Emphasize that we want higher pay to foster parents, that we want to discuss the law on social law protection for children, but we do not want to be blackmailed as a state by the previous proposal. We don't want to be hostages to the SPD proposal, unfortunately. A well - set system of benefits enables children not to be taken from their families for housing purposes. It allows them to remain in their families thanks to preventive services, support services. I was helping to collect signatures for the last meeting, i.e. the one concerning the foster parents, which unfortunately, of some parties in this House could not be completed, I am sorry. We were giving concrete suggestions on how to discuss a bill that would increase the remuneration of foster parents. Now, once again, I don't want foster parents to be taken hostage. I want us to discuss the law on the social protection of children, but at the same time, please, it is not possible to destroy the social system that we have, which takes care of the most vulnerable. Again, I stress, particularly those who are recognised as living with a severe illness, such as those who are fully or partially disabled, but are supported by a system of doses of material distress. In order to understand the scale of the problem, I would like you to imagine a specific story of a particular person who would be fundamentally negatively affected by the adoption of the law. How did I get this story? It's the story of a single girl named Magda who lives in a flat with mold. I got to him by being approached by social workers with helping organizations, having specific examples of people who are severely damaged by the suggestion that he is really ill-conceived and that no one is aware of the damage he will cause if he is accepted. I would dare to show you in that story the principles that I have described as harmful to the proposal. It is a specific story about the lady - of course the names are changed to be anonymous, but it fits, is real and takes place throughout the Czech Republic. Imagine young Mama Magda, 26 years old and has a four-year-old son, so at 22 she had a child, stayed alone with him and is a client of social services Field programs - helping people in social distress. It is provided by the Maltese aid organization, a generally beneficial society. Now, what's important. The nonprofit organization turned to me because they have long-term problems with the mother, the 26-year-old Magda, and they are working with her to get out of the debt trap, and they are helping her long-term to maintain a suitable home, of course, because she has a four-year-old son. I'm just going to stress that when a child gets to a children's home, the cost can be about CZK 77,000 a month for a stay in a child's home. Several-second support for such families, which represents housing benefits for such families, is simply much cheaper, which is much more effective. How does this particular story go? Mrs Magda managed to get bail from the foundation, but it was hard to find a suitable apartment to bribe and where the landlord wouldn't mind a small child. In this particular case, it helped that the lady was still receiving a parental contribution, and in late 2018, thanks to the help of the Maltese aid organization, she managed to find a suitable apartment, but only after what actually succeeded - and everyone was happy that it would turn out - so they found that the apartment is cooperative. And what does a cooperative apartment mean? That he is not eligible for a housing allowance from state social aid. So the client of the organization began to receive a dose of material emergency - housing supplements. The situation is very typical. In April 2019 the lady exhausted her parental allowance, now having a four-year-old son, is dependent on the benefits of a material emergency, which means that she receives an additional housing and a living allowance, but you have to imagine that her current income is about CZK 14,500, which is state aid, but the rent costs CZK 13,000. The lady is in debt, but at this level of market rent, she simply cannot resolve her situation. Of course, like I said, the organization is working with her to get rid of the debt trap. She is still at risk of leaving the apartment because the benefits of the material emergency are not paid regularly, and the owner of the apartment simply does not like the different payment dates, although the lady never owed the housing lease. Now, we've described the situation that's pretty typical, and we're here that there's mold in the apartment, but the owner of the apartment refuses to deal with it. If the submitted amendment from the SPD is approved, unfortunately, it is not an amendment on aid in material distress, but it is an amendment on the withdrawal of aid from such people. In this case, alone Magda would have simply taken away her housing fee or, in fear of control, the owner would have given her a sublet contract and she would have ended up with the child on the street, which leads to the removal of the child into institutional education. We've already said that a child in a children's home could cost CZK 77,000 a month. [[12.10 hours]] What is Magda's story, which - I stress - is real, concrete? It is about the fact that the employment authorities admit extra immediate assistance, the so-called MOP on housing bail, only randomly or at all. Rather, the foundation helps, but the support of the foundations is then removed from the housing allowance in the next period. For the pirát, we have therefore submitted a proposal to define the housing emergency and the ILO, an extraordinary immediate assistance for bail paid to the lessor in return. It is House document number 8408 and in the voting procedure it is letter E33. What else does Magda's story show? With a lease contract, it is not possible to apply for a housing allowance, but only up to 1.3 times the living minimum is eligible for a housing supplement. Why is that wrong? Families aren't motivated to increase their income because they're gonna lose their housing. That's why we're proposing to compare the legal degrees to housing for both of those benefits. Once again, this is House Document No 8406, the voting procedure for the letter E31. The admission of the housing allowance to the sublease will also allow the adoption of the proposal of the ČSSD in the House document number 6736, in the voting procedure under letter F2. And the last thing that shows Magda's story is that the landlords are unfortunately refusing to address the unsatisfactory quality of the apartments. Again - in the event of the adoption of the comprehensive amendment, which is House document 8404 - this will endanger family housing and the maintenance of children with their parents. What solution do we propose? Completely logical. After quality control, fine landlords who do not fix the apartment within the time limit set by the Labour Office. After all, landlords make careful documentation of the state of the apartments they deliver, they can prove if somewhere the tenant is to blame, but overall, the landlord is to be responsible for poor quality apartments. We don't want to fine those people who couldn't get anything else, we don't want to kneel to people who are trying to keep their lives and their family together in some way. Fines for landlords are designed in House document number 8411 and the voting procedure is the letters E36.2, E36.3, E36.4, E36.6, E36.7 and E36.8. The story of the lonely Magda, who is in the apartment with mold, told me Maltese aid, but many of you must have appeared in emails and other appeals. Fortunately, there are many helping organizations, many of my colleagues have also heard from them. These are specific people who are threatened by a proposal from the SPD, specific families who can raise their children when they have help with housing. And the point is, we don't want to chase children from poor families, from families where there may be complex problems of debt traps and so on, unnecessarily into foster care, and we don't want the family support option to bring this House down, and even more restrictions would lead to the removal of even more children from families. Please, I appeal and warn you, there has not yet been such a harmful proposal in this House, and the half-year for which the SPD wants to remove aid in material need not only for housing but also for living and for food is simply unprecedented. I believe that there will be a chance to address the really effective repression of those who abuse the situation of some people, to actually intervene against poverty traders, but not, as this proposal does, to expel people from the apartments directly into the arms of the owners of the residential hotels. I believe that you do not want this, and therefore you cannot want this proposal either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. Beautiful noon, ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, one organizational remark. I have been asked to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the manual, you have to sign off on leaving the hall in order to make things work, to fit the number of entries, and we have not had problematic votes about this. Mr Foldyna is now on the verdict, and then I should be next, but I believe that no one will object if I do not complicate the Presidency and move on to the end. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have listened to Mrs Richterová's speech. Of course, I was also impressed by the pathetic approach and the speech, however, because, unlike many, most, in the reality of confrontation with reality, I live today and daily - if Magda didn't have debts, she wouldn't be in trouble. I don't know where she got those debts, what she made them out of. I do not know why ten million citizens of the Czech Republic should be guarantor of various debts for telephones and for various things. I don't know why disabled people should be threatened if they're not breaking the law. This amendment talks about the sanctions, the half-year withdrawal, being violated by some standards. If someone isn't breaking standards, they have nothing to worry about. Unfortunately, I'm confronted every day with the reality of meeting this problem. Decin, this is a town in the north of Bohemia on the Elbe and everyone says - this is a beautiful city. Then come to Decin! Get off at 18 o'clock from the main railway station and walk out in front of the main railway station, in front of the Grand Hotel, and you think you fell into some village in eastern Slovakia. It's such a mess. The benefits of our humane policy are concentrated there, that you will be crossed by your eyes. And that it's a beautiful city, that the tourist who gets there by car from Germany, from Dresden, when he sees it, will put in a threesome and stop up behind Ústí nad Labem so he can get to Prague because he doesn't want to get off at our place. And really, if this law is talking about something here, it's just that it wants sanctions for those who violate standards that violate laws, not for disabled people as such. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u22	You're out of time, you can log in again. Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to my colleague, Foldyna. I mean, maybe that someone has debts, there's no reason for us to make him homeless, and that's what this law suggests. After all, we have hundreds of thousands of people with debts here, and often it wasn't even their fault. It's not possible to punish these people twice. He doesn't have any honey to live with, either, but he's still punishing them for being poor and making them homeless - I think it's totally antisocial. I understand that there are problems with the abuse of benefits, especially at the level of people taking benefits and working for it black. But let's do this by checking this out, let's put people on guarding typical buildings where they work black. [[12.20 hours]] But we can't just throw everyone else in the same bag, we can't throw in the same sack of disabled pensioners, single moms, seniors. This proposal puts a bunch of people in one bag, and a lot of people who don't deserve to get hurt are gonna get hurt because living in a bad place isn't a crime, as you say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Richterová's point of fact, then President Fiala wants to come forward, so I will give him the floor with priority rights. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u25	I am glad that my colleague, Mr Foldyna, listened to the story because it is a very real story, and I want to stress that these are the very changes that the SPD is introducing now. It is precisely that all families who live in and are on the border and beyond poverty, have children and are able to take care of children through state support, for housing in a not-so-quality apartment, such as an apartment with mold. I want to stress that all the specific things that the law introduces are for six months. Taking away everything for six months is something that's never been here. In previous discussions, I said that three months of elimination, which is happening today, is something - very hard, but still - to make a knock at the food bank - probably no one would want to eat from the food bank for three months. But no one can handle the six months you're proposing, and the single Magda, who's a real person with a real four-year-old son, will be threatened by your proposal just because she couldn't get an apartment other than a molded apartment. And this is the reality, this is the reality, that families with children who are poor are having a really hard time getting a place. And you guys are closing your eyes to the fact that instead of targeting people who aren't working directly, you're taking everybody away. And I just don't like that, which is why I'm going to point out which specific sections affect people with young children, people in debt, and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u26	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Foldyna's first. Before I give him my word, I'll introduce the House with a note. Mr Grospič is apologizing to us from the 114th and possibly 113th. meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 12.30 to the end of the meeting due to the adoption of the Chargé d'affaires of the Syrian Arab Republic to an inter-European group of friends. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for the floor. Look, I'll be specific. Yes, I rent apartments, renovated, and I rented one single-bedroom apartment up to CZK 4,000, renovated, 1 + 1 in Křešice, you can go there, there was already an agency. Reconstructed apartment. When she owed me 54,000, I quit her job. To this day, she hasn't paid me anything, I haven't applied anything to her... because I wouldn't have gotten anything. Where there's nothing, neither does death. And I'm so careful to rent an apartment to someone who acts like that! When these people start acting like people, and not like cattle in a lot of things, that they're gonna live in your apartment, or instead of raising their children to drugs, the world will be better, and if we threaten them in this way and they have some sanctions, they might start acting. If we don't do this, it's bad for the whole community of these people, for their kids, and for the result. So this law is not a bad law, it merely balances imperfect things that are negatively reflected here in the whole society. What about all the other tenants? What about all the other people who live decently and live decently in that town? Why shouldn't they live decently? Why do the prices of their apartments and properties fall because these people behave like this around them? The world is not pink or rainbow, it is very black and white. Come and see, I repeat, come to Děčín and take a walk. Come to North Bohemia and take a walk in that reality! You live here as a cotton in Prague, you don't know what you're talking about, you're just creating the impression of humanists! What about us? How about a million people in the Ústí Region who have to live in it from morning to evening! Every day? Mrs. Usti will tell you! I don't have to sleep there for one day, I just live there! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, so with a point of fact, now President Fiala. It withdraws, in that case, with Mrs Richterová's factual remark, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u29	I not only consider the situation in the Ústí Region to be one of the biggest challenges of our country. That's absolutely undeniable. I just don't want the cost to rise for the whole company, so that what you're proposing means that it's going to be even more expensive for everyone in the finals. Because the particular experience you described is from a completely different wound. That's from the recovery wound, and that's what it's like to figure out that when someone's capable of using the system in some way. That's perfectly okay, let's solve this, but I want to point out to you that, as the SPD proposal is written, it throws even bigger problems. For example, and this was a pretty typical example for me, a woman who was quite young, twenty-two is still quite early, child. The partner has left, she's left alone, she has debts at the same time, and in this situation where she hasn't been able to find a place to live, she's depending on what housing she's gonna find. And you're proposing a proposal that's exactly the kind of group you don't want, but it's gonna blow them away anyway. And that's what bothers me is that you're throwing together, and instead of enforcing what's already true, and instead of trying to hit holes in the system that are, you've written a very broad proposal that affects many groups of people, whether they're singles in difficult situations or people with mental illness, and that there are tens of thousands of them. That's not a lot of people. The trouble for me is that you put tens of thousands of these people at risk because you don't know what to do with the situation in your Ústí Region, but that's not the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u30	I will ask that we address ourselves, if necessary, through me, and now, with the factual remark of Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just very briefly to my colleague, Foldyn. Your example is rhetorically nice, but it doesn't really apply to this law. The law does something completely different. The law says whoever lives in the wrong apartment loses their benefits and can go somewhere to the hostel, because the hostels didn't happen to get into the proposal, so someone here is recording some other poor businessman. This is one thing, and second of all, the law doesn't concern you if someone doesn't pay you rent. It concerns when a person pays his rent properly, but the apartment is poor, and instead of dealing with the landlord, the person who is hard to find a place to live is being dealt with. I really ask that we discuss the content of the proposal that we have before us, and we do not overwhelm each other with life stories, which I recognise are of course alarming, but do not concern the material at all. [[12.30 hours]] And since we have 12.30 and there is really little time left for us to discuss foster parents, I am giving a procedural proposal to remove all points from this meeting so that we can actually discuss foster parents, which we will only be able to do, because there are some 75 votes, a debate has not yet been concluded. Definitely like the pirát, we won't delay the debate - foster parents. I therefore ask the vote on this proposal and, above all, for the resignation of all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u32	I've noticed the procedural proposal. Mrs Hyťhová is next with a point of fact, but first we must deal with this procedural proposal. So I'm going to ask everyone to log out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. When we get the check-out... I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. Vice-President Okamura wants a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u33	Mr Vice-President, I wanted to ask you in the context of some fairness, because the gong cannot be heard, as we know, as in our original hall, allow a moment for Members to gather in sufficient numbers. I'm not asking for a minute's break. It is fair, we also have a Member here, as we know, who is disabled, and everyone should have the opportunity, I have been asked in the past to give more room for all Members who would like to take part in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u34	Mr Vice-President, I'm sure I'll give room for everyone to come. After all, there are only 40 Members who are enrolled at the moment, and we cannot vote or vote. Member Černochová with priority rights for the ODS club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Since we are actually in other areas, the club is completely in different real estate, some colleagues have left to handle the agenda at the club, please take a break for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u36	There is a request for us to vote at 12.40. I want to ask if anyone is against this procedure? I don't see anybody, so I'll give you until 12:40 so everyone can gather.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u37	The honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, is 12.40, so the time has passed for us to gather together in sufficient numbers and to vote. However, according to the registration device, there is not a sufficient number of us present at the moment, so I will ask you to sign in. But it looks like there's been an increase in new... However, if the number of entries doesn't reach the required concession... So, in that case, we could vote. [[71 Members are currently present.]] However, I was also warned by the Organising Committee that such a proposal would be very out of the ordinary. Mr Ferjenčík wants to clarify his proposal, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the information that it is not clear whether it is possible to remove a proposal from the agenda for an extraordinary meeting, I will modify my motion for a resolution, namely that, first, the Chamber of Deputies is reviewing its previous resolution on the fact that the 113rd meeting will be suspended until the end of the 114th meeting, and further interrupting the 114th meeting until the end of the 113th meeting. I am giving this simple proposal, which will allow first to vote on foster homes, which is the consensual press that this entire House wants, we have only an hour twenty to catch the 75 votes that are there. I am of the opinion that we will no longer be speaking for the pirát in the debate, and we will certainly not use this to sharpen this point. And when this consensual press is discussed, we can continue with a material emergency. So that's how I'm adjusting my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, I'm sure this proposal is voteable. Vice-President Okamura wants a counter-proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u40	Well, I'd like to translate a little bit of what Mr. Pirates Mikuláš Ferjenčík said into understandable speech. Consensually, most of the House wants to put an end to the abuse of ill-adaptable doses and, at the same time, we want to increase the remuneration of foster parents. Because the pirát are blocking this place, we are now in a situation where there is a risk that neither the end of the abuse will pass through the inadaptable, nor the financial increase in the remuneration of foster parents who often take care of disabled children dependent on the care of others, which is much more difficult to do, not only financially than the care of a healthy child. So the pirát are blocking this place right now, and I just want to point out that if we don't back up the strong performance of foster care, the number of abandoned and endangered children placed in institutional care will increase in the future. So once again, the state that is here now, let us all hear it - the pirates are blocking at the same time two important laws, first of all, the end of the abuse of inadaptable doses, that's what you've been blocking for two months, and now you've been doing it for a long time, instead of allowing you to vote, you've got your amendments there, we democratically voted it out, so you don't recognize democracy here. We can also vote on your amendments and either you get support or you don't, that's democracy. At the same time, you're also blocking foster support. This is clearly and clearly stated in the current situation. So now, if you continue to block the vote to end the abuse of ill-adaptable doses, you're also blocking the increase in foster benefits. That's the state that's here today. It's all because of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u41	Mr Vice-President, there was no procedural counterproposal in your speech. A colleague of Lipavský with priority rights has yet to report... He's not interested. In that case, we can proceed to the vote of Mr Ferjenčík's procedural proposal, which suggests that we interrupt this meeting - if I simply say so - until the 113th meeting. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 6, there are 100 Members, for 32, against 26. The motion was not accepted. So we should continue the debate, however, I was first informed by President Chvojka with priority rights, then I see Mr Lipavský, then we would eventually return to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I feel that the 14th hour, which is the limit of today's negotiations, is slowly approaching and that we do not have a chance to make those two points, so please, after consulting the legislation, and I suggest - no matter what the meeting is - that we negotiate and vote on the laws of all those who are at third reading today, even after 14 o'clock. However, I confess that I don't know how to possibly get out of the situation we have here. If we have an MEP's club here - and now I do not evaluate whether it is a good thing or a bad thing - a group of Members who veto or in some way do not want a material emergency to be voted on and at the same time want the OSPOD to vote, I do not know how to get out of it. If there's a material emergency blocked, then do the OSPOD... So basically, it's up to you, as we agree, it's about some kind of agreement, I don't know if the House of this agreement is capable of right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u43	There is therefore a proposal to reserve additional time for third reading after 14 o'clock, both for 113th and 114th meetings, if I have noted this well. A colleague of Lipavský will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If the proposal has been made, because I did not understand it precisely, to discuss outside the reserved time according to the Rules of Procedure, I give the veto on this proposal on behalf of the Pirates, STAN, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. It's the press we're discussing now, but you made the proposal in general. If it were formulated differently, I believe we can come up with a solution for those foster parents to discuss. We designed it here an hour ago, we designed it now. I'd appreciate it if the SPD and YES somehow went to their foster homes and let them discuss it. Of course, we can meet here over and over again in the summer, but the situation is quite clear. [[The noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. So now there are priority rights. First Mrs Černochová, then President Fiala, then Vice-President Okamura, then Vice-President Filip... [[Incomprehensible, this is Mrs Černochová speaking.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u46	Well, I don't know if I fully understood what vetoes the Pirates and STAN Club, but anyway, we think that third reading shouldn't be discussed at all after 14 o'clock. So unless it sounded clear from the Vice-President of the Lipavsky Club, I'm raising a veto on behalf of three clubs, civil democrats, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u47	Any third reading session after 14 o'clock. Okay, I understand, I think that's settled. So now Chairman Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u48	For the SPD movement, I have to say, we're ready to be here. We're ready to be here for foster homes to help them. I think that's what they're waiting for, that everyone here in front of me said, including the pirát, that they won't block anything, and now they don't want to work after 14 o'clock to negotiate those laws. So I'm backing up on it, and I'm telling the SPD that we're happy to be here, support it, and we want to bring the law to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. I'm gaining priority rights here. Now Vice-President Okamura, then Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u50	Yes, the condition is exactly like that. Today, the House according to its Rules of Procedure - we can vote on the third reading after 14 o'clock. It's not gonna work if it's vetoed by two clubs. So, yes, we, the SPD, are prepared to be here until midnight to raise the money to the foster parents while ending the abuse with further inadaptable. Of course, the pirates want to work on Wednesdays only within 14 hours. That's why they're actually proposing with some others here, but this is about the pirát, so they're suggesting that the MPs go home on Wednesday at 2:00 p.m. We want to work. And they're turning it around, and they're lying that they're saying that they're still blaming other people for not wanting to raise money to their foster parents. Well, that's incredible what I'm hearing here! We here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ferjenčík for the pirát, through Mr President, can be here by midnight, I tell you again, we can. It is precisely according to the Rules of Procedure. So don't stop the Members' work at 2:00, don't block it. I know the pirát obviously want to go home tonight, which is why you want to block it at 2:00, you want to go home, well, now we're gonna vote on it. So we'll see -- or we won't, because you put a veto on it. That means, we say again, let's discuss the law on material distress, it's exactly in the order that was determined by the President of the House. There were three social laws, and since 11 there has been a material emergency, it is true that if we negotiate a material emergency, we will continuously follow up by raising foster parents, exactly as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We can negotiate till midnight tonight. It's not a problem. You have the opportunity now to download your veto, the chairmen of the MPs can go to the microphone, pull the veto and let's work normally until midnight. And today they can, and I stress again, both increased money by foster parents, so we can end the abuse of unadaptable doses, which will bring half a billion crowns into the state budget. And it's only on the pirát if they block it now, or both of the designs will pass today. You're blocking it so far. You're talking endlessly on the same subject, we've already had a third reading of the law to end the abuse of doses inadaptable. So because of you, everything's blocked here now, and because of you, if this meeting ends at 2:00 p.m., the pirát aren't gonna be increased foster money, or we're not gonna end the abuse of inadaptable doses. It's just about the Pirate Party, because of your neomarxist program, I'd say an extremist program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u51	For factual reasons, I will point out that this cannot be due to a single club, the veto at the meeting after 14 o'clock was presented by the Pirates, STAN, ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. We'll continue with the priority rights. Now Vice-President Filip, then Minister Maláčová, then Mr Lipavský, then another.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, the provisions on voting on Wednesdays and Fridays arose in a situation where it was 100/100 here, and then Mirek Topolánek's government, in order to secure its Members and two defectors from social democracy, proposed a change in the Rules of Procedure, with the need for it to be advantageous for us to concentrate on the third reading for those two days, we did not block the interpelration, we did not block ministers on foreign trips, including the European Council and so on, and we came out to meet. Blocking two clubs is a classic provision for a minority in the Chamber of Deputies in order to be able to resolve some of the issues, and it is usually negotiated afterwards. What happened during this parliamentary term has no precedent in the practice of the Chamber of Deputies. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, or social democracy, to be exact, even in the time of Nečasův' government, when religious restitution was discussed, did not use such a thing. You are using this - a procedural proposal to address your political priorities without being willing to admit that you are afraid of responsibility for the outcome of the vote. It's pathetic of you, the whole election period for two clubs to block the vote after 14 o'clock, but it's convenient for you, because your tactics in 2018 came in simply - the less the government pushes through, the more you can swear at the government that they didn't make it. I understand that. That's a politically legitimate attitude, but you don't say it out loud. You don't say it out loud! You're hiding behind quite the procedural proposals, and you're saying you won't allow it. So don't admit it, but accept your responsibility for not accepting the law you want. It is your responsibility, your responsibility politically, not procedurally, it is a substantive decision that you have made here. It's really pathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. I have been warned that we are already in the debate, so I apologise to those who have applied for factual remarks that should take precedence at this point. Now therefore, Mrs Hyťhová, who has been applying for a long time, then with Mr Ferjenčík in fact, then Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President, and I would like you to follow the Rules of Procedure of the House next time, because I had priority even a moment ago. It doesn't matter. I'll follow up on the debate. I wanted to express myself here towards the Pirate Club, because the lies I hear here, that's really incredible, Mr. Ferjenčík, you're sitting here in front of me. I've said it here before, it's the same thing you say over and over again. You say - I know how it is there in the Ústí Region. And I'm telling you, you don't know, because if you did, you don't perform here today with such lies and such nonsense as you say. Stop lying and make it up! The last time you admitted to this place, you admitted on the microphone in the House that these people want to work, that they just don't have a choice. And I'm telling you you're lying! They have a chance to work, but they don't want to work. You don't want to understand, and you're making a big mistake. If you think this is gonna get you voters in the Ústí Region, you're completely wrong. There are people angry, outraged, angry, and you're just putting them up to it because you're taking their money. Of all the taxpayers, this money goes to people who don't want to work. Admit it already! Come here on the microphone and say: We encourage these people not to want to work. Come here, say it straight, and stop fucking around, 'cause you're telling lies and nonsense. I had to get on with it. I'm from Ústí Region, I live in Ústí nad Labem next to Předlic, I go there every day. If you come there once a week for coffee, you can come by the precincts when you're around 'cause I go there every day. And I'm telling you, these people don't want to work. They don't want to! They abuse social welfare, and you encourage them to do so. That's right! And I hope that the citizens are watching it, and that's how they decide in the election. Shame on you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u55	Then I'll ask you to address us through me. Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Pastuchová, then Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would first like to respond to my colleague Okamura. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that democracy is also about the fact that a minority can make its arguments. And if we have two proposals here, one of which is consensual across the House and one is not consensual across the House, you certainly cannot blame the minority who makes their arguments about this non-unsensual for blocking the other. We suggested that the foster parents discuss it first, you denied it, so don't throw it at us. First of all. Secondly, to Mrs Hyťhová, through Mr President. You guys are throwing them all together. You throw in the same bag people who don't want to work and could and could throw in the same bag single mothers, people with mental illness, disabled pensioners, and you don't give a damn because you think this will bring you votes. But I'm not here to get as many votes as we can in an election at any cost, I'm here to keep people out of the bag so we can figure out if the proposals we're gonna approve, not just the one group you're targeting on billboards, you're writing with exclamation marks, they're not gonna přizpůsobivý, but how they're gonna end up with single mothers, disabled pensioners, people with mental illness, and that's important, and we're gonna defend these people here, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, as Chair of the Social Committee and as a member of the ANO Club, I also have to comment on what is going on here. An extraordinary meeting has been convened, and we should have voted on the Houses of thousands of Social Committees. I'm a little sorry about the ODS position right now, because when Mr Bauer's 'three times and enough' law was passed here, we all wanted the law to be passed, and we gave it our time. And this novel, where we are signed across the political spectrum - you're wrong, Mr. Ambassador, that... maybe you're the only ones who don't want it. There's a consensus across the political spectrum, we want to discuss it, and you've been blocking this law for several meetings. First it was Mr. Bauer's 200th, now it's this law. So don't give... We'll be sitting here for the YES movement until midnight, too. We don't mind. We want to support foster parents. We want to approve the social-legal protection of children. So it's really about you now, because when we take the minutes of the previous meetings, you read us the letters of the Ombudsman three times, we all knew them almost by heart, so please don't tell us that you're not here. You're sharpening it! And those foster parents aren't gonna get money for the pirát!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u58	Let's keep going. Now, Mr Chvojka. I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mr Farský apologizes from part of the sitting from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u59	Thank you again for the floor. I'm sad about one thing. See if you can find any logic in that. I'm the one who signed the request for an emergency meeting to take place today, the signatures were probably around 50. The proponents of the proposal, logically, because we're only 14, weren't only Social Democrats, but there were also some members of the movement and club YES, Pirates, people, I suspect people from STAN and from everywhere else where it was possible. I guess it wasn't just the ODS colleagues and the Communists, but it wasn't because they didn't agree to it, but they weren't already present in the House. And those same colleagues, or in the words of their club presidents or club leaders, today, those who have called together, who have indicated that they want to discuss the three important points, that is, children's groups, foster parents and long-term infirmary that have passed, so they are also giving the veto to discuss today after 14 o'clock. I don't understand. I understand you have a problem with material distress. I also have a problem with her, and I will not vote for her, but at the same time I think that he was right about this President Filip, that it is simply impossible to block the House's course just because I do not have votes for some things, and I will not allow the points that I actually want to discuss, because after all, I have called for the proper meeting. So please, let's be logical. Let's go, please, now please, those club representatives who put in the veto and at the same time signed a request for an emergency meeting, please withdraw it. We're also ready for social democracy to be here - everyone says midnight, but I think it would have happened sooner. But we're just ready to be here as long as it's not approved. And I think we all get a lot of emails every day, especially with foster parents. And if we leave today at 2:00 just because we don't like any other law, I think it's a little sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now Mr Lipavský, then Vice-President Okamura - factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u61	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna go back to discussing the order in which we're supposed to discuss these things. It is perfectly logical that, when the House meets particularly in the middle of summer, it should discuss a matter that is consensual, on which is the agreement that was included in the meeting this morning. We discussed it, we knew from the start that there were 70 amendments that we would have to vote on. Of course, it's a shame that only two hours were reserved for that first meeting. It would make sense to reserve more time. That's probably a question for President Vondráček, who called it that way, he could have done it differently. But it's completely absurd for the SPD to take foster parents hostage and then blame it on us. Let's not be fooled. The SPD just does everything to make people feel worse, and then they like to listen to the different radical speeches that they regularly supply us with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Okamura, then Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u63	Another time has passed again and I repeat that due to the obstructions of the Pirates and the veto of ODS, KDU-ČSL and STAN, we are in danger of raising funds to foster parents. I would just like to remind you that we should vote on the SPD proposal submitted by our Member, Lucie Šafránková, on the significant increase in the remuneration of foster parents, who are currently in short supply in our country, and their condition is worse every year. The number of foster parents has long fallen and the number of new foster care applicants has fallen. That is why our bill, which we want to vote on, is here to take financial account of and support foster families, and, in particular, many of them care for disabled children dependent on the care of others. So again, I appeal to the Pirates, STAN, ODS and KDU-ČSL to withdraw their vetoes so that we can act after 2:00 p.m. We want the SPD to vote on this proposal. We've been working on this novel right here. We want this to be discussed. Our proposal is here, we need to have a vote on it, and at the same time there is a proposal to end the abuse of doses that is inadaptable. Mr. MP for Pirates Ferjenčík here said that they don't put all the people in the same sack. Well, we know that. After all, your President Ivan Bartoš said, quoting Prima, that he wouldn't mind if Europe was Muslim in 15 to 20 years. So we know you guys aren't all in the same bag. That is why they consider you an extremist party and we will do everything we can to ensure that you are never in government, because we simply do not want Europe to be Muslim in 15 to 20 years, as your President Ivan Bartoš approves and advocates. And that he then made excuses that it was some kind of boyish expression, it wasn't, because relatively recently he actively participated in the demonstration "Fugitives, welcome to the Czech Republic!"so, on the contrary, it is a consistent view of the pirát. Please stop blocking it, so we can raise the money to the foster parents and end the abuse of unadaptable doses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u64	With another remark, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will speak. I would just ask everyone to try to stick to this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you to really start working. We voted for two laws, but unfortunately, because of what's going on here, I think we all understand what's going on here. There is simply a campaign for the election, it is necessary to say our opinion and our position, and the fact that we started another extraordinary meeting from 11 o'clock, unfortunately, has a problem mainly from the pirates. I'm really sorry about the ODS, because we had an agreement that the ODS would actually also deal with the SPD amendment on material distress, because more or less we supported the ODS amendment. And I'm very sorry that the only thing that's showing up here is that the pirát are afraid that this novel is going to pass, they fundamentally disagree, and they're just attacking. In the meantime, it was the law on social-law protection for children that could be negotiated, where, of course, some of us are also afraid to pass your pirate proposals and Mr Čižinský's colleague. From where there are things on the other side that we know are needed in the field. So I'd just like to ask you, I think an hour for at least one law would be. We already know that we're about to have another special meeting, and really, don't make a fool of it! Because if these people are watching it today, it's just a disgrace and a dehoness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hear that my colleague Aulická Jírovcová is ready to support the rapid discussion of foster parents, so again I suggest that we interrupt this meeting until the 113. meetings so we can vote those foster parents. I think that's how we can make it, so I'm making this proposal. Please log out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u68	I'm gonna ask you to repeat, because I've been dealing with the secretary here. I'd like to repeat the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u69	How by analogy to the previous one - to revise the House's previous resolution, to interrupt this meeting until the end of the 113rd meeting, the Child Welfare Act, to vote for foster parents, and then we can return to material need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u70	I hear the proposal, but we have already voted on such a proposal. [[Ferjenčík: But in another time!]] It was voted at a different time, that's true. So... [[Several reactions in the room.]] [[13.10 hours]] I'm willing to vote on it, but if anyone objects, of course...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u71	In order not to dispute that this proposal is voteable, I suggest we interrupt this meeting by 2:00 p.m., the rest of these proposals are valid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u72	Abort this meeting within 14 hours and then resume at the same time. [[Gong.]] I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. [[Gong.]] Mr Ferjenčík wants to be more precise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u73	Colleagues are asking how exactly the proposal is formulated, so I'm going to repeat it. I propose revocating the resolution that 113 is interrupted until the end of 114, first of all. Second, interrupt 114 until 14.00, and third, pick up 113 now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u74	I understand, and I've called my colleagues into the O.R. again. Then there is the question of whether he can propose a revision of the Member who did not vote for the original proposal. Vice-President Filip on the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u75	If anyone is interested in voting, then let someone who voted the other way than colleague Ferjenčík, because he does not have the legitimacy to put forward the proposal, vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u76	Yes. There is this reservation, Minister Maláčová reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u77	I beg you, please, somebody suggest it. Let's support this and let's make a deal, because this is crazy. Let's vote for the OSPOD, and then let's hit the novel, the material emergency, and let's be here by midnight. It's an incredible theater. We've been discussing laws here for a year, and no result. Some of you have been very hard on me for collecting signatures for this extraordinary meeting. And what's the result? There won't be a vote again. So I'm begging you, let's finally make a deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u78	There is a call for someone who has voted in favour of the original proposal proposed by Mr Ferjenčík to revise the proposal. I don't see anybody like that, so the proposal will probably be unvoting. [[Voices from the diaper.]] We will therefore continue the debate. I now have here, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to two colleagues, Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who mentioned a change in the ODS position. That's not true. The ODS supported the inclusion of this item in the meeting, ready to vote in terms of the agreement. Many of our colleagues signed up for the proposal. We are also prepared to vote on proposals relating to the OSPOD. We also voted in favour of my colleague Ferjenčík's proposal to put it forward so that we can vote both options ideally today, but it was considered that there is a majority consensus on one, on the other there is a minority consensus, but I firmly believe that under this proposal there was enough signatures to pass the proposal. So don't really train the ODS here for changing some attitude. The ODS has not changed any position and we are simply following the rules of procedure, which is the law for us! [[In an elevated voice.]] If there's no law for you, there's a law for us! And in the Rules of Procedure, two days, Wednesday and Friday, from 9 to 14 o'clock are reserved for the third reading! Do not change the rules two months before the elections and indeed, the citizens' Democrats want to support both proposals, so come to an agreement as it will be, and you will see that we will vote in favour! But don't take us in your mouth here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Čižinský, then Mr Lipavský, then Minister Maláčová, then another. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. This is where he fences himself with what he's responsible for. I would like to say that - first of all - the first meeting since 9 o'clock was convened simply for too short a time. Nobody's done any construction around here, and the program hasn't been able to discuss it. She should have been summoned for a long time, we wouldn't have solved this problem. And if anyone says there's someone here who's responsible for not raising themselves to foster parents, then it needs to be said that they're the ones who are now taking foster parents hostages as hostages, they've refused to assign that point many times. And if it compares with preventing babies from getting into institutions, it compares with unconstitutional restrictions on access to livelihoods, so I guess I don't really have a word for it, because here it's just a matter of making sure that babies don't carry a whole life of disability that they get in an institution with a brown election card.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. Mr Lipavský, Minister Maláčová has now withdrawn her factual comment, so then Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u83	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I think it's becoming clear that we're not going to discuss either of those two laws, the veto has been made. And I have to take a hard look at the total nonsense that came from Tomio Okamura, the SPD, that maybe the pirát are to blame for something. We have 500 points that we didn't discuss at this meeting. Most of them fall under the table. 500 different points, you can inject into that long list of meetings on any proposal. And we know that only on a narrow part of them can we agree as a whole political spectrum. Take one controversial point - I understand it's an election campaign, you just want to show up in front of the voters, two minutes of hatred of the inadaptable and so on. That's what this is all about. And then there's a very specific thing that helps, we all agree on it, but now it falls under the table. Let's see if we can still meet. We should get together and we should vote for the law, but what happened here today is a real shame, and it goes mainly for the SPD and also for the YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. Now Mr Kaňkovský, then Mr Novák, factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u85	I would like to respond briefly to the discussion that was here, both to Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and to Tomio Okamura and others. We here this morning for KDU-ČSL made it clear that the priority points of the first meeting were for us and I follow up on my colleague Čižinský - it was clear that in two hours the three laws were in the third reading... that we were unable to vote here. We made it clear. There was a procedural proposal that we return to the social protection of children at 12.30. Who blocked this step? It was SPD, YES, KSČM and others. And now you're saying in flames how much you care about child welfare, how much you want to increase the pay for foster parents. Then why didn't you vote for it? At this point, we could have been halfway through the voting procedure, and we could have had the law on social law protecting children, basically, halfway through, but you blocked it. And now you're gonna say how much you care. It's not fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. Now, Mr Novák, then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor. Just for yourself. We definitely care about the 911 press, the social-legal protection of children. And since I am the rapporteur, I know how much work everyone has done in the press and how we have been able to do with some or others, for example, from the Pirate Party, we have not been able to agree on some amendments that, for example, thanks to some amendments, we have not been able to approve this law responsibly at the first reading. So, please, let's all go inside each other who literally stuffed in there that day, another word can't actually be used, that we weren't even able to do the appropriate procedure, and we had to return it to second reading. So, please, let's get into each other, who's been knocked over, for example, through Mr President, Mrs Richterová, thank you. As rapporteur for the press, thank you. [[13.20 hours]] Regarding print 652, at first reading was blocked by pirát, at second reading was blocked by pirát and at two third readings was blocked by pirát. Did they take your lollipop? Can't you make a pussy? Okay, we get it, but the 652 press meeting was called for 11 o'clock. She started at 11 o'clock and was supposed to continue until the press discussed. And if it bothers you and you're gonna be here again, you're gonna be okay with it. But we made it clear that after the 652 press, we are immediately ready to go to print 911 and vote. So what's wrong with that? You don't like the fact that you feel like you don't have to win, so you don't get into the race, and you're gonna break everybody else's legs so the race doesn't happen? Well, that's a fair game, thanks! Hail the Pirates!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u88	I wish you a good afternoon, and now factual remarks. I will read the order to get an overview: first Olga Richterová, next Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Jana Černochová, Jan Bartošek. That's the order of actual remarks now. I'll be the first to request a performance by Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u89	I'm just quoting what the previous speaker, Mr. Novák, said. He said: "After the press, 652 will be 911, that is, foster parents. " After printing 652. You're deliberately taking foster parents as hostages, as a living shield. [[Protests from members YES and SPD.]] You, SPD, YES, KSČM, have blocked the return to the foster negotiations. You, ANO, you, who run this House, have only given two hours to discuss three important laws. That was your decision, Mr President of this House, through Mr President, to give just two hours, and right from eleven, you will include controversial press on material distress. Controversial because it threatens tens of thousands of people who are not responsible, they are just sick and have a disability pension without pay or with a very low paycheck. We're defending them because it's unfair for your pre-election populist effort to put on billboards, not to drive people into the dormitories, to a shop with inadaptables, as you call it. We're defending those who get it wrong, and now we're in a situation where you take foster parents as a living shield, you don't want to talk about giving just two hours to discuss three important laws, and that because of you, because of YES, SPD, and KSČM, the foster parents are still waiting. This is the bare truth, and I want everyone to know that we have repeatedly suggested that the House discussing foster homes. I personally suggested printing 911, many times we wanted it to be discussed on time. We are foster parents, but at the same time we are opposed to the collapse of the Czech social system as we know it, and that is simply a principle that I will not move from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u90	Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, will now make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Yours directly to your previous speaker, Mrs. Richterová. You answered your own question because you just said here that you're not for the law on material distress, but the people who tell us that we've blocked it, it's not true. Only the discussion that's going on here has blocked it. If--I was talking about how we could be democratic and that we could express our views on both laws. This means that we could, and I just said that we were worried about the Child Welfare Act, that you have your proposals there, which we really do not agree with. You've got the same thing in a material emergency. You've got the same thing as the pirát. But it's about democracy, the negotiation. And unfortunately, that doesn't suit the pirát, and they represent what's happening here - that socio-legal protection of children does, but not a material emergency. So if you cared about the democratism that we're talking about right now, we could have discussed a material emergency here, and we could have voted long ago on the social-legal protection of children, that is, we would have solved the fact that it would have joined the foster family and that it would have joined, of course, the ZDVOPs, the other amendments would have been resolved and we would have known the final positions. But instead, it was just a game of time and to block the material emergency! That's all!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u92	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now speak on the point of fact and prepare Jana Černochová. Next is the order: Jan Bartošek, Vojtěch Filip, Jaroslav Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to a colleague, through you. So let's see how the hearing went, because it's a little different. Most of all, Mr Okamura, who brought up the pandemic law to the debate on children's groups, killed about 20 minutes. So it was 20 minutes before it could be foster parents. Here Mr Okamura pulled a completely unrelated item that was not on the agenda at all. Well, that was the first obstruction. And then he's here about ten times with completely unrelated comments that have nothing to do with what we're dealing with. So far, only one Member or one Member has spoken for our club and the Mayors' Club in the debate on this point. So far, no one else has gotten to the floor because you guys are starting some kind of procedural debate. However, we only suggested that the foster parents vote first. That was all we wanted. Mr. Okamura took everything else for us, and he's attacking us because of it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u94	As President, I can't respond to you, but after listening to you, it doesn't make sense anyway, I've already said it. So now, Mrs Jana Černochová, please, your two minutes, and Jan Bartošek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. I don't know if this proposal will be constructive or not, consider it yourself, but we all know you have another special meeting here on Friday. Perhaps we could make some kind of agreement between the presidents or the deputy club presidents that we would discuss foster parents that Friday, because there really is an absolute agreement on them. Today, even if we were to argue again in advance, we will not be able to make it, but we have a few points there on Friday, but I checked with the Vice-President that it is possible, if there are extraordinary meetings, that it is possible to complete those extraordinary meetings at another extraordinary meeting, that it is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure. So please, let's calm our emotions, we all want to help our foster parents. Let's consider this proposal and come here on Friday to vote on what's a match here. I would also argue that we should vote on this point, but I understand that part of our fellow Members in this House have a problem with it, so let's prove that we really, as the Chamber of Deputies, were serious about the proposal, the obsessive proposal, and let's all mean it, and let's do it on Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u96	Mr Jan Bartošek will now make a point of fact and the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. Anyone who knows the reality of the Chamber of Deputies knows that today's first extraordinary meeting had enough nourishing points that if we were to devote ourselves to them, we would have had enough within 14 hours to discuss it and vote. That's the reality. When you bring your signatures to an emergency meeting, it's up to the House President how they rank the meetings. This meeting was possible 10 minutes after the previous points were discussed and we could continue to discuss the SPD point. What we are witnessing today looks more like a pre-election courtship between the ANO and the SPD, where it is admirable how they meet each other, seek agreement and support each other. What I find very strange about this is that the YES movement has decided to put the parliamentary proposal before the government's proposal for social-legal protection of children. Anyone who's been in the coalition, you know that government points are being discussed primarily, and I think that's on purpose. For the purpose of the ANO movement, which decided to block this meaningful point, which decided, as repeatedly, to punish social democracy even at the cost of not discussing the Government's bill and meeting the SPD. This means - what we see here is possible only foreplay of what will happen after the autumn elections, that the YES movement, as you can see, can find common ground with the SPD, which is not a good message for democracy and freedom in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u98	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now appear and prepare Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Madam and Gentlemen. Well, simply, let's go back to the Rules of Procedure, which was operated on by my colleague, Mrs Černochová. We have a debate at first reading of the general, where it is said why we are adopting the law, then we have a general and detailed debate at second reading, and while there is a debate at third reading, there are only legislative technical proposals and adjustments, where appropriate, of effectiveness. But we are having a debate here at third reading, as if we were in the debate at first reading or at second reading. This is the mistake, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, that a third reading debate is being held here, because some think that it is better not to decide, or they are afraid of that decision. So I'm telling those who are afraid of this decision: let's not discuss and we'll have both meetings within 14 hours, because the discussion has taken place several times. And I'm really sick of repeating your stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u100	He will now make a point of fact... I'm going to read the order of factual remarks, because now we've got a lot of stuff going on here, so Jaroslav Foldyna, Jaroslav Holík, Jan Lipavský, Olga Richterová, so now even Mikuláš Ferjenčík. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes and Mr. Jaroslav Holík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u101	Thank you for the floor. I've heard here several times that someone is taking someone hostage. I think that if you don't want to and do much to defend yourself - pirát and STAN, and some of you - you're resisting the adoption of the social emergency law, then I'll tell you who you're taking hostages: 900,000 decent people in the Ústí Region and 1,200,000 people in the North Moravian Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, who, on these laws, will regulate the use of material benefits and the abuse of them, are waiting for it both for mercy, because these two regions have become a waste bin for the problems of the whole republic. You don't want to deal with it, you guys are telling such God-like things, like that someone did something and that person over there that you heard and debts. None of the people in the whole republic, out of the ten million decent people, have made those debts to those people who don't know how to behave, who don't want to behave differently, and who would only act differently if there was a law in force. And you don't want him to pay for the mess that's in our county and North Moravian Region, that's Moravian-Silesian, as it is said today, to live on in his own way so that those 900,000 people in the Ústí Region still have a problem with the inadaptables, with junkies who hang out and live out of their hands, hang out in front of the railway stations and the streets of our cities - that's okay with you. You're just stalling. I would like to say to Mr Bartošek, through Mr President, stop worrying about democracy when you are talking about SPD and YES. First of all, you're worried it wouldn't work out for you. [[Laughter and applause from part of the hall.]] And I think that's more worried than democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u102	Now I'll read the apology. Mr František Vácha apologizes today between 13:30 and 14:00 for personal reasons. Mr Jaroslav Holík will now speak on the point of fact and prepare Jan Lipavský. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues. I'll do a little bit of summary. We started at 9 o'clock, and we went over the basics more or less by 11 o'clock. And now, through Mr President, I will turn to my colleague Ferjenčík. You've been here for 20 minutes, but that colleague Richterová has been talking for an hour and she's stalling other laws, that's okay with no one. More or less recently, we are still abstaining from the Pirates, mostly colleague Ferjenčík, through the President, you and your sister. I confess, I'm ashamed that an extraordinary meeting has been held here, and instead of working, we're not doing anything. So let's stop fighting and get to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u104	Mr Jan Lipavský will now appear and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u105	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, great pearls are really falling here. Perhaps there is no point in responding to Mr Foldyna's speech. Apparently, I'm judging you when they're talking about the troughs and the interests of why people do politics. I would like to stand up for my colleagues, Mr Bartošek's absent colleague, here. I think we should have a certain level of how we act in this House. But the reason I wanted to perform is to respond to Vice-President Vojtěch Filip when he spoke about what the third reading is about. Please note that only after the end of the second reading do we know all the amendments tabled to the law, which means that at the third reading we are talking about a completely different text, theoretically completely different text from the one submitted by the government, by the group of Members, by the Senate, in the region to the Chamber of Deputies, and it is perfectly legitimate for us to have this debate, and if there are proposals that need to be discussed there, then the scope for discussion should be and should be sufficient. And I think that's part of the argument that was kind of missing from your speech. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u106	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear, Olga Richterová and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Still factual points. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to my colleague, Foldyna, and his statements about the hostages, because it's a little different. You're trying to trick these people. You're pretending your proposal solves problems in excluded locations, but that's not gonna happen, that's one big scam. What you're really gonna do is that people who work black and take benefits are gonna do that all the time, but the honest poor lose money and end up on the street. And that's what you want to do just so you can bust your ass in the campaign, how you've intervened against the inadaptables. That's a disgusting scam you're doing here, and that's why we're against this proposal because he doesn't solve the problem. Do you think people who end up in prison after tens of thousands suddenly start acting completely different just because they get 3,000 doses less a month? I don't think that's gonna work. Do you think that meth addicts will read: "Oh, Mr. Foldyna voted the law, now I stop taking meth the next day, and I'm going to be a proper citizen? I really don't think this is gonna work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u108	Mrs Olga Richterová will now make a point of fact and will prepare Vojtěch Filip. Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna and Mr. Eva Fialová are also in order for factual remarks. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u109	Thank you for the floor. There was no mention of what was very important here: this is a parliamentary proposal. It's something that didn't go through the reminder process. It is something for which the relevant organisations could not express themselves, and therefore they also express themselves through our mouths, among other things. Remember that you will intervene in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people with this proposal, and I repeat to you, tens of thousands of people in disability pensions who do not have those disability pensions granted in our system. They don't have the paycheck, they live off the benefits of material distress, or they have very low disability pensions, and they use material distress to make up for at least the minimum of life. Please, because we have the system set this badly, so all these people - and unfortunately there are many thousands of people with mental illness, rather tens of thousands - you send them overboard, and that just bothers me. It did not go through a commentary procedure, it is an ill-conceived parliamentary proposal. There are things I think we're supposed to be dealing with in the next term, but please let it go through the standard wheel. It's too serious a matter for you to want to force this way. And one more thing. In debt, in executions, there are about 830 000 people, almost one million people. It's not a thing that only happens to someone extremely irresponsible. Is that something that happens to about a nine-year-old population in our country? Maybe an eighth? Where are we? So 830 000 people in executions are another reason why it makes a lot of sense to talk about how this proposal is going to turn out to be 830 000 people in debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u110	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now appear and prepare the Member Jaroslav Foldyna. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm going back to the Rules of Procedure Act. Please don't lie to yourself here. Of course the press has 652, he's been here for two years, and whoever wanted to discuss it could discuss it. So it's not true that he didn't pass the proper reminder procedure, it's just nonsense. [[13.40 hours]] Secondly, it is not true that we are talking here at third reading about amendments that have been passed through second reading. That's what we're talking about, and that's what the Rules of Procedure are for, a committee that's guaranteed. That is why the Guarantee Committees were put into the Rules of Procedure Act. Let's not lie to each other again! Anyway, since we're talking about executions, please talk about the system. When we made a motion to amend the order of execution in the last parliamentary term, in this parliamentary term, what did we finally come to? The only compromise that was made here was about territoriality. Please, the executor territory doesn't solve the problem of execution, let's face it. Well, it can't be, it's an eye wipe. And I would have liked to have gotten to something else after all, for example, to meet the chairmen of the MPs, as my colleague Černochová said, and find a way to continue and approve those bills. What are you afraid of? That this House will come to a decision? Are you afraid it won't turn out your way? But that is the case, both for the coalition and for the opposition. How many times did I have to suffer that we had a proposal that the government had come up with in a year, and we proposed it here and it was rejected. That's just the way it is. Learn how to lose, too, you who are out there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u112	She will now speak with Mrs Eva Fialová's point of fact, and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Followed by MP Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to my colleague Ferjenčík and, actually, colleagues from the Pirates, through you. You're saying what's wrong here. On the other hand, you say that well that single moms live in moldy apartments, you say that it is good that there are no more apartments, above-standard housing, which is described as to what to look like in this amendment. Are you going to let them live in these conditions? The point is, we want to create some other system to move into better housing, to be motivated to look for it, and not to pay the payer's price on the hawk, if I say so, and there's state money going into inappropriate housing conditions. You continue to boycott what is beneficial in these amendments for this group of people we are talking about, and that is, for example, not taking funds from the school brigades, whether it has gone through in my colleague Juchelka's amendment, thank God, because if it weren't, thanks to this amendment, we're evening it up and not counting into the overall income of the family. You're blocking all this. So what you're saying here is that you want to help these people, it's not like that. You can't accept what's going on here. Plus, specifically my colleague Ferjenčík: I personally offered him to move to those locations, to live there, to pay him the rent, a year and a half ago. It was rejected. I asked him when he went to those locations to see if I'd be happy to go with him to confront him about what it looks like in the Ústí Region. And you know what happened? My colleague Ferjenčík went to see -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u114	Now I'll read the apology. Mrs Karla Šlechtová apologizes for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies because - not today, but 30. 7. So that's an apology for Friday, sorry. So now a colleague of Radek Koten will come forward and prepare Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to respond by your means to Mr Ferjenčík. I don't think this law is about giving money for nothing to drug addicts, and it's about insurance, because your point is that if someone takes meth, they're definitely not going to become a good citizen, and we have to pay them social support from our money or taxpayers' money. That really sounds like a misguided thought to me. I think the law here is highly motivating to those groups of people who commit minor misdemeanors and don't send their children to school. And I think that's the basis - to teach them basically a proper life, because those kids, if they don't go to school, unfortunately, their future is quite worse than if they went to school, and then the subsequent work habits that they should build up will not, unfortunately, be built up. I would really direct money to decent people and other people who don't want to behave, so we have to motivate them to become proper citizens and bring or pay back a debt to society in the form of taxes. And I don't mean single mothers, of course, we have to give them maximum support, but we all know what it looks like in those locations and how the benefits are being used there. That is, parenting is written on the oldest member in the family or in the next family, and benefits are simply abused. So let's pour some pure wine and start motivating people to behave and be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u116	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared, so far the last two factual points. pardon, then MP Jan Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Filip about the laws and their deliberations. I'd like the government coalition to remember this when it comes to the backs of the Senate law and the law on teaching workers. I hope that this law will be discussed in September in order to guarantee teachers' salaries at 130 percent of the average wage, because this has already gone far beyond this proposal. That's one thing. I hope the KSČM will remember that, and so will other government parties who are protesting today's debate. Secondly, press 652 has been sent to Members, including all amendments on 25 May of this year. You're talking about two years, but we've only got two months to vote on a material material. That's a pretty substantial difference. The third reading has not yet taken place, today is the first discussion. So far, you've only let one of our comrades perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u118	Mr Olga Richterová will now appear, Jan Chvojka will be prepared, then the factual remarks - Mrs Jaroslava Puntová and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u119	I want to respond to Mrs Fialová, who I very much appreciate, and I know she wants to find a solution. I just want to emphasise - this law, as proposed, does not contain a solution. And that's the problem we're trying to draw attention to. It said "create another system" that it would lead to it. It's not like that. This is just a disruption of the system that today is, and creating another system would mean systematically supporting communities where there are major problems. I would just like to point out in a factual note that such systematic support should be guaranteed from you as from the government that they will have systematic annual extra support for social work, but also - and this is for all municipalities - for the possibility of housing support, housing purchase, renovation and the like, so that we can actually build a system of municipal flats that is known elsewhere from the world. Without these two linked things, the support of municipalities in their role in housing and at the same time to ensure that it is not just some subsidy program that will end in two years. Well, unfortunately, you didn't bring this up, you didn't want to bring it up, and that should probably go hand in hand if there were any provable holes. But the holes you name are on the enforcement side, on the side that if you know somewhere that someone can work and not work, that's what the tools are for today, but of course it's very hard to deal with. For example, you could send out officials from other employment offices so they wouldn't be out of place, so there wouldn't be an argument "they'll give it to them so they don't have problems at home." You could be dealing with cross-border cooperation. You're not doing it, and that's just one example for many. And that would be the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u120	Mr. Jan Chvojka, Chairman of the CSSD Club, will now appear. Mrs Jaroslava Puntová will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u121	Thank you for the floor. For the last time today, I don't think we're gonna be able to make it in 14 hours. I took a quick look at the work e-mail. The e-mails I received about this issue of foster care were really dozens, maybe hundreds. I will read here the last sentence of the e-mail sent to me by Mrs Krejčíková, President of the Alliance of Replacement Families of the Czech Republic. Let us give up political competition for a moment and please do a good thing for the most vulnerable, for the children. I signed the request for an emergency meeting precisely because I thought that we would solve the issue of foster care for at least some time today, that in some way we would deal with the future of vulnerable children in particular, I think it is absolutely necessary, and that we would not discuss what kind of people - and nothing against the Ústí Region - how evil people live in the Ústí Region and what they are like. It's definitely a problem, but I think the issue of children at risk is much more important. I'm sorry, I'm a little embarrassed that we've spent quite a long time here with stupid speeches in the pre-election debate rather than dealing with the substance of the matter. I agree with what my colleague Černochová said. We have nothing else left, and it's probably the only viable solution that we can just sit down at that 14-hour or 14-01 hours after this amazing meeting, that we can sit down by club presidents or authorized club members and see what to do about it. I'm sorry we didn't do anything for those endangered kids today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u122	Mrs Jaroslava Puntová will now make a point of fact and the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u123	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I live in Most. It's my home, but it bothers me that the whole town is gradually becoming an excluded locality. And if all citizens have the same rights, they should have the same responsibilities. That is why I welcome all the proposals that lead to a possible correction, because I see this as a chance for all decent people. So this law - I'd like it - to actually pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u124	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now speak on the de facto remark made by Minister Maláčová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u125	Once again to my colleague Ferjenčík, through the President. Ask your club president about teaching staff: at every grémium, at every meeting of the Organizing Committee, I pointed out that this is a constitutional problem, because once it is written in the Rules of Procedure Act that the law passed by the Senate is at the next meeting, and even the last meeting was concluded in an unconventional way, so we are getting into a constitutional problem. I pointed it out. Don't blame us for that. Ask your chairman that I actually say that, and I insist. I've never dared to do these constitutional things... And as for 60 days: Dear colleague, there are 60 days between the first reading and the second reading, between the second and third 14 or 7, so 60 days is a hell of a long time to discuss something. Please argue at least logically and don't make a fool of yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u126	Minister Jana Maláčová will now speak, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared for a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u127	Since we are running out of time, we have the last seven minutes, so I would like to ask everyone to continue our emergency meeting with regard to the OSPOD amendment, either on 18th or 20th August 2021, and we will be looking for an agreement on this ground plan for all members of the parliamentary clubs, because I think we need at least two hours for that law. If we discuss it on Friday, we'll put pensions in jeopardy, point out that both laws are unrealistic to me. So please, we're trying to continue this meeting on August 18th or August 20th, 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u128	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now make a point of fact, and then, because I do not have another point of fact, with priority right here I have Mrs Maláčová. Please, Mr. Ambassador. No, you don't need it after that, so get ready, sorry, MP Lipavský with priority rights. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Filip, who first said reasonable things about the laws returned to the Senate, unfortunately after that he did not forgive himself one comment at the end. I just want to respond to her. You said it was here for two years. I have warned you that the real text of the bill that we will be voting on is two months. That's a pretty significant difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u130	Now with priority rights, because I have no further factual points, Mr Lipavskýý will speak with priority rights. He's not present in the hall, so... you don't want to, yes. So now, Mrs Pastuchová. Member Jana Pastuchová? He's not present, so Mr. Bartošek. He's not present either. Now, MP Chvojka, I have a comment. Okay, okay. I got that from a colleague who was driving in front of me. So neither do I, so let's go to the ones I have here in writing. Member Ondřej Profant, who is not present either - he is, he is over there in the distance, I can see him now. Otherwise, I warn you, because there has been no agreement, so I will have to interrupt the Chamber of Deputies meeting at 14 o'clock. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u131	Hello. Since obviously a large part of the Members, although they want to vote in favour of this law, have not read and are not aware of its consequences, we have prepared for you several stories of specific people who will be specifically affected by this law. I would very much like the petitioner or the petitioner or the rapporteur to explain to me how these stories will be addressed, how these people will be helped. The first story is Mr. Bronislav's story. Mr Bronislav has lived in a place of his permanent residence since his childhood, which he experienced in the 1970s. He's single and practically alone after his mother's death. He doesn't have any siblings or friends. It requires total calm, constant rituals, and, of course, no stranger fits into this formula. He cooperates only with a social worker, with field socio-psychiatric services and with attending doctors. Bronislav inhabits a small room of 29 square meters. The apartment is very modestly equipped. Bronislav cannot work because of his schizophrenia, which is manifested by repeated vocal manifestations, in this case screams that make it impossible for him to work in protected workshops. This client says he hasn't worked for about 20 years. According to the information available from the cooperating organisations, the primary problem is his poor health. Objective reasons do not allow him to ensure better housing in the free market and his city does not have municipal housing. Bronislav is granted a third degree disability pension, according to his own words he receives around CZK 8,000. They shall cover all housing costs on a regular basis. There are very low, a total of CZK 5,743, and receives a housing allowance. [[14.00 hours]] And now the problem, or now what happens with the adoption of this law. The apartment's in bad shape. If an amendment to the Real Needs Act starts to apply and the State Social Support Act, which will force the client and the owner of the apartment to modify, the owner of the apartment will not be able to continue to have the client in the apartment after financially demanding adjustments, as the rent will have to increase radically. Mr. Bronislav is, of course, used to the apartment, none of the neighbors mind. Life at the hostel for Mr Bronislav is not possible because of the health problems already mentioned. What's a man like that supposed to do? How are we gonna deal with this? The apartment is inconvenient, and according to this proposal, it would lose its ability to finance it. The gentleman is clearly ill, he is granted a third-degree disability pension, and yet this House wants to take away the last of his housing funds, to evict him on the street, to make his fate even more difficult? That's really undignified, as is the behavior of my colleagues who don't listen. With this story, I wanted to say that the reduced quality of the apartment may not be the result of deliberate destruction or ill will of the landlord. Living in an affordable apartment is for regular use -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-114-01-001-001.u132	Well, I'll cut you off. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. It's 2:00. I have a request here for us to meet as chairmen of the MPs - we have a lounge here allocated to me - to discuss briefly what to do with this next. So I'm interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll see you Friday at 9:00. And I'm gonna ask here on my left if the deputies can meet. Thank you.
