ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u1	2. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - third reading We launched this item on 28 July at the 114th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The debate was interrupted because an objection was raised at the meeting after 14 o'clock by the Pirates, STAN, ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. I ask that Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová take the position at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for Mrs Lucie Šafránková and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are in the Houses of the Press 652/9, which was delivered on 25 May 2021, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 652/10. We will therefore continue with the interrupted debate, which they have also signed up for - first Mrs Věra Kovářová is signed up. [[Mr Profant reminds us that his discussion post has been interrupted.]] Excuse me, you're right, Mr Profant's speech has been suspended, so I'm sorry, please, you have the floor. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'll remind you that last time I talked about this press having this problem, that it just leads to the fact that they're going to take off apartments for disabled pensioners, singles and similar people who can't just negotiate reasonable market rents in an apartment according to ideal expectations. I told the case of Mr Bronislav, who has severe schizophrenia, and for that reason he is very happy to have his own apartment, that he has his own peace, and this amendment would...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u3	Yes, I understand, I'm going to ask for peace in the Chamber, because I really can't hear you here unless there's absolute silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u4	Well, I don't mind repeating it more than once. Mr. Bronislav just won't secure the apartment like I said last time. Mr. Bronislav, the landlord, would like to keep the apartment under current conditions, but he simply is not profitable to do a complete reconstruction, or if the owner had done a complex reconstruction, he would have increased his rent, and Mr. Bronislav would have ended up on the street. He can't go to the hostel because of his mental illness. Bottom line: Reduced quality of the apartment may not be the result of deliberate destruction or ill will of the landlord. Living in an affordable apartment is a better solution for regular use of field services for people with mental illness than rooting them out. Yeah, I'm stressing. Mental illness. This guy's really gonna have a problem, even if we give him another apartment, just get used to it. So that's Mr. Bronislav's story, I won't repeat it all. I hope that then the petitioner, representative of the petitioner, will explain to me what Mr Bronislav should do according to the new standards they propose here. And I'm going to move on to another story I haven't talked about the last time, and that's Mrs. Edita's story. Mrs. Edita lives in Olomouck, has a low retirement pension, and is therefore dependent on housing contributions. They were rejected because of bad - bad, or rather other than the required bill of advance paid services from the landlord. So what happened is it wasn't her fault, it was the landlord. At the office of work, my client and I were four times before we could document the necessary billing documents. All she had to do was get the clerk to pick up the phone and talk to the landlord about what they needed to do. Edith's welfare benefits were delayed due to this. In the meantime, unfortunately, she took a loan from a non-bank company to pay her rent. So again, because of this state's endless bureaucracy, we're driving a pensioner with a really low pension into some loan to loan sharks. At the office of work we therefore applied for benefits in material distress, where he again wanted to document the decision to grant an old-age pension, which the client has been receiving for 12 years and regularly shows the office of employment coupons. It has documented the notification of an increase in the old-age pension for 2020. This was not enough, however, and she had to ask for a copy of the decision at the Czech Social Security Administration. They also wanted to document the square meters of the apartment, whether there was a balcony or a cellar, even though there were employees of the employment office in field investigations. The employee of the material emergency department wanted the client to sign a contract with the supplier of energy, the rate of the circuit breaker and so on, even though the client has no contract with the supplier. In this case, the landlord approached us and explained everything he needed. The clerk was very uncomfortable at her first meeting. After proofing all the documents, however, the client was eventually granted the benefit and the worker of the employment office changed his position and manner of action. She is currently communicating on the phone and is willing to cooperate with us as a helping organization. In my opinion, she finally understood that we are not a burden to them, but cooperation with our organization can also be beneficial to them. However, the client would not be able to handle the benefits herself with such access by some officials. So, as my colleagues have just sent from the helping organization here, there has been a clash of bureaucracy in this state, which is always clearly trying to ask people for completely administratively unnecessary things, does not want to accommodate them, the officials themselves have been in the apartment to ask for other things. The officials did not like the billing, again. The fact that the landlord, the owner of the apartment, gives you a bad bill means they're gonna take away your housing allowance. The story of Edita is that, in more complex cases, it must communicate with the landlords about providing housing services to the employment office, not to the tenant. The comprehensive proposal 8404 contains, in point 12, part two, fines for landlords who do not provide synergies to the employment office. Pirates also propose to fine landlords if, at the call of the Labour Office, they do not make the necessary repairs in the apartment. Here we go back to the fact that the tenant isn't always responsible for the state of the apartment, whether it's old age, whether it's inappropriate conditions. This guy just has to live somewhere, especially if he's a single person, a single person, with a larger family, if he's mentally ill, it's also very hard, even if there's a more suitable apartment, so that the person accepts it and it's functional. So still... The Labour Office shall be paid to cooperate with assisting organisations to help it provide comprehensive information on the situation of their joint client necessary for the individual assessment of each case. That was two stories for me, Mr. Bronislav and Mrs. Edita. Mr. Bronislav is an invalid pensioner, Mrs. Edita is an old-age pensioner. Indeed, neither one of them is a troublemaker, nor one of them is doing anything wrong, trying to live. I hope my colleagues - Mr. Foldyna is already reporting in, so I hope he can explain everything to me and see how it goes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna will take the floor with a factual remark. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u6	I originally thought I wouldn't perform so I wouldn't stall to get to the vote. I understand a group of Pirates and Associates. He doesn't want to take any vote, he's gonna be out here obsessing. That's why we... And I don't take it from them, they have the right to do so, it belongs to the democratic system of this Parliament. A note to your foreman. Of course, he's read us a story that's completely off topic. It has nothing to do with Mr. Bronislav. Mr. Bronislav would continue to live, receiving support. The story he was supposed to tell concerns people who are poisoning the lives of people in the Ústí Region, poisoning the lives of people in the Moravian-Silesian region, they are parasites who make a mess in the cities. [[speaks loudly, emotionally]] This law applies to them! It's about the millions of people who have to live there with them. And you're here to boycott the adoption of a law that would tighten the payment of social benefits to people who violate standards! Breaking standards, making a mess at night, harassing society. And you don't tell the story of people from the Ústí Region, from Děčín, from Chomutov, from Ústí nad Labem, from Šluknov, from Jiříkov, from the Moravian-Silesian Region, from Ostrava, where we have to put up with this mess! The value of our properties is falling because we live with people who don't want to comply with standards. The mess that's going on over there is being done by inadaptable citizens without distinction from their racial or color, or I don't know what's going on here... You're always hypocritically hiding for naming who's making this mess. In Ústí nad Labem, come to see us at 5:00 p.m., come to see us at 1:00 p.m., come to Děčín every hour, get off at the train station and go see! A colleague here said there were no murders. Well, that's not murder, that's not what I'm talking about. [[Time warning]] But it's a mess!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u7	Time. There are two more factual points. The first is Mr Ondřej Profant, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u8	Dear colleague, the Czech Republic is not only the Ústí Region. We've got 14 counties. We don't take you hostage. We're not the culprits of how you run things. Mr. Bronislav's problem is, as I've already said, that the apartment is in bad shape, there's mold in some places, and when that field worker who goes there regularly, he says, "It's not according to the new regulations, you can't get a post here, so make it happen. This means that Mr. Bronislav will not arrange it, he will be removed from his allowance, then he will be evicted, and this disabled pensioner will suffer for the fact that you are unable to deal with any problems in Ústí. I really don't understand. All of us in all regions also have various problems, such as caring for disabled pensioners and so on. They're not just your problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u9	Next, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will appear, Mr Eva Fialová will prepare herself, all factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond by your means to my colleague, Foldyna. I'll wait for him to stop on the phone. [[Ambassador Foldyna gestures.]] Great, thank you. And one thing is a particular problem, I certainly do not deny it, and I agree that there is, above all, a problem with excluded localities. It is mostly a problem in the Ústí Region, but your proposal concerns the entire Republic. And that design of yours puts people with different destinies in one sack. And that's the basic problem. You guys are throwing together people you think they don't want to work, and they're supposed to be taking some doses. But at the same time, you're throwing disabled people into the same bag, single mothers, seniors, people with mental illness. And all those groups will be subject to this law. To all those groups. And because someone has, for example, schizophrenia and is afraid to open up to an official who is newly gaining the right to control his housing, and because of that, he loses his benefits in material distress, because disability pensions are often not granted, or they are granted at a very minimum rate to these people, and so do these people, too, so we think about these people. And we always need to think when we're proposing a law about what the impact will be on the entire state. I recognize the problems in the ghettos in the Ústí Region. But that doesn't mean we're gonna put tens of thousands of people in one bag and throw them into existential trouble. Plus, a while ago, we've been famously interrupting the placement of little children in nursing homes, and now you're going to throw more people and other children into institutional care or take them away from your parents just because their parents are poor. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] You want to make our social situation worse again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u11	Mrs Eva Fialová, Vice-President Okamura will be prepared, all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond by your means, Mr President, to my colleague, Profant. He described the stories here, and I sincerely regret both Mr. Bronislav and Mrs. Edita. And I wonder what Mr. Bronislav doesn't exactly meet, why the apartment is not satisfactory. Doesn't he have windows? That's not what you're saying. You'll get the story described... And in that comprehensive amendment, it says that the apartment is not suitable only if it doesn't have windows, it doesn't have doors, it doesn't have... it has to have drinking water and it has to have social facilities. So how does this apartment, where Mr. Bronislav lives all the time, suddenly not meet the conditions? [[In an elevated voice.]] I wonder. And your comment, from Prague, how do you run it - so do you know what the reality is? Nowhere in real estate you'll find an offer of these apartments or houses. This is where white horses work, when Pražák buy properties in these locations. You don't have an offer of these houses anywhere in real estate. And they're deliberately exporting these people to these locations to make the situation worse! So don't tell us how you run it! Get your white horses in order here first, and then tell us something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u13	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura, Mr. Foldyna will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u14	So, ladies and gentlemen, I've noticed that we've been trying to get to the final final vote of the SPD proposal to end the abuse of dosages inadaptable for months. And the pirát are blocking this place. They're blocking it because they support inadaptables. And now they've found a new excuse to say that the SPD proposal will affect some endangered pensioners and disabled people. It's exactly the opposite. The SPD proposal brings savings of about half a billion crowns, which we want to move to those needy people. And why do I say that? Because the way the Pirates move money is exactly what we see at the Prague City Hall. That means they've upped the public transport fare because they said there's no money, and now they've paid off money in the crisis this year, paying off support for the gay Prague Pride festival. This means increasing the fare for Pražan - yes, for those who pay for a single ticket - because there is no money, and at the same time money is for the gay festival Prague Pride. So that's how pirát deal with money. It's awful! We must prevent such a party from ever entering the government. So don't twist it, all your subpoenas you say in the media, the lies that the SPD proposal threatens those decent people in need. Stop the lies, please! It is a proposal to put an end to the abuse of benefits inadequate, on the contrary, thanks to this proposal, we are to raise additional money to support decent and proper people. On the contrary, we want to support people who are in need and have gotten there not by their own fault, that is what my colleague Šafránková said a hundred times behind the SPD. You're sitting on your ears. So please, the fact is that - I have the last ten seconds - the pirates support the inadaptable, block the bill to end the abuse of dosages inadaptable, and hopefully the voters will evaluate it in the October elections, and you will never be in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. Mr Foldyna, Mrs Šafránková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u16	Thank you to my colleague Ferjenčík. Through Mr President, Mr Ferjenčík, I do not have the slightest desire to harm any people who have worked or who cannot work, who are disabled or whatever. Look, I'm following one principle. I think the people who work should be doing very well. People who can't work should be dignified. Dignity, and that concerns the disabled and so on. Dignity. I repeat, those who work should be very well, those who cannot work should be dignified. And those who represent you pirát here now, vehemently, those who don't work, make them sick, I don't give a damn. I don't care at all. Especially when those who work will be well and with dignity, those who cannot work. And you represent the other people who don't want to work here, and you want us or all the other people who work here to pay for the non-Mocks. And that's all politics! Let's get this straight. Let's vote because you already know how to vote in the House that you want to delay it? Do you know ahead? I have a fear of democracy that you should promote and represent. I'm afraid of democracy because I've had it for 30 years before, and I'm starting to experience it again at this point. I'm starting to get worried about freedom of speech and democracy. And that's the problem that's beside the point of your appearance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to assure everyone here that someone who has a little fungus in the apartment will be okay. That's not what this proposal is about. It's about defining the standards of flats that are clearly listed here in this proposal. But now I'm not sure the pirates have read this proposal, because if they had read it, they would have seen it clearly here. It is in the amendment on page 11, so you can find it. And as my previous speaker Eva Fialová said here, the point is that the apartment has a locked entrance door, it has a window, one room where they can prepare food, a toilet and a bathroom that doesn't even have to be in the apartment. Otherwise, I'd like to tell you here that it's about the taxpayers' state money not being paid into these apartments. And just so you know, there were kids in this. There were children in this, and in this, generations are growing up to be educated, to go to school, and to prepare for their future careers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mrs Olga Richterová will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to my colleague Šafránková. This is exactly the problem with your attitude. The problem is, instead of focusing on the poverty traders who would lose their claims on the payments, you're focusing on the residents of the apartments instead. And that is the basic conceptual problem of your proposal. That instead of solving the problem that someone - and I think it's very unfair what Mrs. Fialová is using, because it's not important where this person comes from, and just like it's nonsense to throw people into one bag in this proposal, it's nonsense to say where the owners of the apartments are from. They're just some speculators with the apartments who, of course, purposefully buy them out and then live off the benefits. But that's the problem we have to solve. And we're not supposed to focus on the residents of the apartments. Those are the victims, not the people who bought those properties and now they're sucking up state money. I totally agree that we have this problem to solve, but I don't think the solution is that we take benefits from the residents of the apartments, but we take it from the owners of the apartments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová, Mr Jan Lipavský will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u22	I'm going to try very briefly, because what's going on here is a mistake from the SPD. Of course, we want what is today to work, and in the law it is absolutely accurate: benefits only for those who really need them. Just as it is targeted, the amendment does not address the trade in poverty, it drives people into residential hotels and instead does not actually change who is considered a person in material distress, but it increases sanctions especially for people with mental illness, for people in disability who live out of the benefits of material distress in large numbers - unfortunately, I did not get exact numbers even though I asked the Minister - because we have a bad system of how disabled pensions are set. And if you get sick at the wrong time, then you are granted a disability pension, but without a paycheck and living off the benefits of material distress. Unfortunately, it is in the case of mental illness that the proposed sanctions for not opening the door are exactly something that a person is being punished for manifesting his illness when he is afraid of strangers. I'm giving you a specific example. But you can see everything - but I have specific things to do with how you may not even know how strict our laws are anymore, but they are not being enforced. And what we as pirát are saying here is that the key is to put in place a really functional recovery. Those checks by workers from branches of the employment office from somewhere else, so they don't get scared. They can just send people from somewhere else within the regional workplace. We are proposing absolutely specific things, but not to be affected by mass, and I would stress, people in disability pensions who are in huge numbers dependent on support under the benefits of material distress. And that's just the mistake of the novel. It's after people that it doesn't have to go after, throwing it all together, and it's after people who live in the wrong apartments. [[Time, please.]] It's supposed to go after the owners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u23	Mr Jan Lipavský, Mrs Eva Fialová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u24	Hello, thank you for your word. I have a need to respond to all this nonsense or misunderstand. What President Okamura said here, he said something about costing the fare, so please take a look at what happened. If you are well informed, you know that we have reduced the price of fare for people in material distress in Prague. Because we realize how hard this life is. So don't lecture us here at all about how Prague is in financial terms or not. Of course, for a tourist who comes to Prague, he needs a ride for half an hour, so that's where the fare got picked up. It's happening in all the county cities. Otherwise, there is the cheapest tram in Prague. I do not understand why we are discussing this at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. It just doesn't belong here, so, Mr President, don't drag it all the way down here so we can focus on what we're discussing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u25	Mrs Eva Fialová, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u26	Thank you. I would like to return to Mrs Edita's example from my colleague Profant. If your visits were to be directed - and now I will not say to the worst excluded locations in the Ústí Region, but to normal coexistence with normal people, I will give the example of Teplice-Trnovana. All you have to do is sit there, observe for a while and talk to normal people who are forced to communicate and put up with the situation every day, and you wouldn't just go to your friends in nonprofit organizations, who are often your political partners telling you how everything works, how they need more money for their partial activities for a few of the chosen, so you would see the situation. And the situation is that a normal old-age pensioner is afraid to go to the employment office for some kind of support because he won't be satisfied, he has complications, etc. These people are scared, and all they want is justice in this world. And at least this proposal brings some justice. It accommodates old-age pensioners, increases coefficients, etc. All you see is the bad stuff, and you say we're throwing people together. We want to fall for who! If you're being polite and fulfilling everything, there's just no reason to forbid anyone, etc. We want everyone to act normal, decent. And decent working people who have been going to work for years have the right to remain calm. And go to the locations where these people live together and talk to them! Don't just go where you need to go!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Next, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u28	Good afternoon. I didn't really want to talk, classically, but I have to. I will not respond to my colleague Lipavský about public transport in Prague, it would be here for a long time, I will explain to him in private how wrong he is. I'm not even going to say that this is my colleague Eva Fialová, who lived in the excluded locality for six months, and if I remember correctly, she also invited colleagues from the Pirate Party, and if I remember correctly, no one came to see her there. That means theory is one thing and practice actually living there is another thing. I'd like to say one thing, which is why I volunteered - because Eva Fialová can defend herself, so she doesn't need an attorney here - and that's that I, I have to say, honestly, I don't really understand the debate here. At the last meeting, we agreed that if the hearing was in the order that the infants would be cancelled first, and then the law on aid would be in material distress, the pirát wouldn't build it, because the order would be maintained. And now the situation is that we have approved the first point. And that's where I voted, just like my fellow pirát, by the way, so that you wouldn't put me somewhere that I'm against you. But then there's this point, and then there's this mandatory obstruction, a lot of logged in, etc. So you don't really want to discuss it. Well, let's hear it, it'll work out, that's the democracy. Just like the previous point, it somehow fell, and there were a number of colleagues who opposed and were overvoted. So I'd like to ask you to do this, however in vain it may be the moment it's 13.38. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, Vice-President Tomio Okamura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear friends, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you here to the comedy of our Pirates Party, which he again shows here for about the third time today. Last time we heard, we were blocking the OSPOD and the law that went through the third reading a while ago, that it was us blocking this place, but today, look at the truth. It's 13.39. We're here on Friday for an emergency meeting. Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, please, would you listen to me? I spoke to you last time. And today it's you who's blocking it so that our inadaptable citizens, where I go home every day, stop taking advantage of social welfare. [[He speaks loudly, emotionally.]] It's you who's blocking this place today, again. And for the second time, I'm asking you to come here in front of the microphone and tell our citizens here that you want our inadaptable citizens to continue to abuse social welfare. Stop lying, stop telling lies and come over here and say it already, because there's really been enough of this comedy! [[13.40 hours]] So I hereby call you through Mr President, come here, save us the time and tell us the truth. Let's vote it out. I mean, the truth will show up here with the vote. You have your amendments there. But you're just lying because you don't care about these citizens. If you knew what the situation was, you wouldn't be able to talk like that. Come to us in the Ústí Region and other regions. I don't just want to talk about Ústí. It's all over the Czech Republic. Go to those locations! Sleep there for a week. And I guarantee you'll remember that all your life. When you're still old, you'll remember that. So I'm begging you to stop lying to me. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u31	Thank you. Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u32	I think we need to do it again. The pirates have been blocking this place for months. They block the SPD's proposal to end abuse of doses that are inadaptable. But now I'd add more information, because if we don't vote for it in August, it won't be ready for the election. Because if it comes back to the Senate, of course the House won't meet again because we have an election. The aim of the pirát is - to translate it to the public - to block it from the elections, then the government will be composed for months, the legislative process of the ordinary bill takes about a year, so, as Mr.Ferjenčík of Pirates and his sister Mrs. Richterová of Pirates here, as they block it, millions of citizens of the Czech Republic have taken hostages. Not tens of thousands, but millions. And because of the two of you - Mr Ferjenčík, Members of the pirát, and your sister, Mrs Richterová - now millions of people are going to pay off the so-called inadaptables. That's your goal. That means if you block it today, and we try to hold an emergency meeting in August, a year and a half, and even if you're not with the government, which I wish, and we do everything we can because we don't want extremists and neomarxists in the government, you're actually gonna block it, and you're gonna make the citizens suffer, all the decent citizens in the Czech Republic, because they're all paying for the benefits. So that's the point. And to Mr Lipavský, the MP for Prague for the pirát. He's lying like he's printing. I'll tell you how you handle money. I live in Prague 6. And when I checked with the mayor of Prague 6, who, by the way, is part of this Demoblock of yours, he said that it's the pirate councilman at the city hall, I guess it's the Zábranskýý or whatever it is, and now don't hold my breath, he doesn't want to give money to fix the side roads. They are completely in a desolate state of the secondary road in Prague. And you're blocking the money. But you give at Prague Pride! You'll put money on the Prague Pride. But not to improve life in Prague. That's your way of doing business!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Mr. Jaroslav Holík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u34	Thank you. I still want to respond here to my colleague Ferjenčík, who said here that we're hitting tenants in apartments. No, it's not. Just like I said before, if you read the proposal, there's a transitional period, an extended efficiency that won't be valid for another three years. When a serious defect is detected in the apartment, both the landlord and the municipality are notified, if there are underage children, and the relevant OSPOD and the tenant. A deadline shall be set for removal. So there's gonna be a long enough time to get rid of it. And most importantly, there will be cooperation with the village to find other housing, if it is not possible to remove it. As for the mentally ill, yes, we've all received an e-mail here from the Ministry of Health. I immediately called three different jobs and asked if they would be in danger. I was clearly told that during the whole time of the practice they exercise and exercise control, they did not meet with such a thing. So I asked what would happen if they encountered something like this. In the case of a mentally ill person, it is clear that he would have a doctor's certificate that he was really mentally ill or had a guardian's care allowance. And then the investigation would be done, for example, in the neighborhood. So I think even this thing you're haunting here is completely useless. And I have nothing more to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u35	Member Jaroslav Holík. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u36	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I initially did not want to respond, but this morning I read an article on iToday: MEPs will decide on the remuneration of foster parents and the tightening of benefits. And the first reaction I read stuck in my memory. I would like to quote it, it is Mrs Kozáková Volrábová's contribution: Already to introduce sugar and whip except sugar and sugar. The neighbor lives in a rented apartment and she doesn't care how much social services costs or what she's paid for. Her friend got the electricity up, but she doesn't care, social services pays. Atd. Atd. Why would they try to reduce their costs? Their argument is that when others are ripping off the state, why wouldn't we? And to my misfortune that we who work for them are only laughing at it: if you're stupid, then you're stupid. So, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we've raised a generation here that doesn't want and won't do. And to make it a little easier, I'd end up with a fairy tale about Otesánek. You know the beginning. And I get to the point where he says, "I've eaten. I ate porridge from the reddish, milk pie, bread oven, mom, dad, girl with the clover, hay peasant, pig pimp, sheepdog with lambs. And I will eat you, Grandma!" But the granny didn't let go and more or less stood up against him in that belly and saved not only the pigs with the shepherd, or the pimp, and the lambs with the shepherd, they saved our daily bread. That's right, dear children. So let's do something so that we don't stay in this world just as eaten up as those of the Otsánek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. Member Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Mr. Jan Pošvář will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond by your means to my colleague Fialová, regarding her comment on whether or not we are in the picture of what it looks like in these locations. I went to the largest ghetto in the Pardubice Region in České Třebová on her challenge. So I'm going to give a brief description of the situation here, and then Mrs. Fialová can tell me whether or not I'm painting this place pink. The situation is that the girls usually have children from 13 years old, boys from about 13 years old unfortunately often start early, they are on meth and their entry ritual into adulthood is to serve a year in prison. That's the situation. The number of children who have made at least an apprentice in the last 20 years can be counted on the fingers of both hands. And this is the situation in the Pardubice ghetto. I think it's pretty similar to the ghettos elsewhere. And let's talk about how something can be done about this situation. The idea of solving it by tightening the law, if we can't enforce the existing ones today, is odd to me. Plus, it's gonna hit a whole bunch of people we didn't want to target at all. [[unintelligible]] That's my basic argument. We know that the situation is absolutely catastrophic. We know there's a need to deal with this. But we're not convinced that your solution is reasonable, and we're worried about those other groups of people outside the ghetto that it might also turn out to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. Member Jan Pošvář. Mr. Jan Lipavský will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. Here was the expression of a political nonprofit. I wonder what that is. I've even heard political nonprofits with a political agenda here in my time. So when I think about it anyway, I wonder what it might be. Perhaps a political party or a political movement. Oh, yeah. Well, of course. So sometimes we work with a political party or with a political movement to promote our intentions. There's some logic to that. Then it was said here that there were several or many applications. If I count well, there's five of them. [[points to the board]] [[Unintelligible]] Two people. Well, I don't know what a lot is, 'cause at some point in time, there were 20 applications and 20 priority rights. So what's a lot of please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u41	So to put it right, I see eight here, but it's possible that it's even more because my screen has some kind of limit. Eight registered for the debate. [[There are five entries on the board in the hall.]] Mr Jan Lipavský, Mr Petr Třešňák, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I believe he'll get to the other ones in the debate, too. It may not be today, but I understand that we will be meeting with this substance even further this month. I don't mind. We're prepared to make these arguments. And the importance of this is quite clear, and it sounds in the specific stories of the people who are thrown into the same body by this law with those groups of residents, which are also well-stretched here. However, how good the debate is and how far we are going in it really speaks of the number of Members in the Chamber, which in itself is also quite a grim view. [[O.R.'s half-empty.]] But let's respect that. Last but not least, I also have to respond to Mr Okamura's words. This is probably a bad thing to remember because our Councilman Zábranský in Prague is not responsible for transport and for roads, so he does not hold any budget, and therefore he cannot decide on any roads, so find out how it is, in his own free time, through the President. And that's about all there is to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u43	Thank you. Mr. Roman Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, such a small thing. I wouldn't mind discussing days, weeks, years, if it was second reading. But we're at the third reading. And read the Rules of Procedure. We have made it to such perfection here that all the things that should have been said during the second reading are said now. If you express your opinion in any way here, your club's opinion and then vote it out, I understand that. But obstruction at third reading has now become an instrument that costs us extraordinary and special meetings here. And we can see how much we enjoy it, even on the number of Members in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u45	I am sorry, I made a technical mistake now because I gave the floor to Mr Kubíček because I thought you had a procedural proposal, but that was a factual point. [[Member Kubíček from the place: Priority Law.]] Well, priority rights aren't over factual remarks. So, Mr. Mr. Třešňák, he's been duly registered, then he'll be Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u46	Good Friday afternoon, colleagues. Actually, Mr. Kubíček made it so factual, so I'm going to follow it up. Here, we're being accused of some kind of ordnance. I have not yet signed up for a proper debate and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I was planning on defending the amendments under the terms E31 and E36, so we are probably not going to get there. But in the context of this, I find it really absurd when four members of the SPD come out, Mr Holík is still reciting something here, but we are marked by those who are building it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u47	So Vice-President Okamura, Mrs Pastuchová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u48	So we're close to 2:00 p.m., seven minutes away, so once again, the pirát have blocked our bill from the SPD pen to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. That was your target. But Mr Lipavský reminded me of the name - he spoke of Mr Adam Zábranský, Prague's councilman. Yes, now you've reminded me of that name. This is your candidate for the pirát for the Minister of Regional Development and the Prague Councillor, who financially supports the radical environmental movement Extinction Rebellion. Yes, you're right. Prima's TV posted it. And this Extinction Rebellion, it is known for its actions, in which e.g. regularly blocking major roads or occupying major institutions. At the end of June, this movement, a radical ecological extremist movement in my opinion, also occupied the Czech National Bank and blocked the entrance for tens of minutes. This is a candidate for the Minister of Regional Development. Radical extremist. And when asked about TV Prima, which led him to support such a movement, he sent money to the movement, 500 crowns a month sent to him, so he replied - quote: I started to contribute to them because I generally liked their activities. - So, yes, we know Adam Zábranský, so I hope he'll never be such an extremist in the government, as your party. And I'll remind you that the pirát here last week, along with the ODS, TOP 09 and STAN, did not support an increase in pensions for next year's vote. They didn't. Fortunately, thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, an increase in pensions has passed. So we've seen here in practice what disabled and old-age pensioners expect, if the pirát, ODS, TOP 09 and STAN get to the government. And last week, Mr. Ferjenčík lied on Twitter about the SPD blocking the lobbying bill. We didn't block anything here last week. On the contrary, we have publicly said that we will support this law, even though we consider it imperfect. The SPD's movement has a clear anti-corruption program, and we're not going to back off. So the lies before the election, how nervous you are, as you've seen yourself before in the government - stop it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u49	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to Mrs Pastuchová, I'll read the apologies. Mr Běhounek apologizes from 13:00 to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Kamal Farhan from 13:20 to the end of the day for work reasons and Mr Antonín Staněk from 13:15 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is 13.56 and it is clear that the pirát have redesigned this law, I have taken the liberty of speaking, otherwise I would rather vote. A lot of people have cooperated in this law, we have done a lot of work. A comprehensive amendment, which has also been consulted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I think we have put the law at least on such a plane that it should not be occupied. I'm so sorry about all of us who've really spent a lot of time on this. And by your way, a message to Mr Lipavský. You're telling us no one's sitting here. Well, it doesn't fit, because we all know, and you're not even hiding from it that you're gonna be building this bill today, so I don't know if you wanted to read to us again the report of Mr. Ombudsman, which you read to us here, I think, two or three times. So some Members are not missing, but they are here in the lobby because I think that the reactions that you are reading to us and looking for just to prevent the vote, some of them are really tired of listening. I believe that we still have until the end of the term of office to declare it. And I'll be on my own for an emergency meeting just to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u51	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský, Mr Ondřej Profant will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u52	Madam President, if I am not mistaken, the YES movement has 78 Members, Mr Andrej Babiš apologized for work reasons, and we can see on Facebook that he is handing out pre-election ice cream somewhere. So much for how it works here in this house. As for the statements made by President Okamura, first of all, you couldn't even read the name of the organization properly, but we are accustomed to the fact that many of our fellow politicians are somehow not in control of this language. And you forgot to add one important thing that Councilman Zábranský somehow expressed his regret about it and withdrew it when he understood that the activities of this organization are going in a slightly different direction than he sees, which is probably important when you need to pull it out like this. I understand, and we all see that the election campaign has begun and the election campaign is running, the House meeting doesn't match the character that we've been used to acting here for the past four years. I also noticed that the SPD launched an election campaign. I've noticed he's got some of the highest campaign spending so far. I also noticed how expensive for example. buying some advertising items, and I also notice, President Okamura, through Mr President, how beautifully your villa is growing in Břevnov. [[A Member of Okamura outside the microphone adds that he already has it built.]] Congratulations, it's a beautiful house. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u53	So I'm gonna ask you not to shout at each other and go into the personal plane. It's 13 o'clock 59 minutes 30 seconds. Mr Ondřej Profant, with a factual remark. If he makes it, we've got the last 15 seconds. At 14 o'clock, I'll interrupt this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u54	I wanted to go to the Extinction Rebellion. This is an organization that seeks to make this planet habitable in the future. What's wrong with it, I really don't understand -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u55	Ambassador, your time is up. It's 14 o'clock. [[I'd say more, but...]] I am forced to interrupt the discussion of this point because it is 14 hours and the time defined for discussing third readings has expired. Mr...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just don't have any other colleagues here to consult. I have seen Mrs Pastuchová here, I see here also the rapporteur, that we could quickly finish the second reading, if necessary, within which amendments can be loaded, so that the deadline may be running, and at the next meeting, which will therefore be proper, we would actually be going through the third reading at the third point that is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-002-002.u57	According to my information, we should continue to discuss this third point. So that's exactly what I'm going to do. It's 2:00, so we have here
