ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u1	352. Government bill amending Act No. 449/2001 Sb., on hunting, as amended /house print 954/ - third reading I will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Agricultural Committee, Mr David Pražák. The amendments are in the Houses of Press 954/5, which was delivered to you on 27 May this year. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 954/6. Pavel Kováčik, Chairman of the KSČM Club, signed up with priority right before I would ask the Minister of Agriculture. [[Still a lot of noise in the hall.]] Mr President, I'll give you my word as soon as things calm down here. Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Mrs and gentlemen, by the third reading came as House press number 954, the Government's amendment to Act No. 449/2001 Coll., on hunting, as amended. Having regard to the fact that some amendments are very complex and cannot yet be estimated on their link and impact, I am in favour of Article 95 (2) of the Treaty. 2, Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, present a procedural proposal for a repetition of second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u3	Okay. This is before the debate is opened, or before the speech by the Minister of Agriculture. Since I wanted to ask for the Minister's speech, he's not interested. I'm gonna sing. I repeat that a proposal has been made to repeat, according to the Rules of Procedure, the second reading of the law on hunting. The application corresponds to the Act on Rules of Procedure. But I, given that I asked the House for peace, and in a way I called on the debaters who discussed the last point to discuss in the foyer... [[He's waiting for the MPs to come in from the lobby.]] I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I remind you, there was a motion to repeat the second reading. We will vote on this motion for press 954 in vote number 479. If you all signed up - I checked out my colleagues, but the condition is stabilized to the number of entries. I've started the 479 vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 479, out of 140 for 97, against 36. The motion was accepted. I state that for printing 954, the law on hunting, we have decided to repeat the second reading. This is Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u4	Mr President, I do not want to raise any deep procedural debate or raise any problems here, but I am not really sure whether we have now acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that a second reading proposal is being put to the vote under the third reading procedure at some specific point, and now we've crossed this. The House is a souvenir, it is voted by the majority present. I don't really feel the need to contradict it, but I don't think we've done the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u5	I understand your reminder, but in any case, if you object to the President's procedure that I did not open the debate at first, that is true, because the President of the KSČM Club has priority rights and he has delivered it outside the debate. Yet it is a legitimate proposal in third reading. So much for that, I guess. With priority right now Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. We are out of the debate, I can only give the floor to those who have priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u6	Thank you very much. It's just that the public isn't completely confused. That there is a certain number of amendments to this press, that is true, but it does not go beyond other prints with a similar issue. There aren't dozens of them, there are amendments, there are - I think the agricultural committee has been discussing this - clear opinions. Personally, I don't see why second reading has to be repeated. If it was the political agreement of the current government coalition, YES, ČSSD and communists, it is good and fair to say that they have decided that they have decided to amend the hunting law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, it is a government proposal that they have decided not to discuss it. It would be fair to say, because who is a little sane and knows at what date we are today, when the elections are, what the terms are, so this amendment to the hunting law will no longer be discussed by the end of this House's term. The fact that there was also a shift in the ministerial proposal, which meant an improvement, an improvement in the current situation, in order to better recover the damage to the animals, better plan the hunting plans, so it was there. That's what's been rejected by this vote here, dropped under the table. I'm sorry, because people here and the Department of Agriculture have been working on this for two years, and now you've put this place to the brink with this one vote. Go tell the owners of the forest land, go tell the farmers that the shift that would mean that if damage was caused can be proven to affect the hunting plan for next year, the civil servant must do so by law or he could do... That's what you killed today. You really put it back today, and the progress that we all need, because in some localities, the animal states are not adequate, so you rejected that option today. If you can convince me that you're able to make second and third reading in July... You won't. So I'm sorry that this is where the move was made. You've decided to do so, but then go explain it to forest land owners, forest owners, but also to the agricultural public. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u7	Vice-President Pikal is still applying for priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must maintain my position that you have acted contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because a proposal for repeating second reading can be made at third reading, but in the third reading debate, and a vote on this proposal is taken before the third reading block. At least that's how it's been going all along, and I'm far from introducing novelties here, so I guess I've got nothing left but to object to your progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u9	I agree, that's a legitimate objection. With priority rights, the chairman of the Pirates' Club, Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u10	Sorry. It didn't sound like a microphone in here, so it sounds like a microphone - § 95 para. 2: "At the third reading, a debate is held which can only be proposed to correct the date of effectiveness of the bill, legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the proposed amendments, or to make a proposal for repeating the second reading." Thus, in § 95 para. 2 is written that the proposal to repeat the second reading can only be made in the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure subsequently states: "Unless the House has decided after the end of the debate on the repetition of the second reading..." So the debate must be closed first and then the second reading is put to the vote. This is clearly the case in Section 95 para. 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u11	So I don't know how to do it, but a colleague named Marek Benda volunteered... Well, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u12	I'm leaning towards what my colleagues say, I have no objection to that. Most of the House can, of course, decide, but should, if necessary, interrupt this point or put it somewhere. But at the moment when the motion to repeat the second reading was made, it really did not vote until after the debate. I will ask the President - with all due respect, I understand that it is not always easy to manage - to recognise this mistake of his, to allow the revision of such a vote and to vote on it after the debate that will take place at second reading, sorry at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u13	There's been a legitimate objection, and I'm going to vote on it first. I'm tolerance alone, my colleague Benda knows he wasn't supposed to perform, but okay. The objection of Vice-President Pikal is that I have put forward a vote on the repetition of the second reading of a proposal that did not fall in the debate, or that is an objection to the President's procedure. Whoever agrees with the objection, we will decide in the vote number 480. I'm going to sign you off first, ask you for a new registration, and once the numbers are settled, I will vote on my colleague Pikal's objection. [[Gong.]] I've started voting 480. Who agrees with the objection? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 480, from 143 in favour of 111, against 6. Objection received. In that case, we will proceed in a standard manner, and I will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He's interested. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Minister, I will try to calm the House... Just a minute. I'll ask the House for peace! And please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u14	Hello, Mr President, Members of Parliament, guests. As part of today's speech, I would first like to sum up the purpose and principles of the proposed changes to the Act on Hunting, first as regards the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act, and then I would like to comment on some of the amendments that have been applied. The basic aim of the proposed amendment is to enable effective adjustment of the number states of cloven-hoofed game and thus to reduce the damage mainly on newly wooded calumny shavings in forests resulting from droughts and the consequences of bark sludge, but also agriculture. The Government's draft law envisages replacing the current periodic evaluation process and the new process of drawing up a hunting plan for each hunting, monitoring the state of the forest with an organisational component of the state, which is the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests, on the basis of which a hunting plan will be drawn up. I remind you that this government-designed solution will bring savings, not only in terms of reducing the administrative burden, especially in terms of reducing the impact on the state budget, because the government's proposal for an amendment represents minimum financial impacts compared to the periodic evaluation of more than a billion crowns at least every five years. The second area is the digitization of the hunting area, including the control of the hunting carried out. It is proposed to set up an electronic hunting system that will simplify administration and communication related to hunting. The system should contain complete hunting planning and information on animal damage and, of course, it will include applications to mobile phones for recording and photodocumentation of hunted game instead of presenting parts of the bodies of hunted game, so-called marker. National hunting authorities will be able not only to continuously evaluate the implementation of the hunting plan from electronic reports replacing the existing paper form, but also to intervene, if necessary, in hunting management by imposing an increase in hunting. It is evident that this system will benefit both the users of chasing and the authorities of the state hunting administration, the State Veterinary Administration and so on. [[11.10 hours]] I consider it essential that the electronic system will contain complete hunting planning and information on damage caused by animals, i.e. those attributes, which will fundamentally influence the possibility of regulating the numbers of game. By introducing the obligation of the user to chase, he already takes into account, inter alia, the amount of damage to forests and agriculture when drawing up the hunting plan. If they do not do so, the hunting authority will operationally increase the hunting plan in such a way as to avoid excessive damage. If the hunting plan fails, it is newly proposed to subject the penalty, which in practice will undoubtedly work as a very effective tool for so much needed reduction of the stocks of cloven-hoofed game. I believe that, in order to limit the negative influence of game on the restoration of rough areas, it is necessary by law to use all hunting possibilities. Government amendment to the law simplifies conditions for hunting, in the interests of safety it is possible to use thermal imaging, night vision in connection with technology growing use of the landscape. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, guests, the Government's proposal for a law on hunting goes to the final stage of the legislative process. I would merely like to remind you that this proposal is being discussed at a time when forestry is fundamentally and crucially linked to hunting, as a result of barking calamity in its modern history and existence. It cannot be forgotten that it is our common duty to establish the restoration of forest vegetation, which is decimated throughout the Republic by sub-corn insects. However, it must be assumed that it will cost a considerable amount of money both on the part of individual owners and on the part of the state budget, namely all of us. I consider it essential that, for the efficiency of the funds spent, this means restoring hunting in the forests of the Czech Republic, it is necessary to create the necessary legal framework, which means discussing the law on hunting. As regards the current course of the examination of the bill, amendments to the Act on Hunting in the Chamber of Deputies have been adopted and applied by a number of amendments to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment, which concern substantive adaptations or amendments to the legislative and technical nature. For the most part, the Ministry of Agriculture agrees. At the same time, however, I must mention some amendments which we fundamentally disagree with, and their common denominator is the fact that they are contrary to the objective and purpose of the amendment now under discussion and, as a result, interfere with the systematic regulation of hunting, such as the compulsory issue of a fishing allowance for owners of 5 and 50 hectares. At the same time, I must point out that some of the amendments applied are directly aimed at opening up the chasing process, which means that everyone will deal with chasing and will not be hunted. [[Noise in the hall.]] Currently, respectively. in a situation in which forestry and hunting are at stake and it would be an entirely unsystemic and undesirable step which is contrary to the objective of the amendment now under discussion. We will get to the points in the course of the negotiations, but I would remind you that these amendments did not appear in the last parliamentary amendment precisely because the amendment of the law makes it very difficult to pass through due to its unsystematicness, and they can be considered as proposals that could block the discussion of the Government's bill. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues who have contributed to the processing of this law so that it will help the whole hunting public and, above all, the forests in the Czech Republic. I believe that if we do not agree, I will agree that this will return to the second reading so that we can discuss some of the amendments again. And because I think that only through consensus will it be possible to restore forests so that they can be used for future generations, so I will be able to ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u15	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate in which I have signed up for President Marian Jurečka, President of Club Pavel Kováčik and with priority rights with the opinion of the Pirates' MP Radek Holomčík. First, then, Mr Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u16	Thank you. I am sorry that the House has been so resolutely emptied here. [[Before the end of Minister Toman's speech, many Members left the O.R. and the noise stopped.]] First of all, Members who voted in favour of the proposal to return this press to second reading just 20 minutes ago. Because if they were here and listened now to what the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman said, it was clear from the list, even if it was short, where the amendment aims, what it should bring, and why it is very important for forest owners, users, including farmers. I would like the vote and the return to second reading to not really take place here. If necessary, the item can be interrupted, convened by representatives of individual MPs, as we do in some other cases, and search for consensus and compromise in order to complete the amendment at third reading. I'd put a lot of personal intercession on that one. Maybe it could have been done before the point got directly into the third reading. And just for someone who follows us and is not fully dedicated, let's just say, on this proposal, they tabled amendments to this House press, they tabled twenty amendments, and it was five Members. There are prints here, where, for example, there are twenty, twenty-five Members, and there are dozens, sometimes hundreds, of amendments. So five Members tabled 20 amendments. And that was the argument that there was a large number of amendments and that it was somehow unclear. I understand that some amendments are very debatable, that this is also the case for the hunting public. I understand that. But I really do not think that this is a reason for repeating second reading, because I do not think that Members would want to make those amendments differently. It's been a long time for that. So please, nicely, let's finish the debate, let's finish the negotiations, because we really don't have as many of us as Members or people, but, above all, nature needs that positive change, and it needs to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u17	Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam and gentlemen, it is also against the background of the ancient dispute that goes through the subject, what I remember here in these walls, so it is not only that there are few amendments. I was not talking about the number of amendments. I was talking about their content and that you really need to consider what and how with almost a pharmaceutical precision. That is why I am now making a motion in the debate to repeat the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u19	Okay. Thank you. And now we're going to have another dispute, because if I vote immediately, I'm going to run into Section 95, par. 3 that this is after the end of the debate. It was always a proposition that was procedural and allowed it to come back. I can't come forward to explain why I think it's important the arguments that have been put down here, but I don't have a way to take my place so I don't interrupt the meeting. So, in case I don't run into it, I'm going to ask for patience in the vote to repeat the second reading, and I will now give the floor to Mr Holomčík to speak on behalf of the Pirate Club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me convey to you the opinion of the Czech Pirate Party Club. However, at this point it will not be an opinion on the proposal itself, but it will be an opinion on the attempt to return it to second reading. I think it's pretty clear that if we go back to second reading, nothing will ever happen again. We just won't be able to discuss the law. Let's remember what has happened in recent years and it has resulted here in this novel. In 2019 we passed the forest law, two amendments were approved. And in the second one, which responded to the barking calamity, there was also a change in the law of hunting, which responded to the damage caused by animals, which just now lives on our territory in a number of locations in higher numbers than it is bearable. Change has passed. I admit that it was not perfect, but it responded to the situation and it should bring about changes that would help to bring about better harmony, better condition and a situation that would make it easier to restore those crusted forests. [[11.20 hours]] From the beginning, we say that we support it, and we are ready to vote for it at third reading. The amendment had two senses, two objectives: on the one hand, to introduce some changes that would bring about positive impacts from our point of view, and then, of course, to cancel the amendment that we voted for here in 2019. Maybe I should have put them in the opposite order, because the second point was probably more priority. In the meantime, as part of the invasion amendment, our amendment to the Hunting Act of 2019 has been abolished, and this is that we will now return it to second reading and we will not be able to discuss it, because when the House does, the Senate is here - I don't know how you have it arranged, but it can be assumed that it will not pass through the Senate, so it will fall under the table. I would like to remind you that in recent years, and for this I am grateful to the Minister, we are investing big money, billions every year, in restoring damaged forests, in stabilizing the forestry sector. I'm glad. But let's face it, if we return this law to second reading today, and if this law falls under the table, then we're keeping the status quo that was here before the barking calamity began, it was here at the time of the crusting calamity that we responded to. And to be honest, we're actually saying, all the money we're giving to rebuild the forest, we're going to flush it down the toilet with one vote. That's why the pirát disagree, and we can't agree to return it to second reading. Let's discuss this, let's make a statement, let's send it to the Senate, maybe he'll pay us back, but please, let's not put it back into second reading. It's irresponsible, and it actually shows that this government offers no future for our country. What does that mean? It just means everything stays the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u21	Mr Stanislav Grospič, who is failing his application, will now speak in the debate because he is currently absent. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. I'm not going to give my brief opinion again. There's nothing I can do. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I am not in any conflict of interest, I am not a hunter, I do not have a hunting ticket. If I go to the woods, it sucks, or rest, so my opinion, which I will present and which will be longer - I apologize - is based on the fact that I consulted several fellow hunters and brought me to this the reason that my parliamentary e-mail was - as usual during the negotiation of some laws, and I assume that your e-mail - filled with dozens and hundreds of e-mails similar to the spirit when the writers say to me: "You must, you must not, and this is how it will be." And of course, there are two groups of inhabitants, say hunters, farmers and environmental protectionists, who have a completely different perspective on the proposal. That is why I consulted our representatives in the Committee on Agriculture and told them that I do not see the reason why, before the end of the parliamentary term, to rush this amendment so quickly and that it would deserve at least a professional broad consultation of farmers, foresters, hunters, the environment, but, of course, politicians in the area. I would like to remind you of some of our decisions, because on 2 June this year we voted here in the Chamber of Deputies, and with a relatively large majority of 118 votes we canceled an ill-conceived bark sticker from the workshop of colleagues Pirates and TOP 09, colleague Adamová Pekarová, from 2019. It was the same proposal by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, my colleague Matušovská and colleague Dolínek. By canceling the third reading, the so-called invasive amendment, it was House Press 931, we spared the Treasury hundreds of millions of public budgets and we still saved hunting associations, because not one word was ever discussed and discussed with the hunting professional or lay public. It was an attachment to the law of the forest at the time. I think, even now, at a distance of a few days, essentially three weeks, not three weeks, that we acted wisely when we raised our hand to abolish this overpriced and ill-conceived label, which lobbied the DUHA movement in 2019. To remind you that if the sticker had not been cancelled, after a two-year transitional period running since autumn 2019, the sticker would have come into effect in November of this year, so that unaccountable accredited experts would have started to chase anyone, of course, assuming that it was not often from the ranks of conservationists, in the quotation marks of conservationists, and with quite large money they would have started to report - they would have simply started to determine without any responsibility how many, where and what should be fired. And if any of the hunters didn't like the assessment, for example, that an unrealisticly high hunting plan was set up, he'd just be unlucky. After the abolition of the sticker, both hunting associations and communities with their, say, tense budgets, which will not have to pay millions for opinions and new officials since November, can finally relax. Let me say that even the officials on the hunting section themselves were relieved because they were terrified that, according to the requirements of the label registration, they would be able to buy a bunch of rotten barbaric cut-down hearing on the offices if you want the ears of the game. As you can see, since June 2nd, we haven't enjoyed long, and we've only gotten rid of an ill-conceived crust sticker for a few days. Already in this amendment, we see at the last minute that it wants to stick or, say, change the new ambition to this amendment and, in fact, the cunning amendment introduces similar conditions to the one we have abolished by Adamová Pekarová, who in this amendment is returning to us in a different form as a boomerang, and all of this will cost much more than ten million, but hundreds of millions of public budgets and a qualified estimate will be needed for this agenda of over 100 new officials. If we were to talk about the wage costs of 100 new officials, the estimated CZK 70 million per year is very, very low. I dare say that 100 new officials would burden the budgets of municipalities, but also the ministry at least CZK 120 to 150 million a year. Of course, high costs would also arise on the side of hunters, i.e. hunters. [[11.30 hours]] What is important to note: the so-called government amendment from the Ministry of Agriculture's workshop came with godly effect, but it is no longer the government amendment, because it is important to say that what has been given far, far exceeds the original version of the government amendment, which was supported by, among other things, the petition of 87 000 hunters. That is, the good intention that the Minister of Agriculture came up with and relied on the petition of 87 000 hunters, dozens of amendments - I think there are 71 of them, if I am not mistaken - has completely changed the original amendment. This press has been in the House since July 2020 as a House press of 954 and 71 amendments, over 50 of which have been in the system since 8. 6. 2021 has a positive opinion and a blessing on the Agricultural Committee. Such a number of amendments indicate controversy - from my point of view, fast-ferment, unnegotiableness, inconsiderateness of this amendment. There are too many patches, just a hybrid of government and parliamentary amendment to the Act on hunting à la about how the dog and cat cooked the cake, and again the number of amendments was not properly discussed with the professional public. If my colleagues on the agricultural committee want to tell me otherwise, I will be very happy to hear their arguments. We were in a special Coronavirus time when the committees acted without public presence, and according to my information, the professional public did not have enough time and space to discuss the amendments put into this House's press and to adopt their expert opinions on them. It basically looks similar to the 2019 sticker, which we cancelled on 2 June with an overwhelming majority of 118 votes from the Members present, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. I think hunters, foresters and farmers were wondering for themselves what was newly added there. Members' amendments add about 15 pages of new paragraphs and provisions to the original government bill or amendment to the hunting law. It is basically a maglayz, mainly amendments by fellow Members of the Agricultural Committee, Amendments A1 to A38, and then amendments by colleagues from the Committee on the Environment under the letters B1 to B13. Some amendments not only change the law on hunting, but also forest law or law against animal abuse. The most significant amendment with a positive opinion from the agricultural committee is the amendment of Members of the Agricultural Committee number A9 with a similar amendment of Members in the Committee on the Environment under number B8. This is basically dusty, in quotation marks, a light version of Mrs Adamová Pekarová's sticker, just pushed through a decree, which will not go through the House anymore, and the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture will do it themselves in quotation marks. If we just can't push through the law, then we'll put it on the Ministry and we won't even ask fellow Members and Members, because we in the DOUHA movement, or we who push it like that, just want it. According to these new proposals, the evaluation on chasing is no longer carried out by an expert as in the original sticker by Mrs Adamová Pekarová, but only by an authorised person is introduced here. Who's the designated person? I would like one of the authors of this proposal to explain this amendment to us in the third reading. So the person in charge, but basically the merit of the amendment, is basically the same thing that was originally an expert. According to the amendments - I quote - 'the person responsible here is a legal person or an organizational component of the State entrusted by the Ministry. The costs of forest inventory shall be borne by the State.'; Money from taxpayers' pockets again. Specifically, the authorised person is the Forest Economic Treatment Institute, which now has a circus of 450 employees. For him to be the one - not the expert, but the designated person, according to experts, he will have to accept by qualified estimate at least 100 other officials, or perhaps more, because he has to handle the 5,000 chasings we have in the Czech Republic and he will have to evaluate these things. As I mentioned, wage costs will be at least 70 million crowns, I say 120 to 150, of course new IT experts will be there, and of course IT equipment will be estimated at 200, 400 million. Just maybe a good deal for some of the friends of someone who's presenting this or who wants to get it into the law, and no longer in the form of a paragraph, but by reference to a decree. Of course, a new IT contract will also have to work for the electronic system to record those hounds, the app for shooting hunted game. By removing the bark sticker, we have saved a lot of hundreds of millions, but now we are trying to put this back in the form of an amendment by the Agricultural Committee A9 and an amendment by the Committee on the Environment B8. Colleagues and colleagues, the 118 of us who voted in favour on 2 June - do you know that someone here is trying to circumvent our decision on 2 June and return it in another way? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the event of a third-reading vote, this has been brought to your attention and that you know very well what you are voting on and not only on the recommendation of your guarantors. Let's step by step follow up on the registration proposal and we'll discuss it all gradually. First, I will focus on the arguments about the original version of the government amendment on the table, i.e. House press 954/0. I have to confess that these arguments, which I will say and read here, are not only from my head, but I have collected them from the professional hunting public and from their practice. The advantage is that we are discussing many hunters and we have the opportunity to document their demands and their expert comments in some way, so I thank my colleagues from the professional hunting public for preparing these underlying materials. 26. 5. 2021 we discussed the so-called government amendment to the Act on Hunting at second reading, which is prepared from the workshop of the Ministry of Agriculture. It was promised that the amendment was intended to address the shortcomings of the ill-conceived barkmark label of Members Holomčík, Balcarová and colleague Pekarová Adamová, which was adopted in the framework of the amendment to the Forest Law in 2019. In a more detailed study...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u23	We have 11.40 hours, so I'm gonna have to interrupt you... [[I'm very sorry... for the entertainment in the hall.]] ... because we have a fixed point. So I just want to recapitulate for the screen record that Mr Bendl, the President of the TOP 09 MP Vlastimil Válek, has declared the position of the ODS MP with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u24	Nobody's gonna be after me, don't worry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u25	Oh, yeah. So I'm interrupting this item and handing over the meeting proceedings. We have a fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-002-352.u26	I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. This point is interrupted at this point and we will move on to the fixed points to 11.40. First up, it's a point number.
