ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u1	4. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of the financial market, particularly in the context of the implementation of European Union regulations relating to the Union of Capital Markets /German press 1117/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a proposal for a law amending certain laws in the field of the financial market, particularly in the context of the implementation of the European Union's rules on the Union of Capital Markets. Last year and last year, a number of legislation was adopted at European level concerning the completion of the project of the so-called Capital Markets Union, a project which aims to integrate the capital markets of individual Member States more closely. These European legislation must now be implemented into Czech law, which is what we are doing with this proposal. In particular, it is a revision of the legislation on capital requirements for securities traders. So far, securities dealers are subject to capital requirements for banks, which is unnecessarily strict for most of them, and therefore this regime is being mitigated. Another area is the harmonisation of covered bond legislation which has not yet been harmonised at European level. The transposition into the Czech legal system is rather minimalistic, because national legislation already largely meets the requirements of this directive. Furthermore, a new regulation of the cross-border offer of a collective investment fund should be implemented into the Czech legal system, which is to be facilitated and clarified considerably. The draft law also implements the legislation on the financing of sustainability, known as the so-called Green Finance, or the provision of group financing services. These areas are regulated by regulations that are directly applicable, so their implementation is also minimalistic. We are also making some minor changes in relation to the revision of the regulations governing the European financial market surveillance system. At the same time, I note that we consulted the professional public and the Czech National Bank. Given that I believe that the law is not problematic in some way, it contains a whole range of things of a technical nature and implements European regulations because the end of the term is coming to an end, I hope that shorter deadlines will be read, and I hope that this will gain your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jan Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u4	Thank you very much. I would also try briefly to describe the material, or the most significant changes. These include revision of capital requirements for securities dealers. The draft law also includes harmonisation of the law on covered bonds, legislation on cross-border offering of investment funds. The area of support for the growth of the SME market, the incorporation of legislation, the transparency of the area of financing sustainability and harmonisation and the simplification of cross-border provision of services, so-called group financing, is being adjusted. This package of changes aims to integrate the European Union's capital markets. The Capital Markets Union is one of the European Union's integration projects, which has been quite important in recent years. [[Emphasis?]] Its aim, of course, is to expand the possibilities for access to capital, not only through banking institutions, but also through the capital market, which in Europe, for example, plays a smaller role towards the United States. Of course, we could talk about the capital union for a long time, which I don't want. Madam Secretary said these are more or less technical things. I consider one thing harmful, namely the growth of environmentalist ideology directly into legislation affecting financial and capital markets. Specifically, there is talk of so-called sustainable financing. I think, and I fear, that if we leave the financial markets, we leave finance strictly economic, strictly financial, and start to finance and assess finance in the light of a certain green aspect, as contained in this legislation, it is, in my view, the way to hell. This I considered necessary for this otherwise technical standard but with this I believe to be a serious convention to deliver. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u5	I am opening a general debate. It's coming in... Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for this press for 35 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u7	So we have a proposal to shorten it to 35 days. Mr. Jan Hrnčíř, then. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've already talked about it here today. The press under discussion is another legislative weed, it is a transposition of European Union directives. I don't think we need it at all. I'm making a motion to dismiss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-004-004.u9	Mr Hrnčíř is for rejection and Mr Feranec is for shortening. So I'm going to look around to see if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate? I don't see anyone. So I'm asking if there's an interest in final words? Madam Secretary, the rapporteur? You're not interested. I can hear the knocking, so I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. So we will vote on the proposal tabled by SPD Member Jan Hrnčíř to reject this proposal. But we don't have a deal, so we'll wait. [[On board 64 logged in, now 67.]] Okay, here we go. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? Voting number 3, 73 Members registered, for 12, against 35. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? [[A note off the microphone.]] Shortening the deadline to the end, please. Thank you for reminding me, but I've got it under control. So we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 77 Members registered, for 74, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see a suggestion. So we will just be voting on the fact that a proposal from Mr Feranc has been made in the debate to shorten the deadline for discussion to 35 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 77 Members registered, for 50, against 21. The proposal to shorten the deadline was accepted. And I end the first reading of this law. We'll proceed to the next point. This is about
