ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 992/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by Minister of Health Petr Arenberger. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u2	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members, let me give a second reading of the amendment to the bill on public health insurance and other related laws. Its aim is to contribute to improving the functioning of the public health insurance system, within many areas. The reason why this amendment is sometimes also called an administrative amendment is because it proposes a new revision of the conditions for reimbursement of health services. This regulation will unite the decision-making process of health insurance companies, speed up management and improve the procedural status of insured persons. The proposal also aims to increase the availability of medical devices by updating the payment groups of medical devices prescribed for vouchers and updating the payment regulation of orthodontic performances and dental and orthodontic products. From other areas, I can also recall increasing the availability of highly innovative medicines and orphan medicinal products, which will be achieved by simplifying the entry of medicinal products and foods for special medical purposes into the public health insurance system. Practical implementation of a new route for the entry of so-called orphane medicinal products will require the preparation of rules on the functioning of the advisory body and new methodologies for evaluation of parameters. Therefore, the Ministry and the State Institute for Drug Control have already launched a series of negotiations with all parties concerned, in particular patient organisations, professional companies and insurance companies, in order to prepare the implementing documents in a timely manner before the amendment takes effect. The impact on the public health insurance system can be estimated for all the areas mentioned at the amount of CZK 350 million in the first year of efficiency and in the lower hundreds of millions in the following years. Since there has been a significant increase in the payment of insurance premiums for so-called state insured persons in recent months, the public health insurance system is still able to absorb this increase in costs. The proposal was discussed by the Committee on Health, which adopted a number of amendments to it, which, like the proposal itself, focus on various topics, ranging from extending the remuneration for certain vaccinations to adjusting the payment of medicinal products. Not all the amendments tabled by the Committee have been recommended by the Ministry of Health, but a large majority of them can be considered to be a beneficial and improving government proposal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to continuing the debate on the proposal and on possible amendments, and I hope that through it we will contribute together to improving the functioning of the public health insurance system for the benefit of insured people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 992/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Committee on Health, which dealt in detail with all known amendments at the time and led to a rather rich discussion. As regards the amendments that have already been mentioned, these are, on the one hand, some amendments that propose certain benevolence for voluntary vaccination against meningococcal infection, tick encephalitis and human papillomavirus. For these proposals, the agreement is actually through the political spectrum, because it is an improvement of comfort for our patients. [[16.20 hours]] In the case of vaccination against meningococci, we have actually corrected certain iniquities, or not exactly the exact wording that occurred about a year and a half ago, when we adopted a law that allowed child support within 6 months. Even then, we voted on the Committee on Health for children within 12 months, but unfortunately, there was probably some ignorance and so further on, six months were added to plenary. We know from the field that 6 months is a very short time because a child has to go through compulsory vaccination schedules and, in the case of many small things, such as a small temperature - which, of course, at a time when teeth grow and switch to a different diet, is not excluded - it was not possible to just inoculate a child within those 6 months. So in this proposal, we're extending the period of 12 months. Then these are some very critical age groups next. It is also a vaccination against human papillomavirus, where we are extending the time when voluntary vaccination can be reimbursed again. So far it is that they are children more or less until the 14th year of age, and we are giving up to the 15th year of age. This is because there has been a significant reduction in vaccination to similar diseases in the past year, which of course was atypical, and we understand that many parents simply failed to do some things in the faith of events. This is about the fact that vaccination against human papillomavirus is more or less the only - I warn the only - vaccination that has prevention for oncological serious diseases. These are not only women for cervical cancer but also men, tumors, malignant tumors such as rectum, but also larynx. In this case, of course, it is very difficult - I have been asked by several journalists - to do what we call cost effective ratio, or in the same year want to profit from what we do. No way. We're inoculating here so there's no diagnosis that this guy can most likely have in 10, 15 years. Otherwise, public health, public health, of course, knows the patterns and systems of counting the benefits of such programs, so, of course, there are savings that go into many times what we spend on the primary vaccination. It is also a tick encephalitis vaccination where, unfortunately, epidemiological data show that relatively serious complications are then in the sixth decade of life. So here we also want to allow - I keep saying that this is voluntary vaccination - benevolence, so that we can prevent complications that then come with another impact, and that is the impact on social affairs. Because we have to realize that these people often, when they manage to keep them alive, they can't go back to their jobs for a lot of other complications and unfortunately come into disability retirement, which, of course, is another burden. Modern public health also calculates health social impacts, whether positive or negative, and all of this needs to be taken into account. So then there is this part of the amendments. The other amendments that were made to the plenary were... amendments that govern certain things, whether they are medical devices or their drawing, aids and the like. Many of these amendments have not been adopted by the Committee on Health. Of course, I suppose my colleagues will read them here in plenary. Another is such legislative technical regulation for patient organizations entering the process. This government amendment to the law for the first time, please nicely, for the first time, allows patient organizations to enter the whole decision-making process in a clear, anchored way, in two ways. First, by certain knowledge of the disease, because of course, we know the most about the disease we have ourselves, and here, please, there would be no problem. This can, of course, be done now in any legislation of the patient organization. The second thing that gives her the opportunity is that she is a full member of the co-decision process then further, and here, in the opinion of the lawyers, this patient organization needs to meet the conditions of the association, because in the legal opinion, that is the best and cleanest way in which this patient organisation can actually co-decision on the large funds that are spent on treating the disease. So this too has been discussed. Other things were screening programs that were discussed. Otherwise, as a whole, the Committee on Health recommended, of course, that we agree with the Government's draft law, including the amendments adopted. Otherwise, as I say, our colleagues will, of course, present the proposals further. Furthermore, there was the input of generics and biosimiliars, and that is because the original preparations usually have some protected time - 10, 15 years - and then, of course, in order to make the treatment cheaper, the drugs come generic. You know all the pharmacies when you can get the cure original or generic. So even here, there's been an adjustment. Others were the notification obligations of municipalities due to certain enforcement of unpaid obligations that are vis-à-vis insurance undertakings. Next, offenses. The point is that sometimes you really forget something and you don't need to immediately make it a big crime. I'm sure he can only handle the transfer procedure. Another thing that was very important is the approval of a proposal that allows for a prescription of diabetic stripes and relevant things for interns. There was a shortage because an intern who could write you all the insulins couldn't write a diagnostic strip. So, of course, it was also given. There were also some legislative technical changes. Furthermore, these are the proposals that have been recommended. So please, I suppose a big discussion today, and of course I look forward to it, because then the whole wide view of this issue will be incorporated and we will certainly deal with this in some way positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have the first Mr Adam Vojtěch signed up. Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to think very briefly of two amendments to this press. I must only say at the beginning that I am very pleased that this press has come to second reading, and I hope that we will also approve it in the final sense, because it is really absolutely essential, it is one of the biggest amendments in the last 15 years of this law, and indeed all patients are waiting for it, because it will make it very easy for them to access innovative and life-saving medicines. So I think it's a good thing that we really put this proposal in place today. I'd like to thank you for that. As regards the amendments, the first amendment is under number 8202. It concerns what Professor Adámková has already mentioned here, and that is the question of patient organisations, where I support the definition of patient organisations as approved by the Committee on Health. However, the truth is that there are organizations that are not currently in the legal form of the association, they have other legal forms. Therefore, in the amendment, I propose a transitional period of one year, where these organisations, which do not yet have the legal form of the association, could transform into the target legal form and, at the same time, have been recognised by history, because otherwise they actually have to abolish the current organisation, set up a new society, so to speak, on a green meadow, and in this regard they would not have the history that they may have for many years. So the amendment envisages that they can transform at that time of year and, at the same time, their previous history will be included in their activities before the founding of the association. So this is one amendment which, however, does not negate the idea of the basic definition, as it was approved under the Professor's comprehensive amendment. [[16.30 hours]] The second amendment is under number 8203 and concerns the so-called highest price agreements, an instrument used between health insurance companies and drug producers. In principle, the amendment responds to the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, which, since the amendment was submitted, has developed in some ways and essentially changed the deadline for agreements on the highest price to a period of validity, not effectiveness. The point is that the highest price agreements are accepted at a certain time, but in practice efficiency is postponed for a few months, with the fact that in the meantime the market situation may change quite significantly, the drug that the agreement is concluded may no longer be really available, and therefore I propose that the deadline for achieving the required minimum market share should be calculated from the validity of the highest price agreement, not from the effectiveness, as is now the case in the present legislation. So that's the second amendment under number 8203. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u7	Thank you and the others in the debate will be presented by Mrs Věra Adámková, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to Amendment 8205, which concerns some clarification. The point is that we want to establish here the applicant's obligation to determine the amount and conditions of payment and to attach to the application a contractual arrangement concluded between the marketing authorisation holder and the health insurance company. However, negotiations are sometimes initiated only after the institution has issued the evaluation report, the conclusion of the contractual arrangement takes place only during the procedure for setting the amount and conditions of payment, or it is not possible to attach it to the application. The amendment therefore proposes to return § 93f paragraph 6 to the current situation, where the applicant attaches a preliminary arrangement with health insurance companies to the application. Furthermore, contracts concluded contain very sensitive information that is often subject to the business secret regime. This information is part of the confidential commercial policy of both Contracting Parties and here we have administrative proceedings under Act No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Code, when the obligation to submit these contracts to the public authorities in full meant certain changes in the protection of sensitive data, or this would in principle cause an increase in prices for a number of medicinal products, and it would often not be the placing on the market of a medicinal product. The Government's amendment to Act 48 primarily focuses on extending the availability of medicines to our patients. So there's this little thing that would probably burden it to some extent. Furthermore, with this amendment, we seem to complement the new provision that governs the issue of reporting the contractual price of a health insurance undertaking by its contractual providers. However, this supplement is part of a government proposal, it is not in conflict with this government proposal and it is clear here, according to this proposal, that it must be explicitly obliged to respect the contractual arrangements concluded between the manufacturer and the health insurance company. However, many health service providers are not willing to make a contractual commitment to reporting the price to a health insurance undertaking. Thus, this part of the amendment point 100 is proposed to be deleted with reference to the justification set out in point 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u9	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mr Pavel žáček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, this is indeed a very important press. It's been a late hour, and I'm a little lightened - I'm sorry, I don't want to offend anyone, after all, it's a press written by one minister, then a second minister presented it to the Chamber of Deputies, a third minister explained it to the committee, and the fourth minister will now be present in the House for a vote on the law. And that will happen to few of the laws to be followed gradually by four ministers and, finally, two of them, one former, one current, took part in the vote in the Chamber of Deputies. It also shows that the law is important, because no matter who the minister was, all of them here supported the law. And we need to realise that it is necessary for this law - or it is important, important and necessary for this law to reach the Senate as soon as possible, and I hope that our colleagues in the Senate will be helpful, approved and signed by the President, and that will therefore apply because it is extremely, extremely important for our patients. I believe that there is political agreement, there are various amendments, and I would like to briefly explain the three that I have tabled. He each is relatively complex, but I have divided them into three because everyone has a slightly different framework, that complex amendment, and other content, all of which are filed across the political spectrum, signed by Members both from the coalition and from the opposition, for which I thank you very much, and so we serve them as a team. The first amendment has number 8219 and this proposal essentially supports the efforts of the Ministry, which is guilty of law, to increase the availability of modern treatment, if you want central treatment or treatment for narrow groups of patients, for our Czech patients, i.e. to increase availability. Finally, we are getting closer to the quality of treatment in Europe as far as this is concerned, sometimes we are getting ahead of it - that is what needs to be said - and we are investing in health. We invest this not only in the health of an imaginary one, but we invest in - if I allow myself to be disrespectful to our patients and health professionals - we also invest in those citizens who have rare diseases returning to work and paying taxes. That means it's not wasted money, in quotation marks, in large quotation marks, but it's very effectively invested money. If we want to cope better with the next crisis, our fellow citizens must be well treated, that is essential, and even doctors must have something to treat them with. It is not possible for them to spend a lot of time having them repeatedly approved or disapproval of different types of treatment, and they should certainly not spend such precious time using and finally even abused § 16, which was certainly meant originally well, but gradually became a complete idol and mantra that actually accompany anyone who needs and needs - these patients are increasing - this special or rare treatment. That's why the system had to be amended. We need to thank the Ministry for doing this. However, I fear that some parts of the amendment as designed could have the opposite effect, and that is where my amendment is headed. Instead of increasing the availability of modern treatment, it could actually happen that it will be restricted, simply because the formulation is not quite optimal from my point of view. I therefore propose this amendment, which addresses medicinal products for so-called particularly rare diseases and principles - and this is important - because the reimbursement of highly innovative treatment or highly innovative medicinal products that will help patients and their doctors to achieve the necessary treatment and, at the same time, enable health insurance companies to control the health budget. The concrete proposals, the amendments, are well-founded in my written submission of the amendment, but we would like - or I propose with the team with which we propose this amendment - that the remuneration be linked and the consideration of the remuneration be linked only to the economic situation of health insurance companies, and not to the state's economy. Because these treatments are covered by insurance companies and not by the state, and they should be the ones that decide. There should not be a double brake, one brake by the state and one brake by insurance companies, because it is necessary that the treatment is either unavailable at all, and we do not want it, we decided that we want it to be available, so that it is available according to the possibilities of insurance companies, and thus as much as possible for those patients who need it. I believe that insurance companies should pay primarily for the treatment that is expensive, which is difficult, where the patient will not reach it, and we should not expose our patients to having to hold collections. On the contrary, it is possible to save where the treatment is cheap, and much better is to acylpyrin, let's say, even if it is not a good example, but I will mention it, was cash and paid for by the patient rather than the patient having to beg for central treatment. [[16.40 hours]] The second amendment, which is under number 8220, is rather technical-legal, he compares some of the things that were and went from the original law to the amendment and then appeared there, as stated in the reasoning on the various points of this amendment. These are mainly legislative technical changes, such as double texts, unification of so far different texts for the same subject matter and the like. The aim is to straighten the legal text so that it is understandable and has a clear interpretation. Next, I respond with this amendment to hospital experience. So far, parents have a legal right - and maybe it's a marginality, but from my point of view, very important and important to parents - to have a full day's presence in the hospitalization of their child up to six years of age, with payment from public health insurance, however, if it requires the health of the child, this is defined. In practice, there is a pointless friction area where a child's doctor does not see the need for a full day's presence as a child's health. I'm not saying it happens, but it can happen every now and then. I've purposely looked up similar cases from the last five years, and they're not completely rare. They just appear. The parent sees the need for his child differently and there is unnecessary discussion. The health insurance company decides that it will always meet the parents and recognize their claim to reimbursement. That is why, in agreement with the Ministry of Health and with the legislative department, we have made a slight change when the incorporation in the law will reflect the current real situation, an experience where doubts and debates may arise regarding this parenting, and parents will be entitled to do so without further justification. On the next point of the amendment, which also concerns the legislative technical matter, is proposed by the amendment to the Act, which extends the right to obtain an extract from the personal account to persons close to deceased insured persons. Thus, the assumption is that the deceased in his lifetime has not made a ban on the provider, the doctor in the hospital. It seems very helpful, but organisationally and technically, the health insurance company cannot fulfil the right under such conditions at all. Technically, it's impossible. Once again, we have discussed this intensively, and this amendment, if I am correctly informed, has the support of the Ministry of Health and the relevant legislative department. The right to a personal account is the right of an insured person, that is not the right of someone else. And if the law then says that the insurance company should have that right, there would be a problem, and it is not justified, and especially the effective transfer of this right to the surviving heirs or to persons close to it, which can also provide several dozens of persons. I continue to justify my amendments in detail. The third one is the most brief one and is basically related to review committees. His number is 8221. The review committee should serve to review the decisions of health insurance companies and I consider them absolutely desirable. I believe that this is a very good step in the right direction. After all, the Professor, through Mr President, Mrs Adámková has already said that here. However, what contradicts the efficiency and acceleration of the appeal procedure is the possibility of setting up several such commissions in one health insurance undertaking, all of which must fulfil the qualified composition of the members. The idea was probably going in the right direction, but its processing didn't think up all the conventions. Which committee will be responsible in what case? Who will determine which committee will solve the case that will be assigned to the case? Will the patient wait a longer time for the commission's decision just because one member of the committee gets sick or takes a vacation? And all of this could happen. I am trying to address this with the amendment, and I therefore propose that the Commission be the only one with an unlimited number of representative members and only one of its meetings will be defined for its quorum by a minimum number of members present. If you will, the committee will have a greater number of members than it will be necessary for its assembly, and the caller will be able to choose from the sum of the members it will convene. Many of these committees work that way, and I think you know it, most of you from your practice when you're on some committees. Organized and processively, not only the purpose will be achieved, but also the desired speed of decision making, which is more than essential for patients, i.e. insured people and their treatment, especially their treatment. And I think patients could get a big benefit from that. Similarly, the establishment of the Vice-President's post alongside the President can only help to function properly from the point of view of representativeship, because if the President is unable to function for any reason, the original proposal does not count on the option, but that is how the Vice-President can represent him. I understand the objection, but what if the vice-chairman doesn't work, so, of course, that's possible. I therefore believe that this amendment, which concerns health insurance committees, should, if it is adopted, simplify and speed up the solution. I, on the other hand, give detailed reasons for this in the report on this amendment. And I'm sure we'll discuss it both on the Health Committee and on the third reading. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for keeping you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u11	I thank you, too, and Mr David Kasal will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u12	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to my colleague Válek and escorts within six years. I don't know how it's gonna be written in detail, but I'm afraid it's not gonna be a problem. Because if it's absolute priority, how do you do it, if you don't have a bed, you don't have space, and the baby's in some condition where he needs medical attention. You can leave the person there, but you have some regulations on the operating order and so on and so on. It's not exactly easy. I'm kind of sorry if there was a pediatrician involved. And the second thing when the problem is wider: it's not just for children under six years of age. It's with autistic children, over six, over 18. And that's where it needs to be dealt with. So I think it should be a little bit more, but now it's late for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u13	Mr. Válek MP. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u14	I totally understand the objections and I understand them. Surely there is room for someone else to make amendments. I have dealt with a specific problem, and the particular problem is that the parenting of children under the age of six is covered by the insurance company only if parents prove that this is necessary for health reasons. Whenever your parents appeal, the insurance company recognizes it. I discussed this amendment not only with pediatricians, i.e. if the head of the Pediatric Clinic at the Brno University Hospital is a sufficiently qualified pediatrician, so with the deputy of this hospital, which happened to be the previous Minister of Health Professor Blatný, if he is a sufficiently qualified pediatrician, which I cannot judge - I evaluated, I consulted, of course, with insurance companies and also with the Ministry of Health, and we found a consensus on this formulation. But I hope that the discussion will be at third reading and at the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u16	I don't want to be qualified, but it's about who directly fills in and communicates with the insurance company. I've only been in pediatrics for 27 years and at least there's never been a problem with us, it's basically that within six years it's automatic that the person is there, and he doesn't have to ask for anything at all. At least that's how it works in Eastern Bohemia. But I know that the problems were mostly in the faculty hospitals where it was requested, that's true. But there's never been a problem in county hospitals, and there's an automatic request for a green request from a child over six years of age, and that's where the problem is justified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u17	Mr Válek will respond with a factual remark, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u18	I really think it is better to leave it for third reading, but I am glad that you support the amendment, because he is really dealing with the fact that there is such a problem in some hospitals. You can't just congratulate your hospital for not having it, but there are hospitals that have it. Insurance companies always give the parents the truth in these cases and pay for the hospitalization. I'm only talking about children under the age of six. škoda, you are a pediatrician, you have more experience than you thought to put forward an amendment, through Mr President, I apologise for addressing this directly. I am dealing with this particular problem with this amendment and I am really concentrating and I thought it was a conflicting matter, on the fact that this is a problem in some hospitals, because there is a debate between parents and, say, medical staff, whether or not it is in this case, but the insurance company always makes a clear decision. So I see it as simple to put in legislation that children under six years of age have this right always. I'm glad it doesn't cause a problem in county hospitals, and I believe in faculty, it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u19	Mr Pavel žáček will speak in the debate, Mr Petr Třešňák will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am merely calling on myself to adopt and to sign up to the amendment of the honourable colleague Marek Benda in the resolution of the Committee on Health No 369 of 31 March 2021 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws. This is specifically House Press 992/3, House Document 8206. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u21	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I very much appreciate the work that has been done on this amendment and which is necessary to ensure that modern care is available. Although I have many reservations about certain parts, I would now like to make one amendment, which I will later sign up for in a detailed debate under number 8198. Its purpose is to ensure that insured people really have free access to health services covered by public health insurance, or to ensure that, in connection with the use of these services, only payments made by the Public Health Insurance Act are required, because the existing wording of the insured person does not protect enough in this respect, for two reasons. First of all, the provisions of Section 11 (1) themselves. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) it is formulated in such a way that a number of situations that occur in practice do not directly affect and can only be relied on by interpretation and, secondly, it is not precisely from the amendment made by Law No. 369/2011 is subject to no penalties and therefore it is illegal to act, but health service providers are essentially incompetent for it, and the protection of insured persons with private law means is difficult to implement in these cases due to the low amounts unlawfully collected. And it's hard to prove the evidence situation. Therefore, I propose to clarify that part of the law so that it clearly protects the insured and also that any unlawful behaviour has clear sanctions. In fact, on the basis of the discussion held during the discussion of this proposal to the Health Committee, we have further clarified that the new rule concerning the prohibition of distinction between insured persons and other patients will apply only if, as a result of the conduct of the provider, the availability of paid services for insured persons would be impaired. The negotiations, which do not lead to a deterioration in the availability of paid services for insured persons, are without prejudice to the proposed provision, which I also thank my colleagues in the Committee on Health. So we worked on it on the basis of the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u23	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová will speak in the general debate, Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u24	Thank you for the floor. I will speak to something here called the rapporteur as a legislative technical regulation, but we do not think that it is at all. It is about the patient organisations and the fact that it is not appropriate for existing, long-term reputable, patients valued by the patient organisations to have limited activity because they have legal personality other than those defined by the Committee approved by the amendment. There it is defined that it should only be associations, registered associations, but yet a lot of functioning organizations are o. p. s. - generally beneficial companies. From the point of view that we have, I present it for myself and for my colleague Petr Třešňák, this is a completely useless thing, completely unnecessary discrimination in one legal form, because that particular legal form does not provide anything at all. It's about how precisely the processes in the organization are, but the legal form itself doesn't tell you that the association, as the health committee suggested here, and where we have a counteroffer that the association will actually defend the interests of patients better than any other legal form. So what we would suggest is that we evaluate reality, assess real experience and satisfaction with patient organizations, and allow the patient organization to be other legal entities. It is a relatively simple amendment supplementing not only the association but also a registered constitution or a generally beneficial society. And the real goal is the same, let it be an organization whose main activity is to help patients and protect the rights and interests of patients. And again, of course, we also understand the idea of having patients or people close to them as a priority, but then there's a disease where it really doesn't make sense. Let me give you a specific example - like Alzheimerův's disease. You probably don't expect patients to defend and represent themselves with this disease. Now imagine the nearest Alzheimerův's disease. They're usually pretty exhausted with care, so it doesn't make sense to put such restrictive conditions in there either. On the contrary, there are a number of doctors and, in general, psychiatrists and people dealing with other aspects of Alzheimer's disease who want to bring together and advocate for the interests of these people. Why not let them? Why not evaluate the activities of these specific organizations directly? I would like to sum up that there are organisations that have worked in the long run, have proved successful, and the current proposal, which has a great chance of being adopted, will jeopardise their functioning. In addition to the Czech Alzheimer's Society, which is a generally beneficial society, it can endanger DEBRA, a registered institute that deals with the disease of butterfly wings, or the Alliance of Women with Breast Cancer, a generally beneficial society, or the National Institute for Autism, a registered institute, or Popálky, also a generally beneficial society. So for me, the objective of the responsible state is to be a legislative environment that allows patient organisations to carry out their mandate, i.e. to help patients, and it is important not to prevent those patient organisations. The definition of the single legal personality of a registered association simply does not make sense. At least 14 established organisations should have a significantly limited activity and should not be able to participate. Plus, there's a more general view. Please remind us that natural persons have the right to care. Lawyers can't be sick anyway. Sounds like I'm saying for granted now. But the point is that it is the natural persons, we people who can be sick, that we have the right to participate in the proceedings. This is about health payments, medical payment processes at last. And here the right of me, of you as a natural person can be realized, for example, by the statutes of a legal person or by the full powers. Each of us should have a chance to choose whether to go through the association, constitution, foundation, family, lawyer, neighbor, otherwise it is actually discrimination in access to procedural rights under Article 36 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Why do I say that? Because the correct solution for the future, not compromise, but we already have the right solution - we have it in the administrative order. And it would just be enough to take over, now I quote it a little lawyerly, the general rules of participation according to the administrative order, Act No. 500/2004 Coll., into all medical payment processes. Yes, it would be a bigger job, but it would be formally the right step. [[17,00 hours]] Since this cannot be adjusted by this one amendment, we propose not to restrict the Czech Alzheimer's society, Debra or the Alliance of Women with Breast Cancer and others, as a compromise, and to allow them to remain a registered institution or a generally beneficial society. This is Amendment 8216 and I appeal very much to its consideration. I will, of course, sign up for it in a detailed debate. There is a petition for a fair definition of a patient's organization, but in particular, please, there is a record of the good functioning and I would recommend that you rely on it in particular. The second amendment, which I also propose with my colleague Petra Třešnák, concerns actually a comparison of what is covered by public health insurance with other EU countries, and concerns midwifes. It is Amendment 8215, and it is only a cross-off of one inserted sentence. It is actually § 18 para. 1 which now reads: "Unless otherwise provided for in this law, paid services are provided by healthcare professionals other than doctors only on the basis of the indication of the treating physician of the insured person, hereinafter referred to as the treating physician. That doesn't apply when it comes to midwifes." And now the phrase is, "If it's a physiological birth in a medical care facility," The inserted sentence ends with "and in the case of clinical psychologists and pharmacists." What's going on? Already, midwifes can, which, I stress, are a university-educated health worker, a nonmedical medical profession, according to Decree No. 55/2011 Coll., on the activities of health professionals, independently lead physiological, i.e. a naturally ongoing birth without pathology. However, this decree, in accordance with European Directive 85/1980 and, as amended, on regulated professions, provides for additional performances that midwifes can perform without a doctor's indication. What does that mean without a doctor's indication? I'll explain it to you very quickly. The point is that a woman does not have to go to her attending doctor first to write to her that she may be entitled to an insurance company to help with breast-feeding or visit to the health monitoring at home at six on Sundays, but that she could do this separately by the midwife. These are the activities to which they are trained, educated, and for which they have competence in other countries that are covered by public health insurance. So they're visits to a pregnant woman's family, visits to a woman's family until six weeks after birth, or six Sundays, in a woman's gynecologically ill. They have the competence to monitor the health condition, support and education of newborn women, so also in the care of a newborn child including the promotion of breast-feeding and the prevention of complications with breast-feeding and other options. But what I was trying to show about it is that they are simply experts in this area of pregnancy, childbirth and care for the newborn baby and now only with regard to the current pandemic, but also in general there is a trend, and I think that right, shortening the length of hospitalization for those who voluntarily want it in connection with childbirth. It is simply very appropriate to have the possibility, simply paid for the possibility of postpartum visits. In particular, this will help to prevent breast-feeding problems and possibly with some other uncertainties or complications. It's just a sensitive period, and this hole in the system, the lack of sufficient support at six Sundays, can actually be too expensive. That's a shame, in my opinion, and this one sentence crossing would mean the possibility of paying for it from the public health insurance. So it's kind of a compliance with Western Europe and it's something that's also based on many years of record, many years of research, and I would point out that it's also based on the wishes of women. So, if you, please, fellow Members, support free elections, please support this possibility that midwifes have the same competences as they do in the surrounding countries: Austria, Germany, Denmark. And consider whether the restrictions that exist in our country are against the interests of your actually voters. Now, I would just like to conclude by pointing out that the condition for discussion at today's meeting was the submission of a methodology on how the evaluation of orphan medicinal products is to take place. It was a committee resolution, where I was very happy that my colleagues approved it on our proposal, but the methodology came today, just a few hours ago, and we also saw at such short notice that there was a series of landmines. So I'm just going to point out one of those mines in methodical procedure and hope that we're going to take a very detailed look at this on the Health Committee. The evaluated criteria in administrative proceedings for orphan medicinal products are defined in points A to J. I'll just give you an example and then the landmine, logically: A) therapeutic efficiency and safety, B) the severity of the disease for which the medicinal product is intended, or C) its substitution by other procedures covered by medical insurance. And now the mine: D) the whole social importance of the possibility of therapeutic influence of the disease to which treatment is intended, and the effects of treatment on the health insurance and social security system. There is no indication of how the social significance of the possibility of therapeutic influence of the disease would be assessed. And then they follow other criteria of the type of benefit to improve the quality of the patient's life and so on, but there is no definition of the weight of those criteria A to J. I want to show that I really think that it will need to be achieved, defined and possibly wondered if there is something wrong. In summary, I will still report to the two amendments, but I very, very much appeal to you to consider their merits. It is really a matter of not unnecessarily restricting the access of those organizations that have already proven themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u25	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'll only touch the patient organizations, I won't comment on the next one, so I won't have another discussion. You also mentioned NAUTIS, the National Institute for Autism Treatment. That's a nonprofit company, and when I talk to people, they call me, it's a national institution. They think of it as a national treatment facility. So it's also about what the nonprofit or organization's name is. That's one thing. And besides, a nonprofit organization, or a patient organization, is supposed to provide services like it provides because you named NAUTIS. It provides social services, provides psychotherapeutic services. That's why it's here, it's not just about the nomenclature and how the company's gonna be, if it's gonna be an oppee, but to make it happen, it's really a patient organization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u27	Thank you and you can speak directly in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present two of my amendments. One concerns the amendment under number 8204. This is psychotherapy, a treatment method of mental disorders and diseases traditionally used by qualified doctors and clinic psychologists. The competence of this activity is acquired by long professional education and, of course, self-development is also a part of it. By 2018, competence for psychotherapy could be obtained by means of a so-called functional specialization, or by successful completion of a certified course in systematic psychotherapy accredited by the Ministry of Health. Based on this education, approximately 500 doctors are now undergoing psychotherapy. Since 2018, however, there has been no competence for doctors to perform psychotherapy, and those who are educated in psychotherapy do not have the opportunity to complete their education. However, the number of carriers of psychotherapeutic performances has decreased in the last 10 years. According to the IHIS data, 303 doctors were specialised in psychiatry in the health care system in 2010 as carriers of psychotherapy performances, with only 270 in 2020. The possibility of obtaining a certificate for the performance of systematic psychotherapy in the health insurance system does not allow a generational replacement of doctors performing such care. [[17.10 hours]] The proposed proposal aims to build an earlier education in psychotherapy, so-called obtaining functional specialization and completing a certified course in systematic psychotherapy and related acquired competencies, equivalent to the education acquired in the newly established superstructure field of medical psychotherapy and lays down the conditions for granting specialized competence in this superstructure field for graduates of earlier education. The second proposal, which is under number 8225, reflects and deals with aprobation examination. This amendment is tabled in the light of the unsatisfactory personnel situation, particularly for regional health service providers dependent on third-country health workers. These health workers often live in the Czech Republic with their families for many years and control the language. In some of the Czech citizens of unattractive regions, health care is provided only because of them. In this context, they should be able to submit more applications for recognition of professional competence and therefore attempts to pass very demanding aprobation tests that they have been preparing for in the long term. The proposal submitted is balanced because it not only increases the number of possibilities to apply for recognition of professional competence and to perform an aprobation test by one, but also tightens the conditions for performing the practical part of the examination in an accredited installation. That's all. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u29	Thank you, too. This was the last application for a general debate. I do not see anyone reporting from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? There's no interest, so we'll keep going. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. The first in a detailed debate will be presented by Mrs Karla Maříková, and Mr David Štolpa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is included in the system as House document 8210, and is also part of the written justification. The amendment addresses the situation of couples' infertility treatment. Healthy women undergo in vitro fertilisation in diagnosed spermogenesis partner failure without the partner being diagnosed in the range of international recommendations of the European Urological Association, which is a common practice in developed countries. The incidence of varicocele among men with primary infertility is estimated to be between 35 and 44 percent, while among men with secondary infertility at 45 to 81 percent. According to the IHIS data and the experience of the workplaces, after assisted reproduction techniques, the incidence of spontaneous abortions and the incidence of extraterrestrial pregnancy are 100 percent higher. However, for the most common cause of male infertility - varicocele - the percentage of spontaneous pregnancy is higher than the percentage of pregnancy after assisted reproduction techniques. The proposal does not affect the conditions governing the provision of assisted reproduction to self-payers laid down in the Act on specific health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u31	Thank you. Mr David Štolpa, Mr Adam Vojtěch will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is registered in the system under 8112, to today's absent colleague Andrea Brzobohatá. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u33	Thank you. Mr Adam Vojtěch, Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for amendments. The first amendment is in the system under number 8202, concerning patient organisations, and the second amendment is in the system under number 8203, concerning the highest price agreements. I refer, in this regard, to the reasoning that I made in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u35	Thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková, Mr Válek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I hereby sign up for Amendment 8205, which I explained in detail in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u37	Thank you. Mr Válek, Mr Žáček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u38	Thank you. I hereby sign up for Amendments 8221, 8220 and 8219, which I have previously explained in detail in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u39	Mr Pavel Žáček, Mr Petr Třešňák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u40	Thank you for the floor. I sign up for the adopted House document, originally Marek Benda, 8206. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u41	Thank you. Mr. Petr Třešňák, Mr. Daniel Pawlas will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u42	I hereby declare the amendment, which I have read under number 8198.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u43	Thank you. Mr Daniel Pawlas, Mrs Olga Richterová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u44	I subscribe to my amendments under numbers 8207 and 8209 concerning the reimbursement of incontinence aids and patches for medical purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u45	Mrs Olga Richterová will speak in a detailed debate and Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u46	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to Amendment 8215 concerning midwifes - I stress, university-educated midwifes. And then the second amendment 8216, which concerns the patient organizations. And I'm just gonna point out: it's so that everyone who real people put in charge can represent the patients. And as for this NAUTIS, he's on the list of patient organizations led by the Ministry of Health. As for the whole matter of patient organisations, this amendment is purely about enlargement so that they can be patient organizations with full functioning of the registered constitution and generally beneficial societies, not just associations. Thank you for considering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u47	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u48	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to my two amendments under House documents 8204 and 8225, which I have justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u49	And last in a detailed debate, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u50	Good afternoon. I would like to sign up for the amendment under the number of House document 8218. I refer to the written justification because it is a rather complex professional issue. Briefly, this is an adjustment to the provisions relating to the reimbursement of medicinal products and the issue of the agreement on the highest price. I have presented this quite in detail on the committee and we will certainly still discuss it there. And I just can't forgive myself for one sigh. Through the Health Committee, I have given a summary of questions to the Ministry of Health, about three weeks ago, and I have urged these answers, and unfortunately, I have not yet received the answers from the Ministry of Health. I am sorry, because these were quite important questions of our experts on certain provisions, and I would like to ask the Minister if there could be a remedy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-006-043.u51	Well, thank you, and I am ending the debate in detail. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? Not interested. Since there are no proposals for repayment or shortening the time limits, I am ending second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. [[17.20 hours]] The next item to be discussed is:
