ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u1	2. Members of Jan Hamáček, Radek Vondráček, Petr Gazdík, Marek Novák, Alena Gajdůšková, Stanislav Blaha, Jan Jakob, Kateřina Valachová, Marie Pěnčíková, Jana Černochová, Pavel Žáček, Bohuslav Svoboda, Vojtěch Munzar, Jan Bauer, Petr Bendl, František Elfmark, Jan Chvojka, Margita Balaštíková, Pavel Pustějovskýějovský and Miloslav Janulík for the issue of the Act on the one-time compensation of subjects affected by the extraordinary events in the premises of the ammunition warehouses Vlachovice-Vrbětice and on the change of some laws /sněmovní print 1250/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 1250/1. I ask that Jan Hamáček present the proposal as the plaintiff, but the President of the House of Radek Vondráček will present it as the appellant. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u2	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. It is a great honour for me to present this proposal thanks to a certain interplay of circumstances and that my colleague Hamáček apologized today. A total of 21 Members signed this proposal, 20 on the original proposal, but I stress that Mr Holík signed it, even though it is not already mentioned in the press. All Members, who are originally from the Zlin Region, signed by representatives of all Members' Clubs. I think if we have a rare commodity, it's time for this day, I'll try to be brief. I would just like to start by saying that we will not be sitting in our main hall in House 4, we are here, we do not have a public gallery, however, I would like to inform you that behind this door are all the mayors of the municipalities concerned. [[It's pointing backwards.]] I think they're waiting there, maybe today they're extremely happy because they're hoping for a positive result from today's vote. I do not think it is necessary for me to repeat again that in 2014 a unique event occurred in the territory of the Zlín Region, which is unprecedented in the history of the Czech Republic. There was an explosion of large amounts of ammunition and explosive substances and the consequences were removed without three days six years. Even the length of intervention is unprecedented in our history. The activity of the Integrated Rescue System subsequently reduced the population's life, whether in the most intense form of evacuations, land cultivation bans, land entry bans and so on. The aim of this law is to compensate for the fact that not only the personal life of the population and the life of the entire community, the functioning of municipalities, the functioning of the region has been significantly reduced. If we followed standard laws, it would be private lawsuits for the residents. It is only really hard to imagine how this could overwhelm the judicial system, how individual citizens would cope with writing a professional plea, how they would show cause, effect, causality, and no one doubt that the quality of their lives has really decreased and that there has actually been specific damage. The aim of this law is also to reach an effective solution as quickly as possible in order for aid to be effective, it must be done as quickly as possible. Therefore, really simple criteria have also been chosen. The basic criterion is permanent residence in the municipality, which was affected by the unfortunate event and subsequently by the activities of the Integrated Rescue System. For citizens, this would be an application which would have to be submitted within a fixed time limit, and in the absence of an application, it is no longer possible to remedy it. Even from the point of view of the public authorities' approach, this is a clearly limited period of time when the rules are clearly laid down. The municipalities and the region would then receive the performance directly from the municipality of the Ministry of Finance within a fixed period. I would like to ask for some time to save, please review the explanatory report to this law, which sets out exactly why this proposal has been made. You can even see for yourself because there was a sentence "Ministry of the Interior" which confirms that this text was processed by experts at the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, although this is a parliamentary proposal, it is a proposal which has been drafted by the legislature and where, therefore, one minor error of legislative law has emerged, which I will correct within the framework of legislative technical corrections to the text. I will quote only very briefly from the explanatory report: "The proposal gives the selected municipalities, namely the municipalities of Bohuslavice nad Vláří, Haluzice, Lipová, Slavičín and Vlachovice one-off financial compensation through which the State expresses an interest in bringing life back to a peaceful state in the vicinity of the extraordinary events. Consequently, compensation is granted separately to the individual inhabitants of the municipalities concerned.' The point is that if we were to act under the State Aid Act, so that the State would provide the regions, municipalities and other legal persons with State aid for the restoration of property for the purpose of securing essential functions in the territory, this can only happen if a state of danger or emergency is declared. However, this has not happened in the territory of Vrbětice and the surrounding area, because however extraordinary this intervention is in its scope in our history, I have already said this, so it also concerns a small territory, and therefore it was not necessary to declare any of the special states under this law. Under this law, therefore, we cannot proceed, and the procedure according to classic private standards, as I have already told you, is very controversial and complex. We therefore submit this draft law, which is in its own way very unique, nevertheless solves a unique situation and I ask you to support it and discuss it and agree at first reading in the procedure of Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, the sentence: "Reparation of one-off compensation for the municipalities concerned and their inhabitants through the adoption of the law is the only way to ensure the possibility of rapid redress at present, since the standard ways of compensation are very difficult' - as I said. Thank you for your attention. I wish all of us luck in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Robert králíček. [[The President shall remain silent.]] Now, the rapporteur... [[Mrs Cernochová gestures from the space in front of the speaker's counter.]] I thought you wanted priority rights for the general debate. Yeah, now, okay. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to take advantage of the fact that I saw the Prime Minister among us. I'd like to tell him that the Civic Democrat Club will support this proposal, we won't veto the '90s, but there's one thing we're interested in. We are discussing the event caused by GRU agents, which has fundamentally touched the citizens of the Czech Republic, the municipalities of the Czech Republic, and is nearing the end of July - you probably know where I am going with this, colleagues: Colonel Michal Koudelka, Director of Security Information Service, has a mandate, the director's mandate until 15 August. I learned yesterday that the government of the Czech Republic will no longer sit down, that ministers are leaving, and I think that for the well deserved - because the year was really tough - holidays, but you can't go on vacation without us as Members - and among us there are a number of members of the Security Committee who have the legal effect of expressing their comments on the names of the Director or candidates for the Director of the Security Information Service. So, Prime Minister, possibly Madam Vice Prime Minister, please answer me the question of when you will discuss with the government the appointment of Director of the Security Information Service, whether it will be Colonel Koudelka, or if you have other candidates - there are other names in the media - because it is actually the Chamber of Deputies, which should also be interested in what is being done in the Security Information Service and in the light of the pause that we are discussing today, it will be said who will be in charge of it and whether the steps taken by the Security Information Service under Colonel Koudelka's leadership - and I thank them for this, as I thank them, as I thank the Police of the Czech Republic - so whether they will continue, whether this case will indeed be swept under the carpet and whether those tendencies of people around the President turn the Czech Republic from the west will succeed or fail. Madam Vice Prime Minister, Prime Minister, please answer our questions as you imagine further developments in the Security Information Service and in relation to the Vrbětice case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u5	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Robert králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, for the rapporteur, would only say the essential things. The Government agreed to this proposal on 14 July, the law being submitted in Section 90 and the Security Committee did not discuss this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u7	I am now opening a general debate, the first to come forward, followed by Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u8	Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura has the floor. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning, when ammunition depots exploded in Vrbětice, I, as a senator, asked for this Zlin district and proposed compensation for the damage to the affected communities and citizens. That is why I am pleased that the proposal is finally on the table after many years of arguing, and it is therefore clear that we will vote, the whole SPD club will vote in favour of today's proposal. In particular, regarding the case of Vrbětice, when we say A, that the State will pay, it would be good to say B, and that the state is all of us, including citizens of the affected area. It is necessary to examine who is the real culprit of this event and to ask for responsibility. Behind each such case, behind every such decision, for example, that ammunition has been stored there in this way and that it has occurred, there are specific people and they should pay the damage, because in order to pay for the damage themselves, the citizens from what the state takes away from them are, of course, nonsense in principle, and should be held accountable by specific people. Every ammunition warehouse, military, civilian, is subject to strict standards and their control have and should do state authorities. I know from local people that the area was as leaky as a colander, and many went there for explosives or weapons as a self-service. The last case revealed is from the turn of 2016 to 2017, when police discovered a group of people who went to the campus for both shredders and machine guns. During house searches, approximately two dozen firearms, machine guns, as well as less than 20 kilos of explosives were detained in suspects and others. And let's face it, it was just the remains of weapons that the thieves couldn't sell. And most interestingly, it was already after the explosions, when the whole country focused on the area and hopefully the state administration, and so the control should be much higher. Regardless of who was the culprit of the explosion, it is the responsibility of the state with responsible people and they should pay for their damage or at least contribute to them, that is, not those affected in the Zlín Region around Slavičín, but those who were behind the decision that ammunition was stored there in this way and did not ensure that these particular things could not occur. And we are already at the state level, of course, far from Slavicín and far from Vrbětice. There's a story here that the Russian agents are responsible for the explosion. As we know from the media again, our government came up with this because the motive should have been the ammunition that private companies supplied from Vrbětice to forbidden places with war conflicts, including the Islamic State. The Rus also confirmed that in Syria, they seized terrorists from Czech unexploded landmines. It turns out that in Vrbětice these infantry mines were stored in disassembled states, but the international Ottawa agreement prohibits them. We know that this has even been dealt with by a court that decided very Solomon that the mines were there, but in a broken state, and that it does not violate the treaties. Czech landmines were allegedly exported from the Czech Republic in disassembled condition and then reassembled in Ukraine, or Turkey, before the mines were transported to customers in Syria, especially the Islamic State, as well as Libya, Congo and South Sudan. The Rus even announced that these confiscated mines of Czech production from the armament of the former ČSLA have had several years, but they did not deal with it because the Czech Republic was a partner and a friend. Now, as a result of our government's step, we are facing an international lawsuit for supporting illegal arms trafficking. Apparently, some companies that had ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice rented used these spaces not only for storage, but mainly for the analysis of anti-cash mines, or for the opposite process, i.e. for the collection of collected mines to function again just before export to the dealer abroad. [[Choir?]] This dealer is said to have been a Bulgarian arms dealer Emilian Gebrev, who declared the purchase of weapons in the Czech Republic as an export to Bulgaria for the final needs of customers in Bulgaria or Ukraine. However, according to Russian journalists, Gebrev exported weapons to a completely different place, namely Syria, Libya, Congo, Malawi, South Sudan, Niger and Côte d'Ivoire. Transport was carried by ships from Varna to Turkish ports, where the goods were then assembled in workshops, and then completed with trucks delivered to Syria, or reloaded on a ship, this time under the Turkish flag, and the ship headed for the coast of Libya. From there, weapons from the Czech Republic - and not only from the Czech Republic, but also from Poland - went to the fighters of the Islamic State in Libya and other clients in equatorial and war-stricken Africa. The Russian army in Syria found many Czech weapons in the warehouses of the Islamic State: SA58 machine guns, rocket launchers, RPG-75 from the armament of the Czechoslovak People's Army and also the above-mentioned prohibited anti-cash mines, which had not existed since 2001. [[12.40 hours]] The information was also confirmed by a couple of detained Ukrainian traffickers, who were detained in 2017 by the Russian authorities in Syria with a shipment of weapons from Poland. They have exposed the situation in Vrbětice with anti-Mins to the Russian authorities, and our questions about our government's responsible officials are logical: First of all, why are infantry mines preserved in Czech ammunition warehouses and hidden in disassembled states when the Czech Republic committed itself to their destruction and non-refundable destruction within four years of signing the international campaign for banning IBL landmines in 1997? Secondly, why were there preserved mine cases in Vrbětice that were already to be disposed of 20 years ago under the Ottawa Treaty? The contract is written quite clearly and it talks about the disposal of anti-invoicing mines, not about their dismantling and storage in a disassembled state for subsequent re-assembly. This is a misrepresentation of the Ottawa Treaty and a violation of the ratified protocol directly by the Czech Ministry of Defence, which interprets the agreement on the disposal of anti-invoicing mines in a way that can be described as circumventing the international ban on the storage of anti-invoicing mines. If the Czech Republic, and even the Czech court in 2016, allowed the storage of cases of anti-cash mines, then it is not only illegal trade, but it is directly a state-owned activity contrary to international treaties and the Ottawa Protocol, which the Czech Republic is a signatory of. So why am I talking about this? As I was saying at the beginning, I've been a long time because I've been a senator for this district, so those villages, the towns there, I know very well, I've been there x-times, x-times I've talked to these people, I don't know how many times, because I've basically been there all the time. So, of course, the SPD movement - I long-term sought and suggested compensation for the affected communities and citizens, because I remember the situation when people didn't even know what was in the warehouse, and suddenly they started falling from the sky into gardens and on parked cars that they had at home, some different pieces and so on and it damaged their personal possessions. That is why I am glad that the proposal is finally on the table after many years of arguing, and we will, of course, support it as an SPD. But why I am talking about this is that we really should think about what is leading to this situation, and it is quite obvious that there has been an error on the part of the state, and we should really, because it can happen anywhere else in the Czech Republic - those warehouses are also elsewhere according to our information, and it can happen again that something is going to explode basically for the hums of citizens, it will cause damage to citizens, and those citizens do not even know that a few miles from their homes such matters are being stored. That is why I would appeal to the state, because this is clearly a state error, so that we can determine who is responsible for this, and that we take measures to ensure that the government takes measures so that it does not simply happen again, so that citizens are harmed in this way without their knowledge and without any influence. The point is that Vrbětice is another example of the state's failure, and whether the explosion occurred during the illegal assembly of mines or on the orders of Russia, because there were illegal mines, has in principle the same cause of the state's complete failure to control the storage of weapons and their exports. Again, it's not just Vrbětice. During the recent aggression of Azerbaijan and Turkey against Armenia, Czech weapons were again identified on the aggressor side. Once again, no one is concerned about this, as are the fate of several dozen Armenian prisoners imprisoned and tortured by Ázerbájdžánec, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u10	I thank Vice-President Okamur. Now a factual remark from the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. In addition, a colleague Benešík and Radim Fiala are registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u11	Dear colleagues, with great respect for priority rights, with great respect for the democratic debate on what you are interested in, with great respect for the fact that someone is interested in who will be the director of the BIS, who could, who failed, what happened in the past, is now being discussed about what will be in the future in those municipalities. We are discussing compensation to restore community life as soon as possible, to live there well as they did before. I beg you, let's just talk about the law, just the compensation. It's not a small amount, it's a total of 660 million. Of course, this thing has the Prime Minister's support, the state has the money ready for it, but we have to agree today and we have little time. Time is our enemy. I beg you, let's just talk about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u12	Mr Benešík will now have priority rights for the KDU-ČSL club and will prepare Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. KDU-ČSL supports the bill and supports it to be adopted as soon as possible because it is the only reasonable way to compensate people, companies, municipalities, cities for long-term damage. They not only couldn't use their property and of course they lived in a dangerous environment, but they often abandoned the property and now they have to put it together, which is another cost, simply because they didn't have access to the property. I personally intersected several members of the government several times, discussed with several members of the government about the possibility of compensation, and it seems that this is the only reasonable option to find that the damage will really be compensated. The options offered, such as individual lawsuits, appear to be a virtually unrealistic path, which would also overwhelm our already overcrowded judicial system. It was said that all Members of the Zlín Region signed the law. Yes, I'm applying for it, unfortunately, by a technical mistake under the law, you won't find my name, but as a member of the Zlín Region, I'm applying for it, I support it, and I support it as well as our entire club. And in conclusion, I would like to say one thing. I don't know if I listened well, but Mr. Tomio Okamura said that as a senator for this circuit he was already interested in explosions in Vrbetice. But these occurred in 2014 and Mr Okamura was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 2013, and so he was no longer a senator in 2013, so he couldn't be interested in the explosions as a senator, unless he knew something about a year in advance, unless he really knew a year in advance that it would really blow up in Vrbetice, and that is really a consideration. If he really knew, it's very serious information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, it was a misfortune, by that time I was a MP, you're right. Now he has the floor with the prior rights of Radim Fiala for the SPD Club, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u15	Thank you for the floor. I will be very brief, even for the President of the House, who has asked us to do so. I just want to repeat that the SPD will support the compensation of the municipalities and residents living in the communities that have been damaged by the explosions, but let me say - and I am sorry that the Home Secretary is not here because I strongly appeal to investigate the explosions, especially after what we have heard here today - that this could also have been a state error. These are very serious things, and I would like the police to see to the end, fall to whomever they are, wherever they are, we need to investigate and push them to court, not just so that we can do some damage to them, but so that nothing like this happens to us in the future in the Czech Republic, even in other places, so that we do not have to vote here again about compensating other communities, some other people who might become incapable of making a good life impossible by making bad decisions, a comfortable life in their communities. So I think it's important to all of us, and especially when we heard where those mines might have gone. If only half of that were true, I think it's fatal things that our state and our law enforcement agencies, secret services, courts should focus and bring these things to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u16	I now have one more point of fact - Mr Jaroslav Holík and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be prepared in the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u17	Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I myself have about 20 kilometers to Vrbětice and I have to say that I have been going there regularly, I have spoken to these people. [[12.50 hours]] I don't want to discuss their hardships here right now. I don't want to discuss the causes. I'd like to appeal to you, one thing at a time. Now let's put personal interests behind us, especially with regard to the election campaign, and let's put those people who have been suffering for six years - let's vote for compensation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u18	Now, in the general debate, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will speak, it is the last application I register. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u19	Yes, thank you for your word. Mr President, Mr President, Madam, Members. I want to support this special bill of ours, because there is no other way to make amends to help people in the area that has been damaged. The explosions in Vrbetice cost two lives, and little is said that hundreds of lives were threatened, whether citizens right there, in those places, firefighters who immediately intervened, an integrated rescue system, which six years including paramedics, paramedics guarded the territory and tried to get rid of the consequences of the ammunition that was scattered all over the territory. Those explosions scared citizens from the Slovak border to Zlin. We didn't really hear them until after Zlin. For the next time, however, they also triggered restrictions on the various types of citizens living around the villages. All of us, not only in our Zlin region, then she freaked out information that it wasn't a careless accident, as we may have thought in the beginning, but it was a terrorist attack, and it turns out to be the culprit. So there is a time when we too have to deal with the consequences for citizens in that place. After a huge deployment of the integrated rescue system, especially the police, which tied the interventions in that area up to a third of the capacity, but again for those paramedics, rescuers and firefighters, they were finished after six years in the area of the job explosion. But that doesn't mean everything's settled. The territory is damaged and it will need to continue to discuss how it will continue to be used, how it will be used. It must be said that these are land owned by the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the State. The explosions in the warehouses, however, took place in the warehouses of private entities. Even so, I think we agree that the state should compensate for the damage caused by the explosions, both to the physical citizens and to the municipalities and to the regions. The initiative of the mayors concerned with compensation requirements came at the right time and they need to be thanked for it, as well as their attorney Mr Polčák. And I am also very, very glad that this initiative has found hearing very quickly at the Ministry of the Interior, exactly with Minister Hamáček. As a result, today's parliamentary proposal was tabled by Minister Hamáček, and we all joined him. When I say all of us, it's the ones from Zlin County. And thank you to President Vondráček for taking part in organizing this here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We can therefore today grant one-off compensation to natural persons who have suffered psychological or material damage as a result of an emergency. The compensation is also granted to the municipalities, and to the Zlín Region. The Council of the Zlín Region also supported this proposal, and I also intercede for the Council of the Zlín Region for the support of this proposal. The settlement of natural persons, municipalities and regions for problems caused by explosions will help return to the peaceful life of the entire region affected by this emergency. And for them, I ask for the support of this proposal, which is balanced both legislatively, morally and economically. And I believe that it will be accepted that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we will all support this law. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u20	I don't have another application, so I'll check the O.R. No one is reporting, so I am ending the general debate, and we will now decide according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of this proposal. Well, in the meantime, I'll be on my way. [[Gong.]] One more time. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Parliaments of the Press 1250, so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'll wait a little longer. [[Gong.]] We're here... Mr. Kaňkovský, so we'll wait. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 121 Members voted in favour of 103. [[No one.]] The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am therefore opening a detailed debate in which I do not have a Member... Sorry, reporting, yes, Mr. President of the House of Radek Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u21	Hello. Thank you for the floor. There has been some overlap and terminology needs to be supplemented, so allow me to load the legislative technical regulation, which can also be voted in the procedure § 90. The proposal for amendments shall read as 1. in Part Two, Section 13, the words "point 5 shall be added: 5. one-off compensation paid" shall be replaced by the words "point 6 shall be added: 6. one-off compensation paid"; 2. in Section 14 of Part Three, the words "and funds for the removal of the consequences of a natural disaster" shall be replaced by the words "one-off compensation paid" shall be replaced by the words "one-off compensation paid." Well, that's it, I hope everyone knows that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-002-002.u22	I'll see if anyone else is in the middle of a detailed debate? I see no one, so I conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Mr President, Mr Rapporteur? There is no interest, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. [[Gong.]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Jan Hamáček, Radek Vondráček, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the one-off compensation of the subjects concerned by the extraordinary.' [[Correction of the voting device.]] Okay... "to issue a one-off compensation law for entities affected by the exceptional events in the premises of the ammunition warehouses of Vlachovice-Vrbětice, and to amend certain laws, according to the House's press -" [[The President of PS Vondráček is speaking briefly to the President.]] [[13.00 hours]] They were read in a detailed debate on legislative technical proposals, so let us vote first on legislative technical proposals. We will proceed to this now, and then only about the law as a whole. We're in sufficient numbers here. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of legislative technical adaptations? Who's against it? [[Comments in the hall.]] Please cancel the vote, I consider it confusing, because the President of the House does not have a voting device. [[15]] In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Mr Miroslav Grebeníček apologizes today from 12 a.m. to 14 a.m. for health reasons. It's okay, so we're gonna vote on legislative technical again. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 123 Members voted in favour of 112, against none, the proposal was adopted. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Jan Hamáček, Radek Vondráček, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of a bill on the one-off compensation of entities affected by extraordinary events in the area of ammunition warehouses Vlachovice-Vrbětice and on the amendment of certain laws, according to the Parliamentary press 1250." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 123 Members voted, in favour of 113, against none. I state that consent has been given to the bill and that the hearing is over. [[A round of applause in the oaths and parts of the hall.]] We'll move on to the next press. This is about
