ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 91st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I've checked you all out, please present yourself with your enrollment or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 16 March of this year. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Jan Čižinský and Members of Vít Rakušan. Does anyone else have a proposal to identify the verifiers? I don't see anybody, I've called my colleagues from the lobby, and we're gonna vote on the verifiers. I started... [[There's not enough kvorum in the O.R.]] Wait, back, I declare this vote misguided. The moment I started, we haven't had a proper deal yet. I don't know how to look at that board yet. So we're going to repeat the vote on the designation of verifiers. The proposal was: Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Vít Rakušan. There's enough of us now. Initiating vote. Who is for the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 89, for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the 91st meeting of Jan Čižinský and of Mr Vít Rakušan. We will now proceed to the 91st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Before I give the floor to Vice-President Pikal with priority, I call on the two Members present, Mr Volný and Mr Bojek, to put their mouths on and comply with government regulations. As I see it, the challenge has not been obeyed, so also for the purposes of possible misdemeanor proceedings with our colleagues, I am giving a warning! Both Mr Volný and Mr Bojka. Vice-President Pikal with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for that word. I think it should also involve the consumption in the hall. However, I want to get off with one thing I unfortunately didn't have time to say from the previous meeting where I signed up for the show, but it also concerns this meeting. At this meeting, whose agenda we will now approve, the last to the tenth point is included in the Government's bill amending Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on the social-legal protection of children, as amended, this is the House press of 911, we are at second reading, and I think this is a very important press that needs to be discussed, unfortunately it seems that we will not be able to make it to this meeting, so there is already a proposal on the chair's counter to include this tomorrow either as the first point or firmly at 12 o'clock. This is an increase in the remuneration of foster parents, which has not been compared with some since 2013. I think we need to do this. So if anyone's interested in approving this show, maybe that's the point they should get to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. And so now we're going to vote on the agenda of the meeting, and I don't see anyone claiming priority rights anymore. We will therefore vote on the agenda as presented on the invitation. It can't be changed in any way. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 95, for 87, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you. The agenda has been approved and we will proceed to the first item on the agenda and this is
