ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin the 102st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you that at 15 a.m., the next meeting will begin with number 103. I'm opening the 102nd meeting now, and welcome to all of you. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your cards. I have called a meeting under the Rules of Procedure at the request of 42 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, May 5. Before we proceed to the designation of the two meeting verifiers, I'll ask you to settle in your seats. Quiet in the hall, please. We'll vote for the verifier. I propose that we designate Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. I'm asking if there's another suggestion. I don't see anyone. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1, there are 119 Members, for 117, registered against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed members of Jan Čižinský and Mr Tomáš Vymazal as verifiers of the 102rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. With the replacement card number 10, Mr Staněk votes. Before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence: Ivan Bartoš from 14:00 - working reasons, Jan Bartošek - afternoon negotiations, working reasons, Martin Baxa from 15:00 - working reasons, Jiří Bláha - working reasons, Jaroslav Bžoch - without reason, Vácha Elfmark - personal reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna - health Vyzula, Miroslav Grebeníček - health reasons, Tomáš Hanzel - working reasons, Monika Jarošová - health reasons, Jana Krutáková - health reasons, Jana Levová - working reasons, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková - working reasons, Vojtěch Munzar - working reasons, Jana Pastuchová - family reasons, Markéta Adamová Pekarová until 10.30 - working reasons, Pavel Plzák - family reasons, Zdeněk Podal - health reasons, Miroslav Samaš - personal reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Juliuspáčák Vyšová Julius Špičák - personal reasons - personal Rostislav - personal reasons, Vyštová - personal reasons. I still have an additional apology for Mrs Karla Šlechtová's health reasons today, an apology. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Marie Benešová within 17 hours - working reasons, Jakub Kulhánek - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - foreign travel, Robert Plaga - working reasons. So much for apologies. And now we will proceed to the 102st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm really gonna ask for peace. If you have any business to attend to, go take care of it in the lobby. Hang in there, Mr. Chairman, really, the noise is great. [[It's ringing to calm down in the hall.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, Mr President, Ministers of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I am fully aware that we are in an emergency meeting regime, even two of these days, but I do consider it necessary to speak with an important and up-to-date matter, to address the call to the Minister Dostálová, who is here. I know that I cannot suggest a point, I am fully aware of it, but I think that the words I am about to say are to be heard on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies because I consider them extremely important and the situation I will be talking about requires immediate intervention and immediate resolution. There's a lot of doctors between us, we're all patients. So far, I have thought that the main indicators of this and the guarantee of quality health care are great doctors, great nurses, great medical staff, excellently equipped our hospitals and other health care facilities. In the past few months, I would say from the mouth of the representatives here, from all the political parties represented in the House, I would say the justified words of thanks, which have been directed towards our health professionals, doctors, nurses and all those who help to fight the covido and who have been so selfless all the time taking care of our sick fellow citizens. However, Minister Dostálová has invented a world unique and since last week the Czech Republic has decided on the quality of health care something completely different - computer mouse. [[He's pointing.]] You see, everyone, the computer mouse decides the quality of health care in our republic. I'm gonna turn it on because I didn't want to drain the battery, and I'm gonna try a click or a double click on the microphone. And you can smile, you can shake your head, but I quote you from a letter from the Prime Minister's Council, or councillors, it's Mrs. Engineer Živcová, a post, I have written, it's the Prime Minister's Council that writes things that even Jara Cimrman wouldn't invent. And our government is serious. I consider this absolutely outrageous and scandal, wasting the professional potential of our hospitals and of all those responsible for preparing quality projects. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] "Dear Madam, Sir" - it is in an official letter from the MMR - "in view of the growing questions regarding the submission or registration of projects to the REACT-EU call, call 98, 99 and 100" - I am talking about this because only the 98 call has been made so far, 99 is due to take place this Friday, if I am not mistaken, and 100 next week - "I list the following factors affecting submissions. Please add information to the processors of your projects." Mr President, if you'd given me peace of mind, I'd appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to calm down, the meeting has already begun, the meeting is under way, the President is speaking. I know this is an extraordinary meeting, but I'm asking for peace of mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u4	These are billions of crowns, just so we know, they're not tiny. Madam Prime Minister Rada writes: "In view of the high interest of all potential applicants, we expect a second-rate regime of challenges. This means that the calls must be filed or registered on the first day, which is the first possible for registration in the call, and at the same time at the given time, that is at 14:00 - not 00, but at 14:00 a.m. Not only second administration but also microsecond administration may be decisive. [[9.10 hours]] Secondly, it is appropriate to consider the number of projects submitted. Thirdly, one of the important elements of how to modernise our health care, how to ensure quality health care, is the technical equipment PC and the speed of internet connection. It is recommended to consult IT specialists. I also state that the server that will receive registered projects is in Olomouc." We, who are from the IT area, do not really understand this information, why it is important, in Olomouc, and not in Prague or Ostrava. "Four, it is necessary to set up a so-called manual submission for projects, with projects having to be finalized and signed before 14:00 and registration can take place at 14:00. Look out! If you click at 13:59, the system will send you a message that it is not yet possible to submit a request. Before you solve this, you'll lose a second and you won't get the project on time." I thought the project was on time the moment the challenge was made. You lose a second here, you're done. Start at 2:00 sharp, then. "I recommend" - and this is completely absurd and it would take me about a microsecond for such an official to leave the ministry, a microsecond would take me this decision, but the secretary is smiling, he's in a good mood, maybe he could show it to us, methodically - "I recommend practicing the observation and speed of the timer that is bound to the world's time, and train a double click." [[Let's hear it.]] I didn't train, and if I had registered a hospital project, citizens in that locality are without modernization of health care, because I didn't train it, I bailed on world time, and I'm obviously slow in two clicks. "The crucial factor will be the start of the click time at 14:00 and the speed of the double click. Good luck!" The comrades really didn't do that. I don't know how anyone can be serious. Billions of crowns will be divided according to who trains the double-click? And the secretary wants to explain it to me. There's nothing to explain. Are we living in a normal world or are we not living? I would recommend to the Minister that she meet those who have prepared these projects with the experts, and say to them: Gentlemen and ladies, you may be right, but if you haven't trained the double-click, nothing will happen. This is unbelievable! You can't really think of that. If I read it, I'll say it's made up, duck. The guy who wrote it went crazy. So we're going crazy with the Ministry of Regional Development, and that's how he wants to distribute European subsidies. And they want to explain it to us! I think that's incredible! Madam Secretary, you should cancel the evaluation by the time of the double click, stop Friday's challenge, say that it will be evaluated standard according to the quality of the project, whether it fits into the system as planned by care in the Czech Republic and not like this. By any chance, do you know where they trained the best double-clicks? At the minister's hospital. Now I know why he's a minister, because I'm sure there was a tender, all the applicants came, they had a mouse, chop, chop, great, Arenberger. He doesn't have time to write a property confession properly, but he's great at clicking. [[Laughing in the hall, applause.]] I know it sounds grotesque. But that's the breakdown of state administration live. And in three minutes, the secretary will be here and say, "I have a great construction bill, Country for future." Whoever clicks will build it faster. And he'll still have the hospital well-equipped. And if you don't, switch management. Is it the director's job to train a double-click? Match and sync hospital time with world time? Where did we get to? That's completely abnormal! There's no explaining it! I'm not even gonna ask any secretary to leave anymore, because if I take one at a time, I'm gonna make a full list. The threshold of what the Minister can afford is completely abolished, actually he can afford anything. And seriously, the poor directors are dealing with whether or not they have an optical connection to the hospital, instead of figuring out whether or not the project is of good quality. I don't know which one-- how to put it politely-- well, you can't say politely-- which sick brain invented it! The double-click decides whether or not a hospital or a medical facility gets hundreds of millions. Many pointed it out in advance, it didn't fall from the sky. Deaf and blind were on MMR. Deaf and blind is Minister Dostálová. So when she's back here talking about how well she set up the building bill, remember how great she and her ministry invented the drawing of European money. And that's a big amount! But I can see who's below the line. I'm sorry, this is the first time I've seen this, so I apologize to my colleague Ivan Adamc - bad luck, slow double click, there will be nothing in Trutnov, it won't be in Pardubice Region, in Jičín, in Třinec, in Boskovice, in Thomayerův Hospital, in Prachatice, Regional Hospital Tomáš Baťa - and now I can continue. All those who didn't fail to prepare bad projects. They failed in quality training of the project to improve health care in their region, failed according to MMR in double-click and synchronization with world time. And yet the Minister's Council writes to them: "Good luck!" [[Fun.]] Really incredible, Madam Secretary, I challenge you, don't judge this 98th challenge by login time, throw it in the trash, evaluate it as standard as any other subsidy program, and everything's fine. Those next two challenges today tell those applicants that they do not need to train double click, triple click or whatever, they do not have to synchronize the world time and it will be evaluated according to the quality of the project. This is the only fair and reasonable system that can be chosen. Otherwise, it's an incredible waste of public resources. I don't think the health care system can be built on who can click faster and who can't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Minister Arenberger apologizes today for reasons of work, Mr Jan Jakob apologizes today from 15 o'clock to the end for reasons of work, Mr Bělobrádek apologizes today for reasons of work, Mr Roman Onderka apologises from 9.00 to 11.00 for reasons of health, Minister Miroslav Toman apologises today for reasons of work, Ms Kateřina Valachová apologises today from 9.00 to 10.00 for reasons of work, Mr Josef Kott apologises today from 15 o'clock for health reasons. President Kováčik is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u6	Mr President, Mr Government, Mrs and gentlemen, he has made the previous contribution by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura through you, Mr President, that is no fun. It even ties it to the construction law, but also to a number of other things. And I want to say, colleague, and the rest of you who take the new world of IT so that nothing goes without it, so welcome to the world of digitization of the state administration. Because according to what criteria other than easy, without any side effects other than the time limit, these things can be decided? Any other criterion in the digital world is or may be slightly biased. [[It's busy in the hall.]] So I would really like to take every decision we make on the law or how the state administration and other institutions are supposed to approach the citizen and municipalities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u7	I'm really asking you to calm down! Don't shout at yourself! If there's anything you need to discuss, go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u8	- to decide at the same time that such absurdities as those mentioned by Mr Stanjura will not occur. I know, for some time, it was a matter of making the choice - that is, evil language claims, isn't it? - from which political party the mayor or director of the institution is responsible. That's long gone, isn't it? Now all he really has to do is log in as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this criterion does not take into account the quality of the projects. This criterion does not take into account the necessity, need, necessity of the applicant either. This criterion really only takes into account how skilled the applicant is in the digital world, regardless of the relevant professional qualifications or level. I think that may be an advantage, but it certainly outweighs the disadvantages. There can be no talk of the objectivity of this decision. Please consider, next time, whether this criterion is really to be the decisive one, and let us not just look head-on at the fact that digitalization solves everything. Yes, they will, but the way my colleague Stanjura has just depicted it. And that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, President Válek, President Jurečka will prepare himself. I remind you, we're at the program approval stage. Only priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u10	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues, I had to attend this clown shop because I am working in one of those hospitals that has had total failure, probably because Professor Blatný is no longer a minister. We've been planning these projects for three quarters of a year. The result was that unfortunately we didn't buy the game mice fast enough, we probably didn't have the right lucky ones, which was done right at the second - Brno University Hospital. It certainly has nothing to do with the fact that the director of the hospital is the current Deputy Minister - and that is where all the projects came out. I think it is absolutely undignified Czech health and totally undignified to distribute money in this way. I consider this a huge embarrassment. I apologized to all my colleagues at our hospital because I feel guilty as an MP. Unfortunately, that's how they see it: as a totally undignified clown shop, all those who work in medical research, who work at the Medical Research Agency, any grant agency. If a click were to decide on projects, whether the project was assigned or not, it would be the biggest shame for them in their professional and scientific life. There are professors here among you, there are rectors among you, ex-directors. Please, I ask them: Have you ever been able to decide the rate of clicking on the distribution of money for scientific and research projects? [[He's talking loud, excited.]] So the difference between approved-unapproved was a tenth of a second? Have you ever really experienced that before? Does that seem normal to you? Does it seem normal to you that this is how it works? However, I will not attack the Minister, because the entire event was planned by the Ministry of Health. There was some deputy responsible for the event! What evaluation criteria did he set? That's what I'd like to know here. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here. He's not the minister who planned it, nor the deputy who planned it. But what were the criteria for this money coming? The fact that this money will be used in what areas of medical research or in which areas of Czech medicine to be used has been known for months, perhaps even more than a year. I would therefore assume that, for example, the Ministry of Health will propose to the MMR that the evaluation committee be the Scientific Board of the Czech Medical Society. Or that the evaluation committee be the Scientific Council and Bureau of the Agency for Health Research or other similar body, which can assess what is for the benefit of not some group but for the benefit of Czech health care. And not that the evaluation committee, the expert body, will be mouse vendors, online game players, and the speed of connection. That seems to me to be completely, totally undignified, completely desperate and spit in the face of all the paramedics who took care of the covid and what they were preparing for these projects. There are a number of hospitals that have been affected. Some regions didn't get a single project, and I think it's very sad. And through Mr President, esteemed colleague Kováčik: Vysočina Region is at the top of IT and thanks to the previous Governor. It's a county where faculty hospitals go to learn. However, as far as clicking is concerned, they're very far back. They didn't. They click bad, they don't have good push-ups. It's not just about IT. And I think none of you would agree that in voting in this The Chamber of Deputies will count the first 50 push-ups and those who click as 51. do not count to the vote anymore. And this is what we're talking about. Therefore, I beg you very much and join my colleague Stanjur through the President: Please cancel this! Let's cancel the order. Let's calm down the health community. And please, please - and I understand that the Minister is not entirely guilty of this - so that the Minister here promises to microphone, if it is possible that these projects will really be evaluated professionally, and I ask the Ministry of Health to lay down clear rules and criteria according to which the projects will be selected - professional criteria related to the quality of the projects and not how quickly they click! Because then we get into a situation, and let it not be so dramatic, in which my children were when they were studying at Masaryk University, when the preterms start around midnight, and whoever first clicks, has a preterm. Whoever clicks later doesn't have the preterm. It's not a tragedy. And, yes, here I agree, through Mr President, with Mr Kováčik, here the speed of clicking has to do with this. I have four children. The youngest is, when it comes to clicking, the fastest, my game mouse. holt's older siblings woke him up at midnight, he sat down, clicked faster than the older ones, so they had preterms. Yes, it is a solution: we could put on our children who can click quickly. But where would we get to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. I have several priority rights here. The Minister wishes to speak only after the agenda has been approved and we will be at the point for which we are gathered here. Now, Prime Minister Jurečka, President Bartoš will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, three members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I will be brief because the important thing has already been said here in the opening speech of President Stanjura. But if you're a little bit older and you've watched political events a few years ago, you'll remember the legendary notion of a Karlovy Vary lottery drawer. Now, I apologize to everyone in Karlovy Vary, but the Karlovy Vary lottery draw compared to what we can watch here is just a rag. What has been going on here in this way is something that we in the regions are not able to explain completely. If any of the representatives of the government clubs of the ČSSD or YES, who needs to be a member of the Health Committee, are able to perform here and defend what has happened here, I would like him to be able to say so. I'm sure we'll make room for that next week's regular meeting, where we'll put that point in order to have a chance to have a debate about it. But what bothers me is that the Minister of Health is silent. I'm the head of the resort that's being touched in this way, so I'm gonna get out right now, and I'm gonna point out right now that it just can't stay that way. And I assume that the Police of the Czech Republic will investigate this whole procedure for this round more. Because there's a lot of information here that changes have happened in the order of the participants. There's information that some of the participants knew that the window would open a second earlier. That's serious information! If these things were made possible by a company that was responsible for the software and which supplied the software for the administration of these challenges, it's a big problem and a big mess. [[9.30 hours]] So I'd like the secretary to stop this, this whole fifth round. Either he gets out here and says he guarantees that none of the projects will be evaluated in the finals by the speed of the double-click, or whether the whole bike is canceled and done again. And have the Department of Health complete the criteria by which efficiency, need, meaningfulness can be assessed in the territory of the investments made by the individual hospitals. But we just can't keep quiet here about the fact that there's more than 8 billion crowns to go where it's most needed, and not where they have the fastest Internet connection or where they have the fastest IT player, or where they have information that they have for example. The application window opens a second earlier. So I'm asking very much for this whole round to stop, either to be rewritten, or in no way to be able to decide on any project the rate of registration of the application, and thus how the applicant clicked on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Now, President Bartoš, President Stanjura will be ready. So he cancels his application, you volunteered in the heat. Mr. Chairman Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u14	Good morning to you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representatives of the government, Madam Secretary, I would also like to respond. I expected that today's topic would be the construction law, but what happened in the last few days was a mess. It was said here - and I think even the Minister has it on Twitter - that some content items were evaluated. So there was a clicker where yes-no answers were allowed. Are you a hospital? Yes-no. Are you this? Yes-no. And this list of these yes-no answers that kind of said what subject he was asking for, that should be an evaluation of those projects. I was thrilled to have developed a regional development strategy in recent years, which looked at individual regions and how people live there, how much there is s. r. o, how available health care, how many universities there are. Just the criterion of a region where we have hospitals somewhere, in the Šluknov Probe, where they are in major problems, and somewhere we have hospitals that work, I think it is a crucial assessment criterion where the money should go under this program. That's the first thing. Therefore, the evaluation of the quality of these projects should be both how well the project is prepared and then actually go in that direction to help where it is most up-to-date with regard to people and the amenities of those hospitals for the region. That's the first thing. I wanted to respond to Mr. Speaker of the KSČM through Mr. President. I thought your performance seemed a little - and I don't mean to offend you - as the rhetoric of the machine breakers. So, we're in a paper world. You send a project application somewhere, some kind of fascicle. When the application was accepted, when it was evaluated in the paper world where it got on the list where you put the papers, it's only up to the person who accepts it, how it puts the stamp there, how it writes the time. There's no verifiable digital footprint in the paper world beyond the fact that one person in the mailroom is handling this process. I was talking about the topic of digitalization about three years ago - and it was, say, a random breakfast - with the President of Estonia, who said that the digital world allowed her to live safe, that her health card wouldn't fly anywhere, that she would disappear from the drawer, that someone would pass it off somewhere, because she knows that her medical records are stored in one place, editing who had access to them, who, and for what reason, was looking at her, and that number of approaches is limited. All this allows us the digital world, even the time stamp, when you log into the system. So let's say that even the date or time of enrollment can play a role, although - and I was talking now, I think with Marek Benda, about how objects are occupied, when objects are written in school, so the pupils sit by the computer and also click because interest in some objects is simply greater and the filling of the class has its capacity. If it was in a paper manner, if you were sending a list of items that the student wanted to sign up for, would something change about the trial? [[Unintelligible]] That letter would have come sooner. I think the student would have preferred it. Again, it would be difficult and there would be no actual control of whether or not anyone had benefited, etc. Why do I have this wide introduction? The advantage of the digital world is that there's a digital footprint in it. And I suspect, and Ondřej Profant even pointed out last week at the interpellation that if the timing of submission is resolved - and we see it in various other systems - it's important to keep an eye on it, it's important to audit so that someone doesn't have access to the system, and now I'm moving into the world of IT, to the so-called. Backend. Not that you're clicking on that page, and it sounds like mouse clicking, but it's not really human. In things where time is important, it's some kind of robot program that just fills out the form and sends it. That's where you use the form. Of course, the quickest and cleanest is access to the database where someone on the backend who knows the supplier or has some access, just uploads the project, and when it's badly done, it changes the time stamp, and that's how it's gonna get ahead of everyone. He finds the one who's the least, and puts a minus 00001 in it, I don't know how much it's been evaluated in the end. And I'm afraid that's what happened. I'm worried that this happened especially because the projects succeeded there and why these projects did. Therefore, and here the need to write this again, it is absolutely essential that the logs from those servers be requested to reach out to the supplier of the system and to verify that no one had any advantage in this regard, did not get ahead of it, or even did not happen that the so-called. He uploaded the projects to the backend right into the database. I think that's crucial. I'm not surprised the Minister isn't here today. I won't - It was said here - to joke that he was probably filling out a tax return, but he should comment on it. And so I would be in favour of going that way, and I believe that there will be some kind of filing for this process, and they really took advantage of the IT world that we don't have in that paper world, and they found out how the system was used and, in particular, whether anyone had access to the software itself, where the projects were recorded. That's the knowledge that people who normally work with computers have, they know how it works. Perhaps government representatives should talk about this often. Now the conference was Digital Czech Republic, which was organized by the largest IT experts. I think that the Prime Minister, Minister Dostálová, was there, which does not correspond to the fact that it is publicly said that whether x billion crowns will be divided either way, decides to click on the mouse when we are actually talking about the fact that when it comes to speed, it is usually done more sophisticatedly and sometimes also by actual fraud. And that's what the D.O.D. should investigate and disprove that suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, President Rakušan, then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate you, today is the International Nursing and Nurses' Day, and we certainly deserve our award after that crazy covido year. Unfortunately, as you can see, many nurses do not deserve to be appreciated in their hospitals for those projects where hospital management has worked very hard for several months. They can't. Those projects aren't gonna happen because somebody didn't get close to the outcome. Mr Kováčik, by your means, Mr President, spoke here about the fact that digitalisation is not self-saving and this is an example of how digitalization does not work. I would correct you, my colleague, through the President. This is the digitization of this government. Digitisation in Andrej Babiš's administration is a billion-dollar-click race. But we will certainly read in the ANO electoral programme that it has introduced many high-quality digital products. Here we have one of them, a digital product that cost many hospitals in the Czech Republic the possibility of further development. [[9.40 hours]] Mr Jurečka, by your means, Mr President, spoke about why Minister Arenberger will not speak. For a simple reason, he won't get out. The vineyards got in, and he'll be back in Vinohrady when his short ministerial mission is over. He's happy now. He may forget a little that, as a minister, he should no longer think only of his hospital, but he should think first of all about whether the health segment has been satisfied and whether such distributed subsidies will allow him to develop across regions and according to need. I'll allow you here to read what the governor thinks of the matter. This is specifically the letter from Mr. Governor Půta, to which we, as a club of Mayors and Independents, join. I'll skip the introductions and get to the brightest one. "For the reasons set out above, I would like to ask you to publish all the requests received, indicating the relevant time for the evaluation of the applications, up to the level of each second. I also ask you to submit information that will clearly show that the geographical location of each individual applicant, or the location of the device from which the request was sent, or the data transfer system in the Czech Republic, could not be affected from the position of applicants in any way. I hope that on the basis of this information it will be demonstrated that no unequal discriminatory access to applicants could have occurred - because this could not have been influenced by the applicant without the potential use of any exceptional or non-standard hardware, software or other tools - which could subsequently lead to time differences between the submission of individual applications and thus shift some applications in the final order of all applications submitted.' Does the D.O.D. realize there's gonna be a bunch of lawsuits? That it's gonna cost him a defense on the legal level? The applicants won't take this. They won't like the fact that they have information from IT specialists, for example, that the system's response should have been five seconds and already at 14:00 and 3 seconds the first applications are registered. There are already strange things here that just record that really and really could have been cheated. But above all, and in principle, we do not want projects to help people to be judged in this way. They're supposed to help patients, they're supposed to help our health care, which is shaken by the covid crisis. And we're here to rely on who wins a clicking contest or uses a better software or hardware tool to just be the first, or, worse, did he just have some way into the system better than the other one? Madam Secretary, please cancel this challenge. Cancel it. It's the only way we can avoid delusion. It's the only way the D.O.D. will avoid lawsuits coming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Now we still have priority rights. President Kováčik, then President Válek, then Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ma'am and gentlemen, I don't want to be part of this construction act. I will therefore ask that we end this debate as far as possible and proceed to the approval of the programme. But to his predecessor - what's his name? - Well, to the pirát gentleman who accused me of smashing machines, I'd like to say that some of the godfathers -- and I say the godfathers -- digitalization reminds me of that cult of fire worshipers. But as civilization progressed, we also learned that fire is a good servant, even an excellent servant, but woe is a very bad master when it dominates us. I just wanted to point out that she's the absoluteization of digitalization leading right here to these absurd endings. And I call on us to avoid these absurd endings, if possible, and not to excuse them. Once again, I ask that we put an end to this debate as far as possible and move on to the agenda for today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u19	President Válek has applied with priority rights. Then Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr President. One should take advice from the elders, so I won't delay. I would like to say that we have dealt with this issue and not only this, but also some of the issues relating to the Ministry of Health on Monday at AntiCovid. We've been dealing with other hospital directors. Perhaps the members of the Health Committee received letters from some of them today or yesterday, and we picked up signatures for an emergency meeting. We would like an extraordinary meeting to be dealt with not only by REACT, but also by problems with tax admissions, conflict of interest and some other things at the Ministry of Health. As soon as we agree, we will hand over the documents to the President of the Chamber of Deputies to convene this extraordinary meeting. I think we can discuss there, where we can work out the rules by which we will compete. So we're not talking about the coalition right now, we're not talking about the opposition, we're not talking about the TOP 09 or the Communist Party, we're talking about our patients, we're talking about our patients, we're talking about our patients, we're talking about our health care. And that's what we all care about. Because if you're sick, it doesn't matter which side you're in, who you're voting for, but what matters is what kind of disease you have. And we all have to realize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would only like to respond partly from a technical point of view to some of the things that have been said here. I would first agree with President Kováčik that the comparison of the IT to the fire, when he is a good servant, but a bad master, actually fits very well. And this is where we get into this situation where IT is used as a master, and those milliseconds just decide where your servers are. And if we were able to set up these systems so that we could get rid of any suspicion that there might have been something unfair about the backend - as the President said, something strange might have happened within the knowledge or access to some back door and the supplier of the system, which, as far as I know, is not in the Ministry, but is somewhere else - we're getting to the point where those grant applicants are going to go to those places where the server is based so that they can connect as quickly as possible, or even engage with each other in some offensive action so that they can slow down their competition at a given moment and be faster. And that's definitely the world I wouldn't want to go to. So I think it would be a good thing in the parliamentary culture for the Minister to speak, to answer at least partially the questions that have fallen here, or to promise to give them an answer so that we can move on. Otherwise, I'm afraid the discussion will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Then I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. We will vote on the entire proposal for a 102th meeting, as presented in writing. I'll give room for my colleagues to come back from the lobby, and I'll read the apologies. Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamáček apologizes for the morning meeting for work reasons. Mr Jakub Michálek, who I see, apologizes today, but I am reading his apology from both days today. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologizes today from 9 a.m. to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Mr Marian Bojko apologizes today between 9 and 10 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Lubomír Volný also apologizes today between 9 and 10 o'clock for work reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now vote on the agenda. Just a little while longer before you all settle in your seats... I think we can vote. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of approval of the agenda? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 161 Members registered, for 100, against 48. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We will now proceed to the only two items on the agenda for which the merged debate has been interrupted. I therefore open the item of the Government's bill of construction, the House's press 1008, the third reading, and the government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law, the House's press 1009, the third reading.
