ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u1	9. Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the necessary role of nuclear energy in decarbonisation of the economy I ask that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also be the rapporteur of this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. I thought I was gonna be a translator, but I'm gonna be a correspondent. I don't know if it's an unacceptable accumulation of functions, but if there's no other rapporteur or other candidate, I'm sure I'd be happy to take it. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, on behalf of the Government, I present on behalf of the majority a motion for a resolution on such a serious matter as the future use of nuclear energy. I must say that we have a great deal of agreement on this, which was also reflected in the last parliamentary term, when we, as representatives of the opposition, worked in the Government Committee on the Construction of a New Nuclear Source, and I must say, that is where, in principle, all the representatives of the then MPs agreed on this procedure. As you know, we haven't managed to direct the known taxonomy core as an emission-free source yet. We have prepared the motion for a resolution in the majority of the government, I must say, the designed Prime Minister Petr Fiala consulted the current Prime Minister in the demise of Andrej Babiš that there is a consensus. And I will allow myself to read the motion for a resolution so that I do not have to repeat it before the vote. I can also inform my fellow Members in the Senate that they will present the same motion for a resolution tomorrow, because tomorrow it is held by the Senate plenary and there is a good chance that the same resolution will be adopted by the Upper House. I have also given the text of the resolution, apart from giving it to the President of the meeting, to all the presidents and chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, but I will still read it because not everyone has it at your disposal, so I apologize, it is less than A4. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the Czech Republic has signed up to the climate commitments contained in the Paris Agreement and in the Green Agreement for Europe. It appreciates that the European Union's treaties recognise the right of the Member States to freely choose the composition of the energy mix and that the European Commission has repeatedly confirmed that it will respect technological neutrality when assessing low-emission resources. It stresses that the Czech Republic is only able, given its geographical conditions, to meet the above mentioned commitments in terms of the possibility of further use and development of nuclear energy. It recalls that the President of the European Commission has recently confirmed the irreplaceable role of nuclear energy in decarbonisation of the economy. It therefore states that nuclear energy must be fully recognised as part of the solution for decarbonisation of the economy. It cannot only be seen as a transition category, but it is an instrument that allows for a low-carbon transformation of management and makes it economically and socially sustainable in the long term. The sustainability criteria for low-carbon management transformation are to be technologically neutral and must not be distinguished either by generation of nuclear installations or by reactor technology. It also states that the Czech Republic intends to use natural gas in its mix as a transitional source. It therefore calls on the European Union to include gas as a transitional source and nuclear energy as an enabling source in the taxonomy of sustainable finance by the end of 2021, so that the Member States of the European Union that choose to do so can invest funds in their development under competitive conditions. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic believes that such a decision by the European Union will create a more favourable environment for the successful negotiation of the Fit for 55 legislative package during the forthcoming Presidency of France, the Czech Republic and Sweden in the Council of the European Union between 2022 and 2023. The Chamber of Deputies instructs Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to deliver this opinion to the European Council at its meeting on 16 December 2021.' I ask for the support of this resolution when we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u3	Thank you and, at the same time, thank you for taking up the role of rapporteur on this point, Mr Member. I will read an apology, today by the end of the day, for reasons of work, Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes, and for the rest of the day, Mr Zdeněk Vondráček will vote with a replacement card 28. [[right Radek Vondraček]] I am registering an application with the priority right of President Fiala and asking if you want to speak before the general debate is opened? [[Member Fiala doesn't want to get off.]] Okay, thank you for being kind. So I am opening a general debate and giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We, as the SPD, voted against the inclusion of this document at today's meeting, and I think it is right that I, as the club's chairman, should explain why. We have nothing against nuclear power, but we support the core. I was also a member of the Government Committee on Nuclear Energy in the last parliamentary term, and I know how important the construction of new nuclear resources for the Czech Republic is in the future, and there is essentially no alternative to decarbonising Czech energy without nuclear construction, because we are not a country able to build enough renewable resources to replace the core. [[17.30 hours]] In fact, we are in the SPD by not only defending the construction of two new nuclear blocks in Dukovany, but we say that we should start building further blocks in Temelín as soon as possible, because even Dukovany will not be enough. Dukovany's just gonna trade old nuclear resources for new ones, which means capacity won't increase. The core needs to be built, and in order to clear the way to the core, it is necessary for the European Union to recognise nuclear energy as a clean emission-free resource. So, then, of course, we agree with what is written here in this motion for a resolution. Yes, we should all run now and try to reduce energy prices for the future so that people in the Czech Republic do not get into financial energy problems. But the very first sentence, the first two lines, this motion for a resolution just prevented us from voting in favour of this resolution. The first two lines are: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the Czech Republic has signed up for the climate commitments contained in the Paris Agreement and in the Green Agreement for Europe." That means we have signed up - or the person who will vote for this - to join the so-called Green Deal, which means we will run to save Czech citizens as soon as possible from increasing their energy prices, but before we start running, we will de facto shoot ourselves in the knee here, so we won't run anywhere anyway. The SPD movement will simply never support Green Deal, and I think that in the future it will be something that will be condemned by the whole of Europe and the whole world. Because if I only take it to the Czech Republic, a million people in the Czech Republic are in income poverty. This is 20 percent economically active. As the Minister mentioned in Havlíček's resignation, an increase in electricity prices - for example - you, Minister, spoke about increasing by up to 70 percent, even without VAT, which we may try to cancel tomorrow, at least two parties in the Chamber of Deputies, in order to help these people - will get hundreds of thousands of people into debt traps. They'll have problems, they'll just get into financial, economic problems, just because of the red-green concept of a few ideologically deranged people. This means that - I repeat again - the SPD will never vote for Green Deal, which brings Czech citizens into trouble, nor will we sign up for the climate commitments contained in the Paris Agreement. So I hope I have made it clear that we consider nuclear energy to be the only alternative for us in the future, for Czech citizens, but we do not agree with the fact that we agree with the concept of Green Deal and with the climate commitments of the Paris Agreement in the first line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u5	Thank you, too, Mr President. With a factual remark, I see Mrs Jana Pastuchová registered here. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I don't need two minutes, but if I've listened well, you've apologized to Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček, and I don't think he's sitting here in this parliamentary term anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u7	I shall read again what I have said here, Madame. I apologized to Minister Adam Vojtěch by the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Zdeněk Vondráček also votes with the replacement card number 28 for the rest of the day. Radek. [[Mr Vondráček's name is Radek.]] In that case, I'm sorry. You're right, thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate? I see no one, in which case I am done with the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if he wants to take the final floor? [[No.]] Mr. plaintiff, you don't want to. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I wonder who is reporting for a detailed debate? Please, Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u8	I will just refer in a detailed debate to the text of the resolution, which I read at the beginning when I mentioned this point. I don't think it's necessary for me to read A4 here again, that everyone understands what we're going to vote on. So I am formally referring to the motion for a resolution that was made in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u9	I thank you and ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one else, so I conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if you would like to have the final word before the vote? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u10	Thank you, he won't let me comment on Radim Fiala's performance. I think that if we can speak Czech and understand the sentence '... notes that the Czech Republic has applied...', we note a fact that has already happened and not that we are voting on it today. That, in the motion for a resolution, would be that "the Chamber of Deputies is signing up..." So let me get this straight, that's right. We - I do not want to go into detail - the government majority here voted for the Paris Agreement and the outgoing government was for the Green Agreement for Europe. But we should have a common goal and a common goal is for the core to be recognised as an emission-free source. Which means and which wording we will use for this is not as important as wishing the Prime Minister in demise or new Prime Minister, in the interests of the Czech Republic, to succeed in promoting such an approach in the European Union. That's what I think from the experience I have from the government committee on the construction of a new nuclear bloc that connects us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u11	Thank you. Before I proceed to the vote, the President of the Fiala with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u12	Thank you. I think it's very simple. If you don't have a problem with that, cross out the first two lines, leave only nuclear power there, and we will be very happy to support it, and we will certainly all vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u13	Thank you. Since no one else is reporting and the motion for a resolution has been read, I will put it to a vote. I will continue to arrange for the Members who are outside the O.R. to come to the O.R. [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u14	Radim Fiala knows as an experienced parliamentary politician that this is no longer possible. However, I want to go to the majority, so I suggest we vote separately on the first indent and then vote on all the other indents as a whole. I don't think there's anything stopping it. Whoever like me wants to support all the indents will be in favour twice for those who want to support only part of the resolution, will once be in favour and once against. So I suggest, Mr Vice-President, that we vote separately on the first indent and then the second vote on the other indents. I think we can agree to this procedure, and this is how we can proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-001-009.u15	Thank you. Yes, this proposal can be accepted. Since I don't see anyone else, in that case, we will vote in two steps. First, I will vote on the first indent that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic states that..." Then the rest of the points. I am opening and voting on the first indent, as the rapporteur said in the resolution. Who's in? Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 15. 190 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 165, against 19. This proposal has been approved. I will now vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution as read. Initiating vote. I wonder who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 16. 191 Members and Members are registered, for 187, against no one. The proposal has also been approved. [[17.40 hours]] I will now vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? It is a vote with order number 17, followed by 191 Members, for 168, against 3. I note that this motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank you, colleagues and colleagues, and I am done discussing this point. Now, according to the programme, we will proceed to the polls.
