ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u1	Promise by Members Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the pledge of Members: Jiří Carbol, Josef Flek, Pavla Golasowská, Marie Jílková and Margita Balaštíková. First, I will ask the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, Member Helena Válková, to introduce us to the steps that this committee has taken and then read the constitution's prescribed promise to the Members in my hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, with all the Members gathered here, we have verified their mandate, everything is in order with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, so we can move on to the festive act. [[The present have risen.]] And I will read the Member's promise: "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u3	Let me welcome Mr Jiří Carbol, Mr Josef Flek, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, Mrs Marie Jílková and Mrs Margita Balaštíková, among us, and wish them every success in the parliamentary work. We shall first proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Oldřich Černý and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. Initiating vote on the proposal tabled. I said, who's in? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? I note that the vote number 1 of today's meeting took place in the following way: 172 Members and Members, for 168, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have hereby designated the verifiers of the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of the Oldřich Černý and of the Member Renáta Zajíčková. I say that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Jana Bačíková - health reasons, Romana Bělohlávková - work grounds, Romana Fischerová - health reasons, Mr David Kasal for health reasons, Mr Ondřej Kolář for health reasons, Mr Karel Smetana for health reasons, Mr Pavel Svoboda for health reasons, Mr Karel Tureček for health reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl for health reasons. They apologized from the members of the government: Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister, for reasons of foreign travel, Minister Marie Benešová for reasons of work, Minister Jana Maláčová for health reasons, Minister Miroslav Toman for reasons of work, also Minister Adam Vojtěch and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for reasons of work. Mrs Romana Bělohlávková withdraws her apology from today's meeting. We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 2nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. There are no proposals for a vote from today's grémia, which is why you, Members of Parliament, can now comment on the proposal for a programme. He first applied for the word in writing during 22. At 11 o'clock, President Tomio Okamura and others can apply now. That is why I am opening up a debate, or proposals, and I will ask President Okamura to present his proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as the first item in today's House meeting, I propose an extraordinary item in the agenda entitled The Discussion of Unacceptable Measures Related to the Covido Situation, which are ineffective and grossly violate citizens' rights. If the House doesn't agree to this, then I suggest we place this item as the last item in this House meeting's agenda. Only this year we recorded 37 judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court, which called the Ministry of Health measures illegal. In its judgments, it is eternally repeated that, by issuing an emergency measure, the Ministry of Health has exceeded its limits and that it has issued measures of a general nature contrary to the law and contrary to the law laid down in that way. Courts have repeatedly stated that government restrictions restricting civil liberties are not sufficiently justified by the health risks referred to by the Ministry. They also note that many measures are discriminatory and discriminate against a part of the citizens for no reason. [[14.10 hours]] I personally add that restrictions on freedom, restrictions on movement, bullying of entrepreneurs and citizens also harm citizens and their health. If there's a fair and brave doctor between us, I hope he'll confirm that stress directly damages immunity. If parts of citizens prevent them from playing sports, swimming, dancing, or having fun with friends in a restaurant, they simply forbid them to relax, so they once again harm their immunity. We know the numbers. According to a survey last year, overweight or obesity had two thirds of the Czech population. Their number has increased significantly since the last 2013 findings. Back then, 55 percent of people were overweight or obese. The results of the survey were presented to journalists by doctors from the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně and note that many people gained weight mainly as a result of government measures in connection with the epidemic of covid-19, during which they had less movement and more eating. Doctors point out that due to the increase in obesity in the population, the incidence of associated diseases and complications will also increase in the coming years, which will have a major impact on health system spending. Among the clients of the General Health Insurance Company, 7 percent of people who are treated with mental diseases have increased. According to expert estimates, however, psychic problems could have been caused by pandemics in up to a third of the population. As Martin Anders recently described in an interview, the head of the Psychiatric Clinic of the 1st Faculty of Medicine at Charles University and the General Faculty Hospital in Prague and the vice-chairman of the Psychiatric Society, cases of psychiatric problems related to coronavirus increased. According to the expert, people were more afraid of the impact of measures than of the covid itself. Ladies and gentlemen, covido terror not only reduces the risks of covido virosis, but increases them sophisticatedly. So-called experts haunt citizens with a high number of deaths, without having any, let alone a credible analysis of the causes of death. We know one thing for sure. About 10 percent of the people we drive to the hospital are infected with so-called secondary infections. Pneumonia is one of the most common diseases in the hospital. If a polymorbid person gets him, weakened, aged, then it's a death sentence. It's taboo in our country, but in the world, some experts say that pulmonary ventilators can be harmful. Of course you do, there's no question about that. Many people, covid necovid, get so-called fan pneumonia, and again the weaker die of it. The debate on the effectiveness of pulmonary ventilators was stirred up in his video, published on March 31, a doctor working on the New York E.R., Cameron Kyle-Sidell, who said: "We're treating a medical paradigm that isn't true. " According to this New York doctor, people with covid-19 disease are more damaging to pulmonary ventilators than helping. "I fear that misguided treatment will lead to a lot of people getting hurt in a short time," said the American doctor. Doctors are concerned that in patients with covid-19, the proportion of deaths in patients connected to pulmonary ventilation is significantly higher. New York data indicate that 80 percent of these patients are going to die, with British figures talking about 66 percent. Doctors leading Kyl-Sidell claim that the reason so many covid-19 patients connected to pulmonary ventilation die is acute respiratory distress syndrome. For example, Nicholas Hill, head of the pulmonary department and the intensive care department of the Tufts Medical Center in Boston, claims that the biggest problem is too hastily connected to fans. And what is the government doing in our republic? It motivates hospitals to buy fans and then fill them with patients who wouldn't even need them. This isn't a hoax. I didn't make that up. That's the message I got from the paramedics at Svitavska Hospital. There's a reason they broke the Omerta Act and talked about the hospital's strange procedures. For the hard work in the covid's departments, the management in quotation marks rewarded them with an extra crown of 60 cents an hour. Yes, you didn't overhear, extra crown sixty. The management prefers to buy overpriced equipment that allows them to collect even more money from insurance companies. Then the question arises as to whether, in the proper approach of the Ministry of Health, there would have to be so many victims of the covid, and I am already saying this from a more general point of view. Apparently, the answer is no. For all the money for vaccination and testing those who both didn't need, the government blew up sums that would be enough for several new fully equipped hospitals. If the government had preferred to invest in hospitals and in the salaries of those who work in hospitals for begging wages, we would have enough capacity and enough staff. Everyone sees this, but unfortunately, the health insurance companies and the paramedics, the honest paramedics, are afraid to talk about it. And these, of course, are the absolute majority, the honest ones. Of course, because the bad opinions in quotation marks are not only censored and banned today, but it is also standard that they are fired for them. The head of clinical biochemistry and hematology department at the border hospital of Ctirad Musil took the liberty - consider - to debug the covid and its impact on human health and was decommissioned. The fact that secondary infection dies in hospitals for nothing, plus 15,000 people a year, is - it seems - okay and does not deserve the attention of the Ministry. But to bag a covid, it's to get fired. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to challenge you: let us not ignore the trampling of human rights, whether it is freedom of movement, business or speech. Let us not terrorize our own citizens at every step and let us not even forbid them to breathe freely anymore. There is no true reason for this. The courts have said so many times. It is not acceptable for this country's government to tread on the constitution, ignore the constitution and unconstitutionally and illegally terrorize its own citizens. I beg you and I beg you, fellow Members, who have not yet lost your common sense, let us stop it. Let us call on the government, and not only this in demise, but also the next one, to comply with the constitution of this country, to respect the judicial decision to respect the freedoms and rights of citizens of the Czech Republic, to ensure that the measures that the government is doing are non-discriminatory, addressable and always duly justified. The fact that the government is now massively discriminated against by healthy non-vaccine citizens is inexcusable, not only humanly, but also from the point of view of medical science. The U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention, which is the leading National Institute of the United States of America for Public Health, and it is the Federal Agency of the United States under the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, has already made it clear, although it does not like and in the leaked classified report, that vaccinated people are spreading the virus to covid exactly the same way as non-inoculation. So lying about preventing the virus from spreading through vaccination is useless and it is completely inexcusable and inexcusable to say that limiting the movement of non-vaccines prevents the spread of infection. It is inexcusable to limit rights and freedoms to those who are healthy, who have good immunity, those who are not at risk and who are not threatening anyone either. I'm not just talking about people who've lost and who don't get to the hospital, even if they get to the hospital again, I'm talking about millions of people who don't have any measurable antibodies, but they have strong cellular immunity, so they can't get the virus or spread it. What have these people done to you, Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, that you forbid them to swim, dance, have a beer that you make them wear muzzles and stuff them with vaccinations that are of absolutely no benefit to them and can, on the contrary, be a risk? What have millions of people done so horrible that you bully them, terrorize them, stress them out, and do everything you can to weaken their immunity, to finally put them in the sick box? The extended Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court confirmed again a few days ago the existing caselaw on the issue of general emergency measures by the Ministry of Health with a national impact. In accordance with the Act on the Protection of Public Health, emergency measures in the event of an epidemic or a risk of its emergence may be issued only if it is intended to prohibit or restrict the contact of a group of natural persons suspected of being infected with other persons. If the outbreak is not the focus of the whole Czech Republic, it is not possible without further assumption that everyone is a suspect of the disease. That's the case law, that's what the extended Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court is commenting on. For those of the Ministry of Health who do not understand these words, I will translate this: you must not limit healthy people across the board. According to the court, the Ministry of Health must also base its decrees on the relevant facts. I quote the court: "The literal notoriety of the worldwide pandemic of covid-19 is not enough to conclude such a conclusion in itself. " End of quote. [[14.20 hours]] Let us further quote the findings of the extended Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court. I quote: "In order to interfere with fundamental rights as a result of emergency measures, the spread of the disease must be more massive and the disease must indeed be dangerous. In any event, the considerations of the Ministry would have to be reflected in the justification for the emergency measure.' So far, in no - I repeat the citation of the court and stress, in no - of the judicially reviewed measures, the Ministry has claimed in this regard no such thing and has not even attempted it. Let me say that this is an incredible slendrian and a really scary disrespect for the civil rights and freedoms that the ministry and the government are unconstitutionally trampling around. The quoted court also stated quite correctly that clear legal standards must not be rewritten in favour of one in quotation marks of greater good. Yes, in the name of good, the greatest crimes have been committed in history. Forgive yourself, fellow officers of the government, totalitarian manners. After all, if you really want to protect people from disease and death, then do something about cardiovascular diseases that are dying of 70 percent prematurely. And lean on the cancer that a third of us are going to get sick, and a quarter of us are going to die from it. These diseases aren't fluffy or virosis, they die hard on them, sometimes very painfully and very massively. But you'd have to ban the free movement of the brisket and shut down the fast food. And you would also have to open your eyes and see what and why it really threatens people's health. And no Dot saves people. The right system solution is a targeted strengthening of immunity and a healthy lifestyle. But apparently no one wants that, and on the contrary, you're destroying people's immunity. I would like to quote the philosopher Jan Konfršt. I quote: "Is it not worth considering how the frequency of using the word "immunity" in public space falls in favour of the word "inoculation"? How is this disproportion dramatically increasing, especially if the immunity mentioned is natural? How does this phrase become a red rag in front of the promoters of vaccination against covid-19? How are they ostracized by the decision to create sufficient resistance against the negative effects of the environment by their lifestyle?" End of quote by philosopher Jan Konfršt. It would also be nice to listen to doctors who say that as with other viruses, covid should be treated with available medications, even with a physician. Dear colleagues, let us stand up for our fellow citizens, stand up for innocent people terrorized and unconstitutionally bullied by the Ministry of Health and the Covid fanatics. If we don't, then we'll be responsible for crimes committed against citizens. And there is also a premise: if we do not stand up for innocent people today, then in the future there will be no one to stand up for us, for example, when we need it ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to approve of the inclusion of an extraordinary item proposed by me entitled The Discussion of Unacceptable Measures Related to the Covido Situation, which are ineffective and grossly infringe citizens' rights, on the agenda of this House meeting. If we place this item, I propose to vote on two resolutions in this text. First: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers current government measures in connection with the solution of the Covid-19 epidemic to be ineffective and, at the same time, grossly violating the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic." Second: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Government not to take any extraordinary measures contrary to the Constitution guaranteed by freedoms and which would be contrary to the Supreme Administrative Court's judgments." I would also like to read the public call recently signed by many renowned doctors, such as Professor Pirk, Professor Beran, Dr. Peková, and there are many and many others. So I'm going to read it, "As doctors and experts, we're particularly appalled by the following facts." It's a total of ten points, like ten points: "1. She resigned to the basics of clinical medicine. Instead of a medical history, clinical examination and laboratory findings, the disease is diagnosed" - quotes are here - "on the basis of a single nasal swab with a poorly-set PCR test. This in quotation marks disease is also found in completely healthy people who are constantly misguided and expensively tested, including children. 2. All healthy people are considered infectious on the basis of the presumption of guilt until they prove so-called infectivity through procedures that can prove no infectivity. For example, they will receive confirmation of infection-freeness without any evidence of infection-freeness.' Again, I am reading the challenges of renowned doctors who oppose the previous proceedings of the Ministry of Health and the previous government. "3. Lying is said that immunity from vaccination is better and longer than immunity from disease. This claim denies published data and the very foundations of immunology. 4. We are witnessing the violation of the Hippocratic Hippokratův - pressure is being put on non-compliance with medical confidentiality, restrictive measures are being abused against the laws of humanity, medical ethics are receiving serious cracks, and recommendations of the WHO and other authorities, including the verdicts of the court, are being violated. 5. From the beginning, proposals for cheap treatment have been rejected without further examination, and waiting for the all-saving vaccine has become an idol for months. Politicians" - that means government policies and some others - "have partly assumed competence for diagnosis, treatment and prevention. 6. After six months, it is clear that volunteering the vaccine was just another lie. There is pressure on vaccination, although it is already clear that the vaccine is not effective in preventing the transmission of the disease. 7. Vaccines are experimental, they do not have completed the third phase of clinical trials, they are not liable for possible future adverse effects of the pharmaceutical company. The vaccination at the railway stations and commercial centres, without writing a history, without careful examination and instruction of the vaccinated one, contradicts the principles of medical professionalism and ethics. 8. The whole epidemic is presented unilaterally, free discussion is not allowed, censorship appears, experts with opposing opinions are silenced, dehonested and referred to as disinformers, renegades or deniers, making the dictionary of official propaganda noticeably closer to the totalitarian party dictionary before 1989. 9. People have been haunted by an incredible media massage for a year and a half, which, unfortunately, also involves doctors and violates one of the main principles of medicine - above all, do not harm. 10. The government is unable to answer the basic question - when the measure will end. Clearly, even a zero number of positive tests will not lead to an end to restrictions, because "what if." This procedure is so arrogant and stupid that it gives rise to suspicion that it is a deliberate plan for the reduction of human rights and freedoms." So I read the challenge of many renowned doctors who publicly published the challenge. All these questions should be answered here in the debate at my very proposed point, which is interested in basically all ten million citizens of the Czech Republic. Everyone is interested because the government is implementing the measures. Finally, let me add that the SPD does not support the announcement of an emergency situation that the government is considering, because the government has abused it in the past for large-scale measures and lockdowns that, in our view, do not lead to the goal. It is necessary to return the possibility of free testing and, above all, to concentrate efforts to protect risk groups. In particular, risk groups should be allowed to test for antibodies. Working with this group must be done by practical physicians, who need to be given the opportunity to quickly inject available covid medications. When someone is negative for testing, they should be at the same level as the vaccine. We reject discrimination and segregation of non-vaccines. Getting vaccinated or not vaccinated is supposed to be the free choice of every citizen. [[14.30 hours]] Moreover, the government of Andrej Babiš, with effect from yesterday's day, introduces a so-called Bavarian model according to which healthy people are not allowed to go to leisure activities, such as pubs, cinemas and theatres, while vaccinated people can go anywhere. On the other hand, the government is shutting down the testing because antigen tests are insufficient, because the government has not secured them in sufficient advance. ANO's government in demise is adopting other non-systemic anti-epidemic measures. There is no reason to stop testing and to stop using antigenic tests. On the contrary, recognition of antibodies and negative tests is needed as evidence of infectivity. I say clear, not mandatory vaccination, not discrimination against healthy non-vaccines. The SPD also proposes, and we have already begun to collect the necessary signatures of Members, an extraordinary meeting of the House with one point: The debate on unacceptable measures relating to the covido situation, which are ineffective and grossly infringe citizens' rights. So the SPD MP has signed today, all of our 20 Members, and Vice-President of our club, Mr Radek Rozvoral, will today address the presidents of other parties' MPs, whether they would supplement us with the other twenty signatures, because we need forty signatures at an emergency meeting, so that if this point is not approved, we can have another opportunity, or we can create another opportunity to have time to discuss this country's extremely important issue in order to draw conclusions. In our view, the solution to the current covid situation is to protect risk groups and allow testing to detect antibodies against covid-19. At the same time, government measures need to be adapted so as to be able to demonstrate the infectivity and recognition of antibodies and negative tests. The trend is clear, and everything suggests that in 14 days of action, the government will tighten even further, and we in the SPD reject discrimination against the unscathed. We want to abolish the pandemic law and reject another possible announcement of an emergency. We have a valid crisis legislation that allows us to address the current situation. At the same time, we are collecting signatures under a petition against unacceptable measures related to the covid situation, which are ineffective and grossly breaching citizens' rights. [[The speaker shows the plenary petition]] The petition will already be downloaded at www.spd.cz today, which means to download both paper form and it will be possible to sign electronically to involve as many citizens as possible, because there are hundreds of thousands of citizens who naturally and rightly disagree with the current situation. We are also preparing to bring an administrative action against specific government measures that deny the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u5	Mr President, just to clarify: when would that point be included? You proposed this meeting as the last point of this meeting, do I remember correctly?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u6	No, no, I said I'd suggest it first - I've given two options... [[Yes, please.]] ...to give me the opportunity to take a positive approach here to the Members. So be the first point in today's meeting, and if it doesn't work out, then the last point in today's meeting. And there may be enough time space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u7	Thank you for the suggestion. Last item in today's meeting - you mean Friday?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u8	Okamura: Today means today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u9	Present, yes, second meeting, to be clear. That means it would be essentially a 34th point, a new point. Thank you for clearing that up. The programme is subsequently submitted to the Minister and Member Karel Havlíček. In the meantime, before he comes to the speaker's desk, I have two more excuses. From today's meeting he apologizes for the whole day or until the end of the meeting, Mr Vladimír Zlínský for health reasons and also asked for an apology by the President of the SPD Radim Fiala, also for the whole meeting and also for health reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to raise one more unpleasant issue at the outset, which we are not happy about at all, however, allow us to ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies for an explanation of the statement she has made in the context of an interview for the Report List and to which we simply have to respond. We need to respond because it is a completely scandalous lashing of a huge number of those who are currently trying to tackle the crisis, and not at present, but for almost two years. Let me read this statement: "I think at this point the intention of the government of Andrej Babiš is to do everything in its power to hand over the country to us in terms of the situation of vision, in its worst condition. " I stress that the word intention and worst of all has been used. To say one more thing. Of course, we respect the fact that the opposition has the right to criticism, it is perfectly normal. We are well aware of the role of the opposition. We understand that he has to be a hard opponent, we take that sometimes we ridicule ourselves, we understand that he's beating himself up with the reigning garniture. It's just part of the debate, and we can't get upset with the opposition acting like this. But at a time when we are experiencing one of the most challenging periods of our modern history, and not just us, but practically all the countries in Europe, at a time when Europe is clearly losing the fight against covid - unfortunately, I only respond to what the Slovak President said a few tens of minutes ago - and at this time when we say that it is our intention to create an environment that is the worst that is possible, we are actually saying that we are deliberately letting people die, because of course it relates to the time of the covide. Of course, something else can be said. It can be said that the decisions we have made have led to this and to this. We can even say that the decision was wrong, and we're not saying that we were just making good decisions. Of course, we made decisions that were not good, we apologized many times for them. But in any case, we did them knowing we were doing our best, best possible. But we can say that, as a result of making such a decision, there has been a situation or situation. Of course, we would react again and react in terms of how the opposition changed its views, how the emergency was rejected at a time when we had the most infected people here, and when we asked to extend the emergency for a few days so that we could take certain measures. We could talk about how the opposition was buying masks, how it suggested release at a certain time. And to a large extent, we could understand it because we wanted to believe that we needed to help the economy. All this can be discussed. But you accused us. You accused us of preparing and literally doing sabotage. And not just us, but us and a huge number of coworkers, because, of course, it's not just about the government. The government, of course, decides through several of its members, but the government negotiates and participates with thousands and thousands of co-workers on all these solutions today and on a daily basis. They're all those who go on the absolute edge of their options for one and a half years. They're the people who do the best they can. It's people who take it to health. These are people who risk their lives very often. They're paramedics, doctors, nurses, they're hygienists, they're firefighters, they're representatives of the army, they're police, they're volunteers, but they're also officials at our offices who write laws that write regulations that try to create support programs for businessmen to survive, who now and daily sit on busy infolines. And do we believe that these people are really part of some secret mission and that they participate in the fact that we want to create the worst possible environment? Do we think these people are unlawful? It's not like that. Within a few days or weeks, the current opposition will take over the government, and we wish it no harm, but let us realise that you will have to work with these people, with these people, and with these people, you will also have to deal with the crisis, and you will have to motivate them. How are we supposed to motivate them today when they hear this? Please note that this at the same time supports all the misinformation that we are all trying to fight together. There's a new messiah here today and every day. Once it's half-psychopath Landa, the second time it's Mr. Janeček, the third time it's someone else, and all these people try to messiah the way through misinformation to influence a small part of the population. And what do we tell them today, or what do you tell them? You're telling them that the government is doing everything it can to do only the worst. In other words, testing is the worst? In other words, the o-n mode is the worst? In other words, the o-T-N mode is the worst? [[14.40 hours]] What we're doing, we've agreed on a whole series of things with you! How can we say that we purposely lead this country to create the worst possible environment? Exactly those who criticize us today and daily in the sense that they provide misinformation will only use this. This is not really the unification of society as you promised, as you declared. And it is not at all an extradite view of the third highest constitutional factor in the country, as we heard here 14 days ago. I don't want to delay, and my performance isn't about obstruction. The aim of my speech is for you, please, Madam President of the House, to speak up and prove that this was indeed a targeted intention, in fact a sabotage of what is happening today in terms of resolving the crisis. And if not, in other words, you won't confirm your sayings or your sentences, we ask that you don't, not the government - we don't care about that, we have to be used to it - but to all those you offended to apologize to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u11	Thank you for the speech and for the next one, the President of the ANO and Minister Alena Schillerová signed up for the debate. And he excuses his absence from today's meeting of the House, Minister Plaga, for work reasons. Madam Secretary, Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u12	Thank you for the floor, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, I ask for the inclusion of a point concerning the emergence of new parliamentary clubs, because, as we all know, there is a potential problem with which the eyes are closing. We may all know Paragraph 77 of the Rules of Procedure, and if we read it, we will find that it is quite clear. Let me quote, "Stamp 1. Members may gather in parliamentary clubs, according to political parties and political movements, hereinafter referred to as a political party" - there is a legislative abbreviation - 'for which they have run in elections. Members belonging to one political party may create only one parliamentary club and the merging of clubs shall be admissible.'; We all know that the two blocs ran together in the elections, but after the elections, each entity nevertheless established its own parliamentary club, including the Pirate Party, which has only four Members. The Rules of Procedure allow for the creation of a new membership club regardless of the party for which the Members have been running, but in that case, according to paragraph 2, at least 10 Members are required, which the pirát also do not meet. The second paragraph states that "a new parliamentary club composed of Members belonging to a political party other than that for which they were elected in the elections or a new club of Members who have become independent Members during the parliamentary term may be established. At least 10 Members are required to establish a club according to the first sentence. Paragraph 78 (2) and (3) shall not apply to such a club. If it falls during the parliamentary term..." and so on. We also know that, once again, we have a number of legal interpretations that are often in direct contradiction. We have here the opinion of the House of Legislation, which is certainly well known to all of us, which considers the procedure legitimate. We have, for example, Mr Hasenkopf's interpretations which claim that such a procedure is not legitimate and is contrary to the law. I also read the opinion of Zdeněk Koudelka, who is of the same opinion. I have also read Professor Wintr's opinion, which is based on House legislation, but he says - even though he admits it - so he says: It is not clear! And there is no clear regulation, especially the fifth paragraph of Section 77, which would not be problematic. But like I said, looks are different, there's no question about that. However, I would not like to get into a situation where the Rules of Procedure will be bent in such a way that they will always comply with the force in the House, and we have just watched it silently. Our club, as well as many citizens who certainly write to you, is afraid that the House should not proceed in violation of the law, because in such a case the bows that these clubs officially make would be invalid. I think that the matter is serious enough for us to devote ourselves to it and, as the House, to express a legal opinion by resolution. I see this as important also for the future ruling coalition to remove doubts that its parliamentary clubs have not been set up in violation of the law from the very beginning. And a clear answer is also due to the public, which is intensely turning to all of us on this matter. I therefore ask you to include the point of Legitimity of the established parliamentary clubs. With this title: Legitimity of established parliamentary clubs. I don't think it's gonna take us a lot of time, we're not gonna want to stretch it out in any way, but we think it would be good to clear the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u13	Thank you for presenting the proposal. You didn't suggest a solid assignment unless I noticed, so it's just a point classification? Thank you for the clarification. There was a factual comment with another, but they are not, because the debate on the agenda is not being held. And now, Mrs Dostálová, I see another application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, fellow Members, I would also like to support the inclusion of a point concerning the establishment of parliamentary clubs. I really confirm that people's reactions are quite large, and if we talk about people expecting confidence in politics, trust in us politicians, I really think it's unfortunate that this House's new start is going on as it is so far. There's just some confusion - we've already had it at the first meeting when we were talking about the possible candidacy and election of Prime Minister Havlíček, and we're experiencing it now when we look at the Rules of Procedure Act, Section 77. I am really convinced that it is in the interests of the new House, but also in the interests of the new coalitions that have been running for the elections in order to clarify this paragraph. Once again, I would like to remind him: "Members elected to the House are entitled to the provisions of the MP's club at the beginning of the new parliamentary term as an independent political party. At least three Members shall be required to establish a club according to the first sentence.'; Ergo follows from this, and as individual citizens say, of course, that they are normal people who read the laws, and that is clearly clear to them, and it is necessary to know the answer that Members of the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and STAN are not entitled to the MP's club under this paragraph, even together, because the coalition is not a political party, and not everyone individually, because none of the designated parties was running separately. How to solve this mess § 77 para. 5 Rules of Procedure and enable the House to function normally? I'm being written by people who share in two camps. One person says that it is necessary to bend the law, that it is not the first time in the Czech Republic, which, of course, is not a good signal. And then, of course, there are the others who ask the Constitutional Court to deal with this, so that we can actually come to a conclusion, not only with the Vice-President Havlíček, but also with regard to Section 77. And even some lawyers who turn to us say there's a solution, there's a solution, which, of course, can be interpreted in this way, so that the political party is the coalition. The coalition is a political party that ran for election. So we had two political parties that ran in the elections, and this is the coalition of the COO and the Pirstan coalition. Therefore, even in the opinion of the lawyers, the parliamentary clubs in the new House should be the coalition of SPOL as one of the MPs, the PirSTAN coalition as the second MP club, of course the third ANO and the fourth SPD. [[14.50 hours]] I believe we'll place a point that we'll actually discuss it. I'm not a lawyer myself. There are many lawyers here, and I would really like to see the opinion that we will take in this section within the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u15	Let me just remind you that under § 54 para. There is no debate on the Rules of Procedure, so I cannot allow factual remarks for this debate. That's just for the MP who's logged in. And now Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has applied for the floor with priority rights. In the previous contribution, there was no proposal to include a new item or change of the programme. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at this point, to speak with priority on the agenda, and I would like to refer to this point, which has already been presented here by the President of our club, the Legitimity of the resulting Members' Clubs, so I would like to include it as the 31st item of this meeting. At the same time, as our Madam President has spoken here and has spoken of § 77 para. 5 Rules of Procedure concerning the emergence of political clubs, and many have been said, so I would like to return now to October 8 and 9 when elections were held for the Chamber of Deputies. Each of you will remember that there were 22 political subjects running, and if you all find the www.volby.cz website at this point, the first thing that pops up on this page is the distribution of mandates to parties that crossed the line to get to the Chamber of Deputies. It's four subjects. ANO entity that has received 72 mandates. The SPOLU entity, which received 71 mandates, the Pirates and STAN entity, which received 37 mandates, and the political entity of the SPD, which received 20 mandates. This means that from 22 subjects, four subjects came to the Chamber of Deputies. So by clear math and from what has been said here, and when the public looks at it, four political clubs should be created on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. As has been said here, there is a great legal contradiction that says according to the provision that four political clubs were to be formed. At the moment, we have eight clubs created, which means that this does not correspond to how many subjects were running at the moment and which came to the Chamber of Deputies. As has been said here, we can get into a major collision, especially with the fact that if there is no clarification on this matter, so all the actions that are currently being done within the framework of the provisions of these political clubs, so it could also happen that all these acts will be null and void. Therefore, we must really show the public how it has been said here that there is no bending of the Rules of Procedure, especially by the majority that has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies today. I'd still like to go to 2010. In 2010, she ran for the Chamber of Deputies TOP 09 with the support of STAN. They got 16,7 percent and had 43 mandates, of which 9 had STAN. They had one club and they had one president of the MP's club, which was Petr Gazdík. In 2013, the Mayors also ran for TOP 09, won 28 MPs and also had one club. Therefore, I would like to ask all of you to include this item in the House plenary. I think it is important that this point be included and discussed. I therefore repeat that this item is asked to be included as the 31st item of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u17	Thank you for presenting the proposal. The President of the Pirates' Club, Jakub Michálek, is now registered, followed by Mrs Válková's application. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Now I've learned that I'm not really a chairman, or I'm chairman of nothing, so I guess it's gonna be to object to an ANO movement. I think we have some very important things to deal with right now - it's a covid to cope with the crisis. The residents are watching us, they don't want any more unnecessary restrictions. They want the pandemic to be competent. Indeed, if the President has said that the current government of Andrej Babiš does not give us the country in good condition when it comes to covid, I think that is merely a statement of fact and it is not possible to argue with it. I think the parties should reach into their conscience if someone from the ANO movement is talking about misinformation. What's the reason we have a small number of people vaccinated? Wasn't it because the Prime Minister, instead of taking the greatest part in the vaccination campaign and building confidence, spread disinformation among people about moving into their huts by migrants? I think it was a very bad thought that the government did not focus on vaccination so that we could be on it as well as a number of successful Western European countries. In the vaccination, we lag behind Vietnam, Uruguay, Cuba and many similar countries where we should be able to overcome them. And that is the real problem that we should be dealing with, not creating substitute problems here. First, on the issue of questioning the legitimacy of the members' clubs, let us distinguish legitimacy and legality. What you're talking about here is legality, compliance with the law, various legal interpretations and so on. Legitimateness is given by people's consent. When I talk about us, the pirát and the starosta voted for 830 000 people, most of which, say, preferred the pirát, so there's no way the problem of legitimacy is here. We have also been telling voters from the beginning, and the voters have chosen us to form two parliamentary clubs. We treated them quite honestly and openly. As far as the legality or regulatory level is concerned, it has already been said that there is an opinion from the legislative department. I note that this is not a bending of the Rules of Procedure, because it has long, long before the elections, when possible amendments to the Rules of Procedure were discussed, and there is a department in charge of the legislation of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, which can hardly be accused of being party-managed, because it was subject to the Chancellor of the Chamber of Deputies, and he was subject to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who was a member of the ANO movement, so the legislative department stated: "In accordance with Section 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. At the beginning of the term of office, Members elected to the House shall be entitled to the establishment of a member's club as an independent political party or movement. At least three Members are required to establish a club. This amendment was introduced into the Act in 2006 in response to the interest of creating the Green Party's membership club. The formulation for an independent political party is inaccurate and unclear in the context of § 77. Indeed, a literal interpretation would not allow a club of Members elected to the House to be formed on the part of a candidate in a coalition, it would not be possible to establish partial clubs or coalition clubs. Such literal interpretation must therefore be rejected as incorrect to absurd. In that provision, there is therefore a gap in the legislative department's view as it does not remember the coalition. Using an analogy, we therefore import that it is possible to establish a club for each party associated with the coalition elections if the club has at least three members. The establishment of one club from the parties running for the coalition elections is also possible. Therefore, we do not identify with the interpretation that at least 10 Members are required to establish a club of political parties running in a coalition pursuant to Paragraph 77 (1). This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[15.00 hours]] So this is the interpretation that the legislative department had long before the elections, and all the club presidents, then MPs, had the opportunity to meet it. I knew him at the time, and I believe he was also available to other club presidents, and no one ever questioned him back then. So now it's going to be a purposeful party thing, and I think that's how we should deal with it. As for the examples that were made here in 2010 regarding the TOP 09 with the support of the Mayors, this was not a coalition candidacy, or the legal case does not apply at all, because the gap occurs only in relation to the coalition, and not in relation to independent candidates. At the time it was one electoral body, not a coalition, so the argument that the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies said does not affect the present case at all. These are the reasons for which I think that we should concentrate - if anything - in this Chamber of Deputies, on the good management of the crisis situation, on how we can be both supportive and executive in order to manage this, so that there is a smooth transfer of power, but not to bring up these special-purpose issues, which are merely to question the legitimacy that is the result of the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u19	Thank you. Even in your speech, there was no concrete proposal for a new point or some firm inclusion, and I remind you once again that there is no debate on this point and therefore no factual remarks, so I am erasing them. The next one is on the agenda for the meeting of Mrs Helena Válková. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will try to be an example of what a speech should look like to the extent of the agenda, but, of course, some of the comments or comments that have been made here, they will probably not let me make my speech as short as it should be. First of all, I would also strongly propose to add a point to § 77 para. 5, i.e. as item number 31, when the number has already been mentioned here, on the agenda of our meeting, not because we would be party to it here, how, who, what he has committed for his benefit or for his benefit, but to clarify whether we will therefore, in the future, follow and respect, or at least follow the opinion of the legislative department, or whether, as Members who have obtained a mandate with the help of study or at least knowledge of the relevant provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the Constitution, of the Rules of Procedure, we will also take our own view with the help of experts, constitutional lawyers. Therefore, I personally think that it would be worth taking a look at it through the optics of the Charter of Fundamental Freedoms, Art. 22, which tells us that the legal regulation of all political rights and freedoms and its interpretation and use must enable and protect the free competition of political forces in democratic society, and certainly both sides, my previous speaker, by your means, Madam President, Mr Michálek will surely agree that his optics may be a little different from my optics, but we should have a constitutional conformity of our interpretation in our result. So why not put it as point 31 when sanctions for doing this, if we've done this wrong here, could also be nullification of some of our actions, or at least questioning some of our actions. That's the first point. And second point. So all I have to do is stand up for myself, and now, please, consider me a bit of a memorial, that sometimes you actually say a statement that he then regrets. I remember a few such statements, but Mr Karel Havlíček, Mr Karel Havlíček and Minister Karel Havlíček respectively, did not want an apology, or an explanation for what was said here in general, as Mr Michálek presented it here, through your way, Madam President, but there was a word that I believe could slip in there on purpose, without - and now I am a little bit of the President - wanting it in fact, because I cannot imagine that she would suspect this government of deliberately doing wrong to her citizens through all those that have been discussed here. And I'm saying that as someone who's done some sayings in the past, for which he either had to apologize or at least regretted them. And finally, third time. I think we're going to vote for a new Vice-President in a moment, and I just wanted to point out, in this context, that we should keep an eye on and also compare the way in which the one we are going to or won't vote, even in the light of this discussion, and I think it can give us an answer to the question of whether or not we would like one. And I apologise, Madam President, I have also indeed deviated from the agenda of the meeting, but I am joining my previous speaker, Mrs Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with a proposal to include that point in the discussion and to draw the consequences from the interpretation of Section 77 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure as item 31 of our meeting. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u21	I thank you, but there was also no new proposal, only, as has been said, a confirmation of the proposal. And I would like to point out that there should really be proposals in the performance, so with the benevolence that this is only two meetings of our new House, we will approach this, but it should actually be heard here for the form, so that for the next time MEPs will actually report with proposals to include or change the agenda of the meeting. At this point, I'm no longer registering any applications... So, once again, the Minister and Member Havlíček claim the priority right to the agenda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u22	Madam President, thank you. So I will finish what I said here in the introduction to do everything. I therefore ask that it be included as item 1 with the following title: Inappropriate statements by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to deal with the covido situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-001-901.u23	Thank you for the clarification. I'm asking again if anyone is applying to this point? If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed proposals, in the order in which these proposals were submitted. I would like to call you all back to our hall first and also unsubscribe all present to reclaim our voting cards. Once the number of Members has settled, we will be able to vote. In the meantime, I'll read the last apology that has arrived. It is an excuse for Mr Martin Kupka from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, between 15 and 16 and subsequently from 17 to the end of the day, without giving any reason. Once again, we ask the newcomers to sign in with a card and we will decide on the inclusion of points as presented in the debate... on this point... this is not a debate, to be exact, on the agenda. [[15.10 hours]] The first was the proposal made by Mr Tomio Okamura, President Tomio Okamura, to include a new item under the title Discussion on unacceptable measures relating to the conflict situation that are ineffective and grossly infringe citizens' rights. First, we place this point... or we vote on the possible inclusion of this point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 2 has ended, but here I object that the voting system does not work for the honourable Member - now I am sorry, I do not remember the name yet, but I must therefore declare this vote confusing. I'm going to check you all out again, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards. I'm signing you off again. Please log in with your cards again. Looks like we've got a broken device. I'll check you out one more time, and please sign up again with your cards. Mr. Kukla, I've already found it, so it's all right now. Looks like we're logged in. I don't see any objection from the O.R. that the device doesn't work. Therefore, please, once again, let us know what we are voting on. This is the inclusion of a point, as proposed by Mr Tomio Okamura. Once again, I will repeat the title of this point: discussing unacceptable measures related to the covido situation, which are ineffective and grossly breaching citizens' rights. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 3, 180 Members and Members were enrolled, 18 of whom were against 106. The proposal was not accepted and the point was therefore not included. It is not possible to vote on its firm inclusion. Another proposal was made by the Member and Minister Karel Havlíček, who subsequently added the title of the item. This should therefore be the inclusion of a new point, namely the Inappropriate statements made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I hope that's exactly the name he was meant to be. Isn't that right? Yes. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item under this title. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 4, 181 Members and Members voted in favour of 83 of them, against 94. The motion was denied. It is not possible to vote on solid inclusion. Next in line was the proposal made by the President of the ANO Alena Schillerová parliamentary club. It is once again the inclusion of a new item on the agenda of the meeting, under the name Legitimity of the resulting parliamentary clubs. I'm putting it to a vote. Initiating vote on the inclusion of this item. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 181 Members and Members voted in favour of 84 of them, against 88. The motion was denied. The next is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. She suggested a solid inclusion of a point that we didn't just set up for the meeting. There was no proposal from Mr Michálek, and there was also support for the inclusion of the point by Mrs Válková. We have therefore dealt with all the proposals for the agenda. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the final vote number six, 181 Members and Members were signed up, for 169 of them, against none. The proposal was adopted, i.e. the agenda of the meeting was approved as it was presented. I already have an organizational announcement in advance. I'm calling on Wednesday 24th. 11th and Thursday 25th. 11. there will be room for setting-up meetings of the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be interrupted, our negotiations, until Friday 26. 11. We can therefore proceed to the item approved by the agenda. It's...
