ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u1	United debate on paragraphs 4 and 5 /print 1008 and 1009/ So please bring it together on the display device, so that all the applications that have already been delivered are merged there. At this point, I have a priority right with the ODS club's opinion, but I don't know if there is any interest in voting earlier on some of the procedural requirements. I presume that is for the debate, Mr... if Mr Kupka prefers, I prefer the rapporteur, but otherwise I have Mr Kupka's enrollment as I have taken over. dobře, Mr. Mr. Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u2	I'm so sorry, my colleagues and I have been tuning in now, perhaps a rare but emerging agreement between the coalition and the opposition. As rapporteur, I also gave my opinion on this. Now, Mr Steering Session, I will allow myself as rapporteur to enter into a general debate as standard, which I would be able to do. [[Vice-President Pikal: Yes, we are already in the general debate.]] So yes, and I want to respond to my previous speakers, even if they can't listen to me right now, because they're dealing with our counterproposals regarding the deadline or the length of the interruption of the second reading. But I will use that time for a brief argument, as Martin Kupka said, for our comprehensive amendment, or against the opposition. Martin Kupka - I wrote those three arguments very carefully - first he said that our proposal inappropriately interferes with the division of the state administration into subsidiarity. Well, to a certain extent, it's true that the intervention is to a certain extent large. I was in the material, in a book called Czech and Czechoslovak law until 1945, searching for where the cadastrals were created, at what time, and where separate communities with their excavators and their self-governing powers arose, and that, my friends, was behind Josef II at the end of the 18th century, so since then we have set something like this here. But I don't think we're supposed to be mentally at the end of the eighteenth century, the nineteenth, looking into the future, into the twenty-first century. And I really didn't find anything inappropriate there. If you look at an average large community with extended scope, those employees who are now in the construction department are units of percent, maybe up to 10% of all municipal employees. So, really, the words that this is an inappropriate intervention, or, as Marek said, the Výborný, complete destruction of the authorities, the division of the delegation to the municipalities, I certainly cannot agree with that. But I agree that - as they say, who is afraid, must not go into the woods - it is courageous. And let me just remind you: in this delegated capacity to this day and so on, the registers, the population records, the IDs, passports and so on will continue to work. We're really just talking about building rights. Martin Kupka also argued that it would bring unnecessary costs. We're kind of spinning around here in these counterarguments. We explained that the system, as proposed in the comprehensive proposal for a single report, would be gradually under way. If you look into the material, from 1 January 2022 the authorities will be equipped with personnel, that is to say, regional bosses will take up the highest one, which will be appointed by the government, those managers in individual regions who will enter into negotiations with existing regional authorities, with municipalities, and they will start discussing whether the employees will pass, whether the premises will be rented or new and so on. In other words, we still assume that the existing workers and experts in the territory will only change in quotation marks their superior or employment contract, but we will certainly not build anything new, huge, robust. And as I said, if we're going to be successful this year, it's actually a year and a half to start the system, until July 1, 2023. [[16.40 hours]] One more argument that I think, even colleagues from the opposition, should be important and strong for you, and please listen carefully to it. What is not yet in this comprehensive proposal, and we are working on it and we want to prepare it, are the so-called four artifacts of cities and municipalities. We discussed them last week, not with all of them, but with some representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and I must say that colleagues not only as Members but also representatives of the regional city of Pardubice and also regional representatives approached me very much. This is what we are doing, and we are ready to submit an individual amendment. We are still waiting for discussions with colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development, let it be legislatively clean, but now I also appeal to Marek Výborný. In these four urban objects, I, if I send the material, we very strongly - and that was a very strong argument for me - are promoting and supporting the municipalities' self-government, the strength and role of municipalities in the area of spatial planning, so that the councils can decide for themselves what they want, where they don't want, where they don't want to make changes to the territorial plans relatively operationally and quickly, in other words, so that it is within their separate, non-transferred competence. We also want to strengthen the role of small municipalities there, so that it is not that someone orders them to make them one, that they will be able to make them stand, but that they can decide for themselves who they want, which the nearest community with extended scope will help them with this plan. Now I say this in illustration or random terms as some of the arguments we have received from representatives from the chamber of statutory cities from fellow mayors of those cities, not only for large cities, but also for municipalities. And this is an argument, which also strengthens me internally, that really to the self-government of all sizes - I repeat, it is not yet in the proposal, I will give it about next week - the role we will strengthen their own authority. Another illustration example. Our colleague from the Pardubice Region, Mayor Litomyšl Dan Brýdl, gave me an example of how Litomyšl defends himself or how he arranges for her to be a party to the proceedings in the territory of her municipality. They do so by historically having different stripes, pieces of territory around the village, to be the neighbor who had to be addressed. We want to avoid this too, not to use such a solution. We're looking for - We do not have it clear yet - the way or the way in which municipalities could really be sure that in each building procedure in their territory they will be a party to the proceedings, now I will say it in free words, as if to some extent the institution concerned, which simply cannot be bypassed. These are, I'm telling you, illustratively, moments that really strengthen self-government, put in their hands tools. Please, then let's look at it that, in addition to the technical implementation, the issue of the building permit, it will actually be just a technique which, professionally, within the time limits that it will keep and so on and so on, should be realized by the building office in the role of the same institution. So much for a quick reaction to my previous speakers' arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u3	Thank you. Okay, now with priority rights with the ODS club's opinion, Mr. Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u4	Once again, Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable colleagues. Of course, we are applying to the amendment that we participated in. I will introduce him in detail in a moment and at the same time confirm our procedural proposal, which is important in terms of really having the opportunity, if today the Chamber of Deputies - or tomorrow or the day after - will vote as a carrier for one of those comprehensive amendments, so that we all, who consider it important, can find new amendments. That deadline should be sufficient, because it's really complicated material, complicated law. We consider it important that a period of 31 days, or a period of time read by a colleague Výborný, interruption by 31 March, is indeed preserved here. It would be correct, and it would really make it possible to avoid unnecessary misconceptions, perhaps in the form of legislative errors. That's our proposal. We will, of course, propose that our comprehensive amendment be the carrier, but in any case, we will stand by for the interruption to take place by 31 March. I will start right away with what is actually the most important in terms of our comprehensive amendment. We are resisting the emergence of a new mega-building office because we simply believe that the creation of a separate office alone will not be able to solve the problem, but will create new problems. A colleague of Kolovratník said that they didn't actually intend to create anything world-class, nothing significant. More than 13 000 officials are involved in issuing building permits. The new structure would therefore include new 13 000 officials, 13 000 civil servants, which must necessarily be created as new and will be created under the regime of the Civil Service Act. That's reality. Yes, there will be a discussion on the possibility that officials from other offices, from existing construction offices, but not only from them, but also from the authorities that are engaged in the issue of opinions on individual construction projects, i.e. from the state authorities concerned, from the environmental unions, from the transport unions and the like, so that the government really integrates in this area. What's that gonna mean? That they will also be disrupted, the current collectives, existing unions, which at the moment include both officials who express themselves purely to the administration, and those who have the task of self-government. While these offices, such as the regional authorities, were conceivable representativeness, it will be complicated in the future, because the traditional ties will just fall apart. And it could be a threat to the expert. At present, and anyone who has ever come into contact with the construction authorities will confirm that there is a shortage of people with appropriate qualifications. This is one of the biggest problems in the current exercise of building law. The moment you create a new building office, however, you do not remove this serious problem, on the contrary, you deepen it, because you are unable to ensure that all those who are today engaged in building law decisions simply go to the new building office. How would you force them to do that? Even in the debates during the preparation of the law, mayors say that, naturally, the mayors will offer those people who should leave to stay in cities and municipalities and engage, for example, in investment construction, because cities and municipalities there simply hurt the current situation. So the idea of creating an office here at once that miraculously heals all the problems is a really dangerous chimera. In the analysis, the Ministry of the Interior discussed and described possible costs. It's not like the opposition sucked it out of their finger, I'm stressing. Those are really the numbers the Ministry of the Interior came up with and determined both a minimalist and a maximumist variant. Clearly, there wouldn't be construction offices everywhere in the green meadow, but somewhere, I guess. And so do you hear from the mayor's mouth that they don't have enough offices and that the other thing they're fighting is just a lack of space. For what reasons would they come to a new office, which, of course, will also want their seats, their premises? Another important thing was said, and it is also very important in terms of performance and quality of the administration. Today, a common citizen who handles his affairs and goes with a request for a building permit knows who is responsible, who is the head of the construction office and who is the secretary and is relatively close to him. When deadlines are extended, it is naturally the first place where criticism and the requirement to respect deadlines can be applied. The moment this goes away, when it won't be one institution, I can imagine it very vividly in the case of the Central Bohemia Region. Do you think any of these people, like Brandýs nad Labem, would just find a specific person in Zborovsky, who's gonna be the boss of that worker in the case of the Brandy office? In addition, the performance will be even more complicated, because he may go to the local town hall, but he will go to someone who will not be subject to the local secretary of that office at all, he will have nothing to do with it. In this regard, it will be even less understandable to him than it is today. [[16.50 hours]] This is one of the important reservations, one of the essential things. Yes, with the amendment of the law, we're going to break up the current mixed model. I have been involved in debates with the authorities and with relevant regional workers, either with the councillors or with union leaders. I draw attention to the serious problems in that if you would like to create a new office today and transfer both the workers of the construction offices and the individual workers, the officials, for example, from the Department of Environment, what will happen? Now it's a setup, for example, in the Department of the Environment, where people really express themselves both on matters of government and often combine self-government in their work and activity. So it's going to mean we're going to have to have two instead of one place, but we're not going to have the relevant experts. And this is exactly where the problem is that the construction administration can stop. And again, at the beginning, it was the Ministry of the Interior, which was purely practical for this serious problem - I am not speaking academically now, we really know the situation in cities and municipalities, even at the edges, and we know what it would really mean at the moment when such a bureaucratic structure was created. Moreover, I really do not believe that a bureaucratic institution is the solution to the problem. Have we ever noticed in history that the emergence of a new office would simply solve the problems we have been struggling with for years? I haven't met it. What's typical of every office, and I'm not saying that in any bad way? Just that it creates naturally new directives, new rules, creates organizational order, various other documents, its own forms, forms about how internal information will work, how personalistics will run. Everyone who started a new institution, not only official, where it's even more complicated, but who started a new firm and was bigger, so this is just a rather complicated agenda, and you're going to be struggling with missing people who understand the law. And it will be all the more difficult that those who would cross there know the current law, now they would have to work with the new law. There will really be a new group here, a new huge set of complications, which, even if we overcome it, will not bring the desired effect, will not bring an improvement that corresponds to the costs spent. That is why we have come up with a solution that is different, which is important, from the good experience of a number of authorities, where they have been able to deal with how building permits work today, where they do not need several hundred days as in Prague, but where they are able to do it in 60 or 90 days from the application to the decision. Yes, there are such construction offices and they are characterized by being able to reconcile internal processes within their organisation, the existing law, so that it works better so that the relevant city officials in charge of the environment get in close contact with the construction office worker and, together with him, participate in what will be left of the office. New legislation was not needed for this, both the current administrative order and the construction law make it possible. As a result, at the other end, a satisfied citizen who has his affairs resolved in the order of administrative time is able to build, and in addition, he will receive real help from those who understand it. It's a coveted situation, that's what it's supposed to look like. And instead, we're inventing a new mega-construction office. We do not, therefore, prevent such a thing from happening, and we are trying to propose a way to do this without a new bureaucratic apparatus. The answer really lies in the model I was talking about. Ensure the exercise of building rights in the form of current ones, both municipal construction offices in cities with extended scope and smaller authorities, which will meet the conditions which the Ministry has already drawn up and we identify with them to a large extent, any adjustments would be a matter of really cosmetic. It is clear that, for example, single-headed construction agencies are real limits for the exercise of building law, because simply at the moment that one official is sick or on vacation, the construction office is simply standing. Here we find a consensus and it is possible to do so so that it works on existing larger offices, and it worked well, with important local knowledge and without breaking down current ties as well as professional links within working teams. At the same time, we are counting on this, and all three proposals are based on this, which is a common denominator, that in this House we have managed to approve legislation for the digitization of the building process as important and necessary conditions for us to reach the 21st century. I will describe the principle very quickly because it is important for how our model presented in the comprehensive amendment would work. The moment you have a digital tool, designer or builder in your hand stores the project documentation in electronic form into the data repository. At the same time, the builder places his application in the system through the portal. An important thing already for important simplification - many people today complain that in Třebíč he has a slightly different procedure, a slightly different form than in Frýdek-Místek. But the moment one platform works everywhere, one portal builder, these methodical issues in themselves are uniform. Of course, it does not solve all the problems in itself, but it greatly simplifies at this point the answers of many people to what is bothering them - simply a uniform environment, and what is important is the monitoring of deadlines not only for the builder, but also, of course, for all the officials who will comment on it. This fundamentally changes the work of the construction authorities themselves. We had the opportunity to really see this in practice in some countries of the world. We discussed with Czech architects who in such a system prepared for remote construction in the United States of America or Finland and warned us where there were pitfalls and where it worked well. But they agreed on one thing: such a form allows for a much better and more transparent control of public administration and removes completely unnecessary bureaucratic apparatuses. We set another important option for this model because we know well - and neither the comprehensive amendment by Mr Kolovratník nor the government proposal can solve and resolve possible conflicts with protected public interests. It cannot solve when the project finds itself in conflict between hygiene and between firefighters, the environment and between firefighters or any other body concerned. If we want to solve such problems, experience from other states says: you must bring those responsible officials to one table and look for conditions that would allow such a purpose to be built, or perhaps do not allow it if it is not possible. But the key thing in which, by the way, municipalities and cities are given a key role in our proposal, i.e. self-government, because they are automatically participants in conciliation procedures. This is one of the important plane elements of strengthening the institutions in this negotiation and definitely an element that is very important, so precisely in the process at the moment the conflict appears, we engage in such negotiations where, at the end, the conditions are to be fulfilled and where, at the end, there is an agreement of all the key partners for the relevant building permits. It's really very important. This does not involve either of the other proposals, yet we know from experience that if they really are to overcome problems, they are doing something similar in those offices today. This is where we put it into the process. There was a complaint that we were extending the deadline. I can clearly say no to this - we are doing this, in relation to simplifying the life of the builders within that period, we can also include obtaining statements from network managers, but also the conciliation procedure that has just been mentioned and all the steps that lead to success. So it's also more transparent in this regard, and we're simply telling people the truth about how long the time can be, because the moment you put the task of a small builder who wants to build a garage, that he has to run around everything himself first, you can just write him off for two, three months. You'll have the advantage of not putting it into that length, but in the life of the person it'll just have the same effect, unfortunately not. The solution we come up with is that if you, as a builder who never came into contact with it, it's your first construction, then all those other steps for you can be done by the construction office. They don't have to if you choose another path. But just like in other countries, you can sign up for this solution with one click, submit it, and then the next steps are implemented by the relevant construction office thanks to the tool that the builder has in the portal. A concrete practical solution based on the reality of well-functioning construction offices. [[17,00 hours]] The result that we guarantee is that on average we would get to 90 days for simple constructions and for more complex ones for 120 days. Even with the simplest ones, we'd be able to manage to issue a building permit in 60 days. At the same time, we are simplifying all further steps thanks to this process. We do not need any further directives, new official buildings, offices, cars, other civil servants under the Civil Service Act, but we are able to make do with the current model, which has a number of important advantages. What we consider important is also a clear division of competences in the area of territorial planning itself - another important chapter. Here we have decided to strengthen self-government with a few concrete steps, while significantly speeding up, shortening the deadlines. For simple changes in territorial plans, we maintain shortened deadlines. If you're going to talk to the practicing mayors, the chieftains today, the answer is that this is an important thing when they need to make one partial change, for example, in order to build a school where, until then, there was only a farm and there was an industrial zone, so this is a change that will make a significant contribution to dealing with the key task of the community and the key problems of people. We do not want unnecessary bureaucracy, we want a functioning regime in this regard, a simple path. Another important and important thing is that, on the basis of debates with large cities, we are able to ensure that, on the basis of their demands, we are able to obtain faster procurement of complex territorial plans at the cost of their own stronger motivation in the form of established organisations, which have it in their own statute, and they are doing it very well. Of course, it would be possible, and there will still be room to look at the detail of each step, and I believe that no matter how the vote takes place, whether it is the basis for further discussions one or the other, we will have a difficult debate. I'm gonna take this entrance, a basic review of the changes to the building bill, and I'm gonna put an end to it. Thank you very much for your attention. I believe we'll be back to the debate. What we really think is important: to ensure the Czech public in a wide range from small builders to large developers easier, faster and transparent building procedures, which will not create new unnecessary authorities, but will cope with what is at our heart, so that the listed buildings, transport structures and the like can be discussed at a specialized building office, which will be well equipped for this and will be able to do it quickly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u5	Thank you. That was a priority right. If no one else claims any more preferential rights, I would probably move on to the normal part of the debate, because I do not believe that the House is now in such a number that we can vote in a procedural manner. So I would like to give the floor to Mrs Maříková and prepare Mr Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have a joint debate, I will speak to the two Houses' press. The Government's draft building bill, House press 1008, in its proposed wording, does not distinguish the amount of fines for natural persons, business individuals and legal persons in the event of an offence. However, it is very important which person it is. The amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, in Section 300, in violation of persons, mitigates the diction of the law in the sense that it takes into account the nature of the person to whom sanctions are imposed - that is, for a natural person to take account of his/her personal circumstances, in particular in terms of his/her overall financial situation, on the grounds that we do not consider it appropriate to impose such high sanctions on natural persons as legal persons with sufficient financial background. The upper limit of fines is increased to double in the draft law compared to the current situation. In many cases, a fine may thus be imposed on the natural person in full liquidation and put such a builder in an unsolvable situation. It is also desirable, given the educational treatment of penalties, that the builder feels the power of punishment adequately, which is diametrically different for a natural or legal person. It is desirable to determine the type of administrative penalty and to determine the amount of the administrative penalty to be imposed on both the natural person and the legal person, taking into account the specific activity of that person, in particular because the object of its activities can be very distant from the construction sector. According to Article 15 of Law No. 250/2016 Sb. the responsibility of the natural person for the offence is required to be culpable. It can therefore be assumed that the person does not have such practical experience in the complex issue of the construction process and this must be taken into account when imposing sanctions in such proceedings. I therefore ask you to support the amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, because a priori cannot be considered a sufficient degree of differentiation between perpetrators of administrative offences as legal persons and self-employed persons on the one hand and natural persons on the other hand by mere general application of Act No. 250/2016 Sb. To the House press 1009, for which we have a merged debate: a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law sets very high administrative fees. Once again, I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. The construction process is already very administratively demanding in itself. With these high fees, the share of administrative fees in the total cost of the state administration in the exercise of construction law cannot in any way be improved. The share of administrative fees and fines on total costs oscillates on average 46,3% in 2015, over 57,1% in 2016 and 42 percent in 2017. The draft law cannot count on a greater degree of coverage of the total costs, since builders could view this increase as another obstacle to the already demanding construction process. The amendment I propose with a group of Members is therefore proposing to reduce certain charges for the most common types of permanent housing or ordinary recreational housing. It is actually the support of ordinary citizens and their families in finding or adjusting their housing. The reduction of these charges can be seen as a reduction of barriers to the implementation of family housing and to facilitate the implementation of such buildings with the final result of an increase in the number of family housing buildings. I will then sign up for both amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u7	Thank you. And now I ask Mr Čižinský to prepare Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the construction law and the construction proceedings are simply naturally conflicting proceedings. Not everyone is thrilled that there's something to be built around him. It is therefore necessary to be very balanced, because the construction investor, the municipality, the state, the conservation of nature, the neighbours - these are all the interests that enter the construction process. In the end, equilibrium is always guaranteed by the courts - in the end, a process that is unbalanced will always be brought to justice. Finally, administrative courts in this case, finally the supreme authority is the Supreme Administrative Court, will ultimately assess what we will create here in the House and decide. This process, as it is going on, may not cause any enthusiasm for everyone, but must respect the rights of everyone involved. They must respect the constitutional rights guaranteed. They must guarantee procedural rights. It must guarantee the right to environmental protection. It must guarantee the right to the protection of cultural heritage. * [[17.10 hours]] Indeed, the process of adopting this law here is very dubious. It is a process that takes place in a way that such a complex law should never be adopted. There was a bill proposed here, there was a commentary procedure, in the commentary proceedings many departments said that they did not agree with this proposed law. The result was some compromise, and now here we have the original proposal again. It didn't come out here, but it was said on the committee that Mr. Kolovratník wanted to go the way of the revolution that he didn't want to go the way of evolution. That's very dangerous. Because here we come to the basic question, whether centralization or decentralisation works better, and we will get to it in a moment - I am convinced that the debate on vaccination will also be about whether centralization or decentralisation works better and whether trust in people or confidence in ourselves works centrally. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this time shows us exactly what does not work: centralization does not work and the trust of people in themselves who are promoting centralization does not work. What the construction law has to guarantee: the building law has to guarantee the possibility of building, a rapid process, respect for the right of neighbors, conservation of nature, conservation of monuments, it has to eliminate as much corruption as possible. Here we come again to the dispute of centralization and decentralization. The idea that centralization may reduce the corruption environment is, in my opinion, quite odd. Here it was possible to decide whether to go on the way to a larger office or whether to go on the way to greater powers of self-government. I think that decision was taken very badly. A decision has been taken - we will go through centralization and a large office. But if more self-confidence - and self-government function better - were to be followed, the corruption environment would also improve. They've got it in Germany, they've got it in Slovakia now. Since the current model is merged, that means the construction office is in the same office as the mayor, the mayor has no right to influence it. And if we take some hypothetical community where corruption actually works, this model means that the mayor is making excuses, and it affects the office. If the mayor had allowed these buildings, he would have seen them and couldn't make excuses for anyone. That is, if we wanted to speed up, improve, we should have gone the way of greater rights of self-government. Because what does some mayor of corruption say if he doesn't allow a construction that has all the necessary and is to be allowed? It's obvious. He can't afford that. And now we're going to give the agenda to an authority of our own. I am deeply convinced that the builders should be very worried right now, because certain trust in the process is very important with regard to such conflict proceedings as the building process, and that trust will now be greatly disrupted. The fragile balance that is actually tilted the self-government to try to be a mediator between the builder and those who did not like the construction plan. What happens if the proposed amendments pass here is that the Authority will be outside the system, and I am actually almost sure that the Authority will look with great distrust, as will citizens and builders will look with great distrust, at the decision-making of the central building office. Trust will be there and, in fact, the building proceedings will be much more frequent than they are today in court, the courts will be overwhelmed and, in fact, we won't shorten anything, we'll just prolong everything. That means we're going in the very wrong direction. And then we'll tell each other by statistics. I'm afraid we're gonna say it was a mistake that we extended it. We will certainly extend the construction proceedings to those builders who have to take credit, because the action will mean that they will not receive the loans, instead of walking in the way of greater confidence to self-government, which would really be a way to transparentize the process and speed up the process. By the way, it was said from the Minister's mouth that the ministries to which this law is to be applied agreed. Well, Madam Secretary, that's a pure lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u9	Thank you. Madam Secretary will still want to respond, so please, and then we would probably get to the individual votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u10	Yes, thank you. I'll be very brief. I would like to appreciate it, because it is really necessary here to legitimately admit that even the opposition appreciates a number of principles that are newly proposed in this construction law. What we disagree on and what is actually the subject of today's debate is precisely the institutional model of the building administration. But very often - and now it has basically been said a little bit by Mr Čižinský, through you, Mr President - is that we take some powers from the municipalities. That's not true at all. The municipalities today have no competence in the construction process, it is the transferred performance of the state administration. As far as the delegation is concerned, the State pays the municipalities roughly four billion a year for this. The construction authorities are actually doing this for pay and they must do it independently of the will of politicians. And that's the problem with why the court is judging systemic bias today. And quite frankly, a citizen doesn't care if a civil servant paid by the state or an official paid by the community is in charge of the construction process. His main goal is to get a building permit quickly, independently and predictablely. In addition, small and large builders confirm that the current arrangement simply does not work. It is an indisputable problem, and it is, of course, an instrument for the construction process, thanks to its very systemic bias, to be built up. As far as the concerns about objections to systemic bias are concerned, this also prevents municipalities from concluding cooperation agreements with investors, because the mayors can see it as well as the fact that independence is being wiped out there, and it is precisely the one who wants to build it that makes use of it. And only to those numbers, 13,000 officials. There won't be any new officials. There are 13 000 officials throughout the system today, only these officials will not be paid by the municipalities, but by the state. And our goal, of course, is for everyone to sit where they are. I am very glad that many mayors are reasonable and are already calling us and offering their premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u11	Thank you. Mr Čižinský has also volunteered from his post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u12	Just really, really, really short. On the contrary, municipalities subsidize the state because they subsidize the contribution to the state administration. No matter where we look, there's never 100 percent of the officials the state requires of the municipalities. I would like to say here that I will propose Amendment 7605, perhaps it is a little premature, but it concerns conservation care to make it more accessible to those whom it will decide. So I'm just calling it in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u13	Thank you, yes, all these proposals may need to be redesigned according to how the House decides which law takes as the basis for further discussion. [[The sound of the gong.]] I've just called my colleagues to the O.R. I see Mr. Výborný that he's still applying, so I'll give him my word. Then, if necessary, I would introduce how we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On the basis of a debate with the authors of this press, I will allow myself to modify my original proposal, namely to interrupt the merged debate on the points of the House press 1008 and 1009 in the second reading by 30 March 2021. I originally proposed 31st, so I'm going to change to 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u15	Yes, thank you, so that's a modified counterproposal. We should now deal with two groups of procedural proposals. One of them concerns this not quite usual procedure, but it has already happened here that we will decide that one of the proposed comprehensive amendments will be taken as a basis for further discussion. The second group then concerns proposals for interruptions. As regards the proposals for which a comprehensive amendment will be taken as the basis for further discussion, Mr Kolovratník's proposal or the proposal from the Economic Committee is proposed, and on this there is a comprehensive counter-proposal by Mr Kupka. I believe that this is enough, we do not need to identify them in detail, or we will first vote on taking as the basis for further consideration of Mr Kupka's counter-proposal. If this does not pass, we will vote on the Economic Committee's proposal as a basis for further discussion. If he doesn't pass, the basis for further discussion is automatically the Ministry's original proposal. Thank you. I have yet to hear from Mr Luzar here, but I will give you my word, certainly if you are joining the debate, even though I was expecting us to vote, but please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Minister, I am sorry, I did not know if this was a procedural proposal that would not allow for further speeches, if so... it was in the debate. I would also like to speak here on this proposal from the merged debate, because there is a bit of a time game going on here. I would like to stress that this did not come as a lightning bolt, the proposal when three comprehensive amendments were tabled here. I have already pointed out to the Economic Committee that we should focus on one of these proposals in the framework of the amendments, so that we can just get time, all of us, to prepare amendments only on a specific matter. So it's not like we're taking it easy right now and he didn't know he should be prepared for it. This information has been heard and most of the amendments that are being prepared will certainly be addressed to the correct press that will be passed through this House, and the Economic Committee has already adopted a specific position in its resolution. Thus, the assumption that has been made here by colleagues of the Výborný, by your means, that colleagues could not prepare for this is not entirely true, because the information has been heard and the Committee on Economic Affairs has adopted the resolution as a guarantee committee. That is, the proposal to make a comprehensive amendment, workingly called a proposal from the Economic Committee, and not a colleague of Kolovratník, as a means of change. It's just to illustrate the situation that it's not lightning out of the blue. The second thing that has been said here, and in this discussion, the red thread has been a little guilty here, I would like to point out that we have already started this discussion at first reading and discussed how far we want to divide the state administration from the self-government. I was constantly pointing out that the other things are rather technological details of how it will be implemented, but the basic decision will always be on it, and that will break bread, if we want to separate state administration from self-government, in this particular case really not only de iure as it is in the law, but really de facto as many of us would have imagined, and therefore I am also signed under the proposal that was passed by the economic committee, because I really think that if something historically was wrong, it was the abolition of the district authorities and actually transferring the state administration here to the municipalities. I will not mention all the problems associated with the construction process, but also other performances of the state administration, which are in the municipalities and where there is often misunderstood the municipalities, what is the difference between government and self-government, and the influence - let the honourable colleagues of the mayors not be angry with me - is really happening. I don't think we need to remind ourselves that we have dozens of these things in our experience, and so do citizens. What I would like to point out on this issue is that there are actually three amendments. The first honored colleague of Kupka, who represents a group, says that the state administration could remain with the municipalities in this understanding and let us only solve certain details. I understand that, I understand that, and I am prepared with some amendments that make sense of the rata - if they do not relate to the fundamental meaning that they declare, that is to say, the separation of government from self-government - and to support, because, of course, I also see certain needs, whether it concerns territorial planning, the influence of self-government on the functioning of municipalities and other matters. Another group or another amendment, named after a colleague, Fial, as Chairman of the Economic Committee, who has taken it up and presented it in the context of this law, is, say, even more shifted to the practical implementation of the implementation of the construction interests when I speak euphemistically about the interests of construction. I'd warn a little bit here, because, of course, we're moving quite a thin ice of interest. [[to]] On one side of the interests, such as the protection of land, the interests of building protection and the guarding of building proceedings, so as not to stop and violate the regulations and interests of self-government and citizens - and on the other hand, the interest of developers, the interest of those who want to build, and ideally in green meadows and ideally in the best conditions that we have on the other side. That is why I am also signed under a comprehensive amendment, which was represented by the rapporteur, Mr Kolovratník, here, and I would really appeal and warn against trying to accommodate everyone. I just can't. While I understand, by your means, my colleague, Kolovratník, he has a wide heart and he likes to hear a lot of comments, and when we were backstage talking about it, that there really are a lot of interests - but I would like to say that if we really want the building bill to pass, we should look for some clear and understandable consensus and not try to accommodate everyone at all costs. The signature is, let's say, under this proposal, where I am signed, my signature is... it's not even categorical, it's just a signature for trying to make a difference, and I really don't want us here to bury the building bill itself with these efforts. So far, the discussions that have been going on here, I'm afraid they're leading to this, and they're going to try to use all the ways to make sure that in the end either something hasn't changed at all, or on the contrary, the ad absurdum has changed somewhere else, where I don't want to. That's why I'm warning you that this signature is conditional here by sticking to some boundaries, pre-arranged, and by honoring everyone involved in this, so that they don't be defeated and won. Here I offer a real opportunity, and it has also been heard at the Economic Committee in the debate, to go back and discuss it, but not categorically that either this or nothing. Or, on the contrary, it will be all there, or we will never be able to fulfill it. If the government's objective - and now I have asked the Minister what the position of government is, because we have a government proposal that is in place in the system so far - to complete the construction law during this parliamentary term and really to get it into the approval phase during this parliamentary term, then we should all approach it with some respect (?). And I already feel the great efforts of the various amendments to break into it. And if there is any consensus that comes from the signatures that are under this proposal, then we should approach this very carefully and consider very much which proposals we will then support and which are not. And here I am saying that I will follow very closely and closely what is being prepared as amendments, because I would very much not like it in that skeleton, which, at the moment, should be borne by the decision of the Economic Committee, so that there are not various proposals that are actually going to move it somewhere else, other than what I dreamed in the initial idea of what the construction law might look like. This is my point here, and I would also like to take it from this point of view that the amendments that are coming and coming here should really be held in the context of the amendments in the context of the points that they are. There are three suggestions, so let's try to stick to what we're trying to give examples of how the construction administration could work. And now I don't rule out the fact that, in the end, the classic construction law will remain as it is, and that no proposal at all will pass. But I would... I would probably consider that the biggest mistake of this House. [[17.30 hours]] So I'd like us not to approach it this way and try to be obsessed, try not to look for ways to extend it, so that we can get... I think we're done with this debate at first reading. And now we should get back to the examples of maybe good practice and what's ahead. That's my appeal and my challenge. Of course, I see what the petitioner said. I have an amendment prepared that can help in some matters within the firefighters, but these are specific things that will be discussed, we will definitely discuss them on the Economic Committee. And I will myself wonder what other amendments will come, but here I really warn that I will follow them very closely and I will try to keep the result in line with the assignment that I signed up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u17	Thank you, and Mr Výborný will respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u18	Thank you. Through you, Mr Vice-President, to Mr Luzar. Please, the Sovereign is the House. I have great respect for the committees and the Economic Committee, but, indeed, if the Economic Committee has voted on something, that does not necessarily mean that the House must act on it. At this point, we will decide and beautifully can be the comprehensive amendment that will be approved by this House, the comprehensive amendment by my colleague Kupka. Or we can also agree to continue to act in the version of the government proposal. So please assume that the Economic Committee has made a decision and that everyone could have been prepared for it is indeed contrary to the Rules of Procedure and is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u19	Thank you. At this point, they're all exhausted applications, so I'm going to call my colleagues back to the ballroom and we're going to vote in any case. The debate is not yet over, we are far from that, but we will now vote in a procedural vote. So first, if everyone's present and everyone's logged in the way they want to be. I can still see my colleagues coming, so I'll wait. First, we will vote on which proposal we will consider as the basis for further discussion. First, we will vote on this to be the proposal of Mr Kupka and others, after it is the proposal of the Economic Committee, or Mr Kolovratník and others, respectively. When neither of these things passes in this order, we continue with the Ministry of the Interior's proposal. I think this is clear. I think they're present and logged in by all who want to be logged in. So we will now vote on taking Mr Kupka's comprehensive amendment as the basis for further discussion. Initiating vote, I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 70, 101 Members and Members are registered for 31, against 47. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now vote on taking the proposal of the Economic Committee or Mr Kolovratník as the basis for further discussion. Initiating vote, I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 71, 99 Members and Members are registered, for 59, against 31. I note that the proposal has been adopted and, therefore, as a basis for further discussion, we will continue with the proposal of the Economic Committee. Now there has been another procedural proposal, namely that, after today's debate has been exhausted, we should stop discussing this second reading before the end of this general debate. The first was the counter-proposal until 30 March of this year. If this proposal fails, the original proposal is here by 20 March of this year. However, I believe there is a consensus on the first possibility. So it's clear to everyone what we're going to vote on? On the suspension of this item until 30. 3. Initiating vote, I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 72, 99 Members and Members are registered, for 94, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has therefore been approved. As I said, the debate is not yet over at the moment. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If not, I'll cut the point. No one seems to report, so I am interrupting this item before the end of the debate. Minister Zaorálek reporting? With a point of fact? [[Minister Zaoralek will not perform.]] So these two points are cut off, and I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-007-999.u20	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We have another point here.
