ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 90th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 48 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on March 2nd. Before we proceed to the designation of the verifiers, I would like to wish you happy birthday to František Petrtýl, who has today's birthday, March 9th. [[Let's hear it.]] As far as the meeting verifiers are concerned, I propose that we designate Mr František Kopřiva and Mr Jiří Mihola at this 90th meeting. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers? I don't see anybody, so I'll call in my coworkers from the lobby. I will ask everyone present to take their seats, to vote. In the meantime, I can say that, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs and the leadership of the House of Members who are not present or excused in writing, they shall be deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs. And we're already in a position to settle. I therefore initiate the vote on the persons of the verifiers. Who's up for it? Who's against it? Voting number one, 79 Members signed in for 78, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Františka of Kopřiva for the 90th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and Members of Jiří Mihola. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. We will now proceed to the 90th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall decide only on the agenda set out in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. I don't see any priority rights, so I'm gonna press the gong one more time, but we all know what we're voting on - we're approving the 90th meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number two, there are 91 Members registered, for 89, no one against. The motion was accepted. The agenda has been approved. There. And so now we're going to proceed to one item on the agenda of this meeting, which is the point.
