ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 84th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In the beginning, as usual, I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to sign in, and thus present yourself, or tell me who will vote with the replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 42 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 11 February of this year. To begin with, it is February 19th and it is Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal's birthday, so happy birthday, Vojta. [[Let's hear it.]] Now we're going to set up the verifiers for this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Vít Rakušan and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting? I don't see anybody checking in. [[Gongja, there are only 61 Members in the room.]] I have to wait a little longer. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number one, 80 Members registered, 78 against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Vít Rakušan and Mr Tomáš Vymazal, as verifiers of the 84th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. For the record, all Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. Today we are meeting again in a reduced format. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček until 10.30 - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons. We would now proceed to the 84th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the House shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the request. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I don't see anyone performing with priority rights at this stage. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby again. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposed agenda for this meeting? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 83 Members registered, for 63, against 14. The motion was accepted. Thank you. The agenda has been approved. Now we're going to go to one point on the show, and that's
