ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Living Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 799/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to mention the proposal for a very important law amending the energy law. The law isn't exactly simple. If I were to sum it up to three points in a very simple way, the first would undoubtedly be and would be about the Energy Regulatory Authority, the second natural gas, and the third what we call the Energetic bastards. Let me briefly imagine these areas. The first area is, through this proposed standard, to bring Czech legislation into line with EU legislation, following formal warnings and the reasoned opinion of the European Commission, which calls into question the Czech Republic's incorrect transposition of the 2009 directives on common rules for the internal market in electricity and common rules for the internal market in gas. This proposal addresses the Commission's complaints, namely in the area of independence of the Energy Regulatory Authority, in particular as regards the so-called ten-year plans of transmission and transmission system operators, as well as the conditions for the removal of an ERU member and the issue of the re-appointed board member. [[15.20 hours]] This amendment addresses complaints about the protection of commercial sensitive information or, for example, the composition of an independent observer's supervisory authority, are prepared or to settle an out-of-court dispute, the right of the USO to file a complaint directly to the Energy Regulatory Authority for review, the decision on methodologies, rates and so on. [[Nesroz.]] The second objective of this amendment is to adapt our legal order to a directly effective regulation of 2017 on measures to ensure security of gas supply. In particular, Article 13 of this Regulation concerns solidarity in crisis situations, since the other parts of that Regulation have already been adapted to national legislation since the same regulation, which has been replaced by that Regulation, has been in force. The amendment then brings legislation on the protection of energy consumers and responds to unfair practices in this area. That's the third area, maybe one of the most watched. It is important to say that the amendment introduces a completely new type of business, the so-called energy intermediary activity, on the basis of the authorisation that the Energy Regulatory Authority will be doing if the conditions laid down are met, the most important being integrity and reliability, each intermediary being kept in a register of intermediaries that the ERÚ will publish on its website. The amendment then regulates offences, including relevant sanctions, which are committed either by a natural or legal person in the event of the provision of this intermediary activity in the energy sector, unless he has a valid authorisation. Unfortunately, we can see that this adjustment of the terms of the intermediary activity is necessary now that we have noticed the fraud of some intermediaries, who are also using the emergency situation. The amendment clearly strengthens consumer protection in the energy market. The consumer will be able, in the event of a contract being concluded in a so-called distance or off-site manner, which was a very common problem, without penalty to terminate the contract obligation within the 15th day following the start of the electricity supply or gas supply. The same right will also be enjoyed by the consumer when the contract is concluded through an intermediary, and the consumer will also have easier opportunity to terminate the fixed term contract for which an automatic extension of the commitment has otherwise been agreed. A contract for the supply of electricity or gas for a fixed period with a delivery period exceeding 36 months with the expiry of that period shall be considered as an indefinite contract. Finally, the amendment regulates the time constraints of complicated full powers that have been fatally abused. Older people have had a problem with this, I mean older people as consumers, which at this point consumers may be allowed to act on behalf of a trader or broker. The powers of attorney are now limited in time, and this - and this is important to say - to a maximum of six months from their granting. Thus, the law responds to frequent unfair practices, where these rightful persons, granted in good faith by even older people, abused these powers, used them more than once, without the customer's knowledge and used them even a few years after this authorisation was given, when the customer did not even count using the authorization, nor did he know that he had provided them. The preparation of this amendment was very intensively and closely consulted with all the key public administration bodies concerned, in particular the Energy Regulatory Authority, the professional associations and associations. The proposal went through the inter-ministerial process and the Government discussed the bill and approved it in March 2020. Finally, I would like to stress that this amendment is a priority of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, particularly in view of the need to address the formal warnings of the European Commission, but at the same time, as I have already said, to avoid unfair practices in energy. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support this law both in today's negotiations and in the framework of the following legislative process in this House's committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u3	Thank you. Let me just ask you, Mr. Chairman Jurečka, do you report for a priority debate? Okay. In that case, the rapporteur, Mr Patrik Nacher, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u4	So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, good afternoon. This is how we have finally reached this important standard, in particular I will focus on the part of the so-called energy mess. I'm going to start off a little untraditional for those who aren't deep enough to be able to empathize, because we often talk about the useless ten thousand, about human fates, about sad stories. I would like to quote the letter that has come to me, it really exists, written on a typewriter, which is a rarity today, and it fits beautifully - I think it replaces perhaps an hour-long debate on this subject. "The circumstances that have come to me have driven me to write this letter. I have to tell you the truth, look under the skin of various energy scumbags. I'm 1942, I don't know how mysteriously I got into the spiral of several energy companies. I never signed anything, and I didn't tell anyone anything on the phone. I've been given information that workers to get their reward for" - I quote - "fucking pensioners will learn all people online under the year of birth 1950. Enough seniors have property or widows or widowers. I received several letters to pay CZK 5,000 for non-compliance with the terms of the contract. In the spring I am a company" - I will not quote it here now, then we will deal with it on committee and subcommittee - "she sent 9,000 crowns. They threatened to execute me. I've never had a loan in my life, and I pay everything on time. I am now in the pliers of comparative societies and other companies that are asking for another CZK 10,000. I don't know what to do. I don't dare send the money I have for my funeral. I know there's a lot of cases, but few people are gonna smash it because seniors are afraid they've fallen for it, and they're hiding this from their own kids. That is why I would intercede for these improprieties to be dealt with by law. Thank you for reading this letter." Well, I think that's a beautiful example of what's going on in the market today, unfortunately. The situation at this point is even worse because the onset of coronavirus is those people at home, social contact is smaller and smaller, and emotions are bigger and bigger. The effort to save resources is, of course, more acute, and at that moment, when someone calls you, or promises to save for energy, you'll be more willing to open the door and possibly your soul, so to speak. There are four basic practices of these energy scumbags. First - and I'll discuss it in detail on the committee and at second reading, so I'll take it very quickly - fake performances when they're pretending to be someone else. It's often hard to reveal. It is most common for the Czech Trade Inspection or for the Energy Regulatory Office. Then, for example, it is false information that your supplier no longer operates on the market or that you have two contracts, one collids and so on. Then there's a segment, so to speak, of amorality, because energy scumbags turn especially to those who can be harder to defend. It's like seniors. And then it's a misappropriation of legal loopholes. Here I would like to give an example of such an auction, where we often come across the case that the consumer does not know where to turn, whether it belongs to the CHI or the ERO, whether it falls under the Energy Regulatory Authority, where these things naturally fall, or is it an auction - it was, for example, the offers of the various light bulbs per crown, and this is already under the Czech Trade Inspection. According to the Energy Regulatory Authority statistics, the number of different administrations last year was 13 192, which is a year-on-year decrease of 7,5 percent, but that was due to coronavirus, so I looked at different numbers. And, as we know in general, crime has fallen by 16 percent year on year and execution by 18 percent. There's only a decrease of 7.5 percent. [[15.30 hours]] In other words, it is obvious - evident - that this decline does not copy the declines in other segments in relation to the consumer. That means the Energosfuckers are very active. Of the total incentives and submissions, more than half of the intermediaries concerned by this amendment, as the Minister has already said. The supplier's finding 27 %, the intermediary directly 19 %, the supplier's change of 11 %, is 57 percent of all submissions concern intermediaries. By the way, those geeks I read that letter to the lady at the beginning, they'd deserve a real slob, yeah, while we're at it. It reminded me of the situation that went on here last week. As far as the standard itself is concerned, I will remind you that the energy law has been amended 24 times. Of this since the revolution - four of which were major amendments to the transposition of the first, second and third energy package. And it is this amendment that you have before you that concerns - unlike the Minister, I have divided it into two areas, not three. One is a discrepancy with the transposition of the third energy package, where we were read - we have eight complaints. I will not devote myself to them more extensively at the moment, because the Minister has described them. The other thing is to fight the Energetic. I would sum it up there to define contracts for 36 months, restrictions on the full power of 12 months, the possibility to terminate at any time, the definition of an intermediary - that is, how to behave, what to do, what to inform those customers about - and the mandatory register of these intermediaries at the Energy Regulatory Authority. This standard was here, I believe, since June, July, August last year, so I am already in cooperation with the Ministry, with the Energy Regulatory Authority, with people who are concerned with consumer protection, and with the industry itself has prepared a comprehensive amendment that makes some things even more difficult. As an example, I give a transitional period, which is currently dealing with those powers not only in the future, but essentially indirectly and retrospectively. That means whoever's got the power of attorney in the drawer right now, the customer, and he's scared, so after the effectiveness of this novel, he's gonna be paying for it for the next 12 months, too. That's an example of the things where we're still making it clear. The aim is therefore greater consumer protection, the end of the operation of these energy-smugglers. Given that this has been a good time - and if you look into the system, there are also a few other amendments - I would like to request a reduction of 30 days to 30 days, which we will then vote on. I cut it short as much as I could. I believe that we can go into some more detail in those other readings, but on this point, I expect the consensus of the entire Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u5	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Let's keep going. The rapporteur will, of course, read the 30-day deadline for discussion in the debate so that we can vote on this. And I am opening the debate when President Marian Jurečka is the first to sign up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, Madam Secretary, colleagues. I will try to be very brief, because the essential things here have been said as the promoter, Minister Havlíček and rapporteur, colleague of Mr Patrik Nacher. I am very pleased that finally, practically after a year, this House press has managed to get into the discussion at first reading, because there is a very important part that concerns improving consumer rights protection and addressing the whole area of the energy industry, which has been repeatedly discussed here in the House's past, even at the level of expert seminars, when there were lectures that came from the Energy Regulatory Authority, from the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, from SOCR and from other organizations with which this topic is linked, which pointed out that this chapter of misleading conduct is not completely resolved. There are certain white spots on the map among the supervisory authorities. That's why the list of things that fell here. This means a register of providers of these intermediate services, the issue of clear obligations, the limitation of the duration of the contract, consumer information when increasing prices and so on. All of this is a set of measures that will clearly lead to this environment being cleaned up so that this jungle, which has been hard hitting tens of thousands of people in recent years to end. So thank you for that. Then there's the second part. This is also devoted to energy areas, such as the use of accumulations. It is an area defined in the amendment that has been discussed here in recent months and has been completed with the participation of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. For that, I want to thank the Minister and his people for their involvement. This is actually about creating a legislative framework for energy accumulation for battery systems. Unfortunately, our legislation does not yet know these terms, although west of us in many states is developing this trend, because technologically there are already high-capacity battery systems that serve for better stability of the network, energy grid, for greater stability and use of the network as well as the potential of the network in connection with the development of renewable resources. And these are all the new trends of the 21st century, and it would be good for us to introduce them into our legislation as well. That not only pilot projects, which are a few, but that, in general, this sector of services, which can contribute to greater efficiency, stability, but also, for example, to reduce the cost of distribution, also in the Czech Republic. Among other things, because we have several companies that are able to supply battery systems abroad - in Ireland, Germany, the United Kingdom - and this appears to be a very interesting trend in modern technology, which can also be the potential for growth in the Czech economy, in the Czech national economy. So this, too, will be the subject of amendments that we would like to discuss on the Economic Committee. I have tried to support this amendment virtually across the political spectrum. So I thank my colleagues and colleagues. I believe we will be able to work this out in the second and third readings. So thank you again and I wish you well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u7	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. We will continue the debate. I do not have a written application, but I therefore note the rapporteur's application, who will propose that the deadline be reduced in the debate. Mr rapporteur, in the debate, it is necessary to propose a possible shortening of the time limit that you have announced in your reporting report. [[The rapporteur wonders why, if he has already said so.]] But it has to be said in the debate. Mr rapporteur, you have announced in your report that you will propose a reduction in the deadline for discussing second reading from 60 to 30 days. But this must be presented in the debate, not in the news report. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u8	Yes, I was talking to a colleague there, so I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention to this. Of course, what I said in my intelligence report, I'm loading now. That means I'm going to ask you to cut your aid by 30 days to 30 days, because it's been a long time here, and all those who wanted to get acquainted with it have come to know it. There are amendments. I think we talked about it from the left, from the right. So just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-004-043.u9	Yes, or positively, the proposal has fallen, we will vote on it. Who's next in the debate on the amendment to the Energy Act? If no one, I am ending the general debate. We don't have any motion to return or refuse, but we're asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[No.]] It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore decide in the vote number 156. I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna sing. [[15.40 hours]] And in the 156 vote, we will decide that the Committee on Economic Affairs will be the guarantee committee for this press. I'm asking who's in favour - I've taken a vote. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 156. From the present 85 to 85, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I don't see anyone, so there's nothing to vote on. We have a proposal from the debate to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days. That's what we're gonna decide in the vote number 157, which I started, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 157: 84 for 82 against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you to Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point 43. According to the approved agenda, we will continue with the item
