ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u1	24. Government proposal for a law on lobbying / House printing 565/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. [[Member Kubíček reporting.]] So please, Vice-President of the Yes Roman Kubíček Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna have to ask for a 10-minute break on the name of club YES. It is only for the Minister to be able to pass this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u3	Okay. Before I call a break, one apology. Mrs Eva Matyášová apologises between 13:00 and 23.45 for work reasons. And I'm declaring a ten-minute break. Madam Secretary is on his way, so I'll see you at 12.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u4	We mít 12.45. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Jana Levová apologizes for medical reasons 18. 6. Mr Petr Sadovský apologises between 12:30 and 19:00 for work reasons. Mr Kamal Farhan apologizes today from 12.35 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u5	I wish everyone a good noon and I remind you that we will therefore deal with the Act on lobbying and its accompanying law. I have already introduced him here, and I must stress that this is an important anti-corruption proposal, which has basically been supported and recommended by GRECO and is presented in accordance with the relevant legislative and anti-corruption plans. As I mentioned in his first reading, I believe that we may agree that lobbying is appropriate, that in advanced democratic societies it is considered legitimate and necessary activity, but it must be given rules, it must be exercised transparently and under public control. Despite this, the regulation of lobby activity is missing here in the Czech Republic. The proposals I am talking about are the fourth attempt and this unsatisfactory situation needs to be corrected. It is not clear where lobbying ends and where corruption begins, it is necessary to determine everything. A comprehensive amendment has been drafted on both proposals, supported by the Constitutional Legal Committee and represents a slight compromise between the demands of all actors. Its aim is to bring a balanced solution in terms of the public interest pursued, on the one hand, to the extent and importance of the obligations imposed on lobbyists and lobbied on the other. The Ministry of Justice supports this comprehensive amendment. I also take a favourable or neutral position on other amendments recommended by the Guarantee Committee, and this is what Mr Chvojka here represents. I therefore express my support to both of you and I ask you to be in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u6	We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The press was also ordered by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee was delivered as House prints from 565/1 to 565/4. The resolution of the Permanent Commission was not delivered. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. Yes, it is. The Constitutional Legal Committee met on 25 May on this bill, which I also consider to be very important, with the adoption of a number of amendments to it, which we have in resolution 565/4. It is a set of basically six or seven pages and it is a change that to some extent undermines the original philosophy of the law on lobbying as it came as the original press of 565 with the fact that, for example, to some extent, the definition of what lobbying is changes at all - in Section 2 para. 1, in Section 3, who is a lobbyist, in Section 4, who is lobbied, and so on and so on, that I have understood as rapporteur on the basis of discussions with certain political parties this week that it would be ideal - and some colleagues who have prepared amendments are counting on this - that this resolution, as I said, has a law to some extent been broken, should be taken - or this resolution should be taken - as a basis for submitting possible further amendments. This is what I understood at the meeting with the President of the House of Vondráček, who has as a topic also the basis of negotiations with colleagues from the Pirate Party. So then, in the course or now, I am actually saying that we must first approve the resolution in question of the constitutional-legal committee as a whole as a basis for submitting further amendments, and then we must say to ourselves when we will be able to give further possible amendments to this comprehensive amendment in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u8	Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes between 9 and 14 o'clock today, 18. 6. Mr Jaroslav Kytýr apologizes between 12:43 and 3:00 p.m. and until the end of the day for working reasons. I now request a representative of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the Permanent Commission. I don't see anybody here, so I'm opening up a general debate to which the MP has applied... [[To the President he came with Vice-President Pikal with a remark, the President silenced himself, and he leafed in his materials.]] Wait a minute. [[12.50 hours]] So I am now opening up a general debate in which Mr František Navrkal came forward. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Jan Jakob will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u9	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I am glad that it finally got to the second reading of this important anti-corruption legislation. In fact, I am also glad that a comprehensive amendment, which forms a better basis for further discussion, has been adopted for further amendments. What I regret, however, is that on the last constitutionally-legal committee where we discussed this press, it is that, in fact, my proposals were not included in the constitutionally-legal committee's amendment, although they had the support of the appellant, the Minister. I don't completely understand. I think it's a little schizophrenic, that it's actually the representatives of the SPD, the KSČM and so half of the ANO representatives in the constitutional law committee have blocked it, so I'm going to have to read it here as my own proposals. All my proposals are trying to strengthen the law, and the ones that the Ministry specifically recommended are actually technical. It is only to make it easier to access the register and to publish open data, but to do so in detail in the detailed debate. That'll be all for me for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u10	Mr Jan Jakob will now appear. Please, you have the floor. So far, this is the last application for a general debate. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u11	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the amendment originally tabled by Mr Feri. The amendment has two options. It concerns lobbied persons, i.e. the definition of who is lobbied. In that variant 1, he returns to the Government's bill of status as President of the Republic as one of the mandatory entities. The exemption of this provision took place at the meeting of the Government on 30 July 2019, without any convincing explanation and argument. When approving the draft law in the form in which the Government was referred to the House, there would be illogical asymmetry among the various bodies of the legislative process, their influence on it and their responsibilities. To compare, we will mention that there are Members' assistants, whose influence on the final standard against the President is at a completely different level. Finally, the Government's Legislative Council expressed itself in favour of the President's inclusion in the list of mandatory bodies in the proceedings of a substantive intention. The second option extends the circle to the president's advisor, as well as the members of the government's advisors are included. So I am applying to this amendment and I am going to sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u12	Now, we'd like to step up -- just a momentíček, you'll get the floor right away. [[To Mrs. Blacksmith's.]] However, we will proceed to the vote on the rapporteur's proposal that a comprehensive amendment to the constitutional-legal committee be taken as the basis for further discussion. Of course, you'll get your word right away. [[Once again, to Mrs. Kovářová.]] So here was this proposal, so we need to vote on it now. [[Gong.]] I shall therefore call the Members to the Chamber. You'll get your word right away, you'll get your word right after that. Checkout request. Log in again with your voting cards. [[13.00 hours]] We will vote on the rapporteur's proposal, which is the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so that a comprehensive amendment, which has been agreed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, is taken as the basis for further negotiations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 486, 94 Members registered, for 93, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mrs Věra Kovářová is now reporting for the speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u13	Allow me to present to you an amendment similar to what Mr Jakob here said. It also has two variants. The reason for the submission is that the legislature did not include the lobbying advisor of the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic himself in the draft law submitted. It should be noted that both the President's advisor and the President often meet with those who meet the conditions of lobbyists during informal work meetings, and so do they. Nor does it dispute that it is the advisers that have a significant influence on the representatives of the executive power and, on the other hand, they themselves can be influenced by third parties. It is therefore necessary to ensure transparency at these levels. Furthermore, the petitioner, i.e. I, as a Member, do not see such a diametric difference between an advisor to a member of the Government and an advisor to the President of the Republic to be removed from the scope of this law. It is he who participates in the working meetings and foreign trips of the President of the Republic, even separately, and is discussing foreign investment in the Czech Republic. Nor can it be forgotten the development of a legislative process where the aforementioned lobbied persons, advisors to the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic have already appeared in the bill or the professional public has proposed and recommended their inclusion under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u14	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and we will continue our negotiations. If no one else checks in, then... I see two applications. I was the first to see Mr Benda, but the rapporteur has priority rights if he wants to apply it. Please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u15	I'm sorry. I volunteered, I didn't see a colleague named Marek Benda reporting, I'm sorry if I skipped or beat him to it. I only have one question right now. I got a little mixed up in this as a reporter. We have agreed that the resolution of the constitutional-legal committee of 25 May is the basis for a kind of resale, because, as I said, there are a lot of changes that change the original law to some extent. And I ask, therefore, whether - as was the case with the press, where I was also rapporteur for at least part of the legislative process, that is, for example, for the press, 454, a change in the order of execution, when we also approved amendments from the constitutionally-legal committee, such as those that are the basis for further discussion - whether we may also need a break here to write the other amendments that will be tabled for this resolution or not. For example, I am merely calling for Mrs Valachová to count on this pause to be, she has prepared amendments which should already be written as proposals that are grafted to this 565/4 but she is not here, for example. So I would like to verify that in some way, even in a discussion or perhaps in a vote, as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u16	Thank you. Of course, standard procedural procedures, interruptions and so on can be proposed at the moment. Mr Benda applied, then Mr Navrkal. We are in a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u17	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I find this kind of unbelievable that there is a draft law here in the semi-conscious, which has a fundamental effect on the functioning of this House for the next parliamentary term, and no one, no one, is paying attention to it, because we have managed to beautifully approve weapons and beautifully approve a moving mandate, we have applauded it, and now here we have a proposal that first came from the government, and it is an accurate example of how legislation is not meant to be made. Several lobbyist groups such as Renovation of the State, Resurrection and others will be created, which will begin to write how Parliament needs to be fundamentally regulated. Then they sit down with ministerial servants and agree that the only criminals in this country are legislators and elected legislators, or even ministers and their deputy ministers. Those are the only ones who are supposed to be guarded. There is only lobbying, because everything else is perfectly fine and all public contracts are divided in peace and quiet, all subsidies are distributed in peace and quiet, everything else is without problems. Then the Minister will bring us here and we will have other rounds of negotiations under the auspices of the President of the House with these organizations, no unelected organizations that just say: So we will retreat in one or another so that we do not start screaming at you that you want to protect yourself. And then there's a meeting in the House in this atmosphere. Seems a little unreal to me. I know we have the impression that the term of office is over and that what's going to happen in the next term is part of the people here that doesn't matter. But I really don't care. I believe that what came from the constitutionally-legal committee is a much better option than it came from the government. I believe that we have indeed succeeded there - even thanks to Mr Vondráček's proposal, as well as the other proposals that I have made - to achieve at least that the next legislature will not burden it above all limits and create room for individual lobby groups to liquidate them, which was so written that I have one report lobbied and one report from the lobbyist, and if they do not coincide, then who do you think will get it? The lobbyist? No, no doubt the lobbyist, because he's a public official. We have come quite far in the way of getting closer to the European Parliament. I am just not quite sure if this approach to the European Parliament, which, say, the extent of the information to be communicated, and also the person who is obliged to inform, that is, a lobbyist, not lobbied, is approaching what is in the EP. I'm not quite sure if in the accompanying law - but I'm saying it now, because I think the laws are intensely related - if we're even giving raisins to those lobbyists, let's say, something that we offer them as a counter-value of having to register must be subject to a rather complex oversight of the Authority in the supervision of political parties. It just seems very unhappy to me this way of discussing it, but of course, the right of the majority to continue this way. [[is]] If we do not have a lobbying law in this parliamentary term, nothing will happen because it does not regulate the real problems in the state and only tries to regulate those that are already absolutely the most visible of all possible perspectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u18	Thank you. Mr. Congressman Navrkal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u19	Thank you for the floor. I am therefore glad that, through Mr President, Marek Benda has acknowledged that at least the law is not so bad when he has been there as part of the constitutionally-legal committee's amendment to many of his proposals that weaken the regime. Otherwise, I would probably comment on the fact that he's presenting this... or I'm going to apply here to an amendment that just might give some extra benefit to registered lobbyists, specifically, so that they can access eKLEP, government systems, so that they have access to how we have access to various documents that are being discussed in the government. [[13.10 hours]] Otherwise, I mainly applied to comment here on the rapporteur's procedural proposal. I think that if we were to interrupt this point now and wait for some other Members and Members to make some amendments, we would really be in danger of not accepting it within this parliamentary term. I understand that some would appreciate this, but I think it is anti-corruption legislation that we should approve. I myself may not be entirely satisfied with the very course of the constitutional-legal committee. I would have thought of a lot of improvements myself beyond what I'm going to report to here, if we don't interrupt. So I would really appeal to you not to vote to interrupt so that we can finish the second reading today and then do the third reading as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u20	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting, however, before I give him my word, I will introduce the House to the apologies that have run out in the meantime. Mr Jiří Kohoutek apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day for health reasons and Vice-President Filip from 13.00 to the end of the day. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor. We are still in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u21	Thank you. I will respond to my colleague Navrkal through you, Mr Vice-President. Well, it's a little contrary to what I had on my agenda this week, for example, with your President Michálek. For example, my colleague Valachová is not here, she has prepared amendments that she cannot read today because she thought that what we agreed with your President or President Vondráček will apply, for example, that we simply need to take the amendments of the constitutional-legal committee as the basis for discussing the resolution, with the fact that the amendments will be added to them. That's what I'm planning to do. So I have no choice but to hold an academic debate here, to propose an interruption to the first week of July, with the fact that, in my opinion, we are still in pursuit of the second reading of the first week, so the next day may be a constitutional legal committee as a committee of guarantee, to discuss amendments and still be there for some time. We have half June, not half September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-006-024.u22	Thank you. There was a motion to interrupt this item until the next meeting, there is a request for withdrawal. I'll check you all out. Mr Navrkal has applied, he has the opportunity to make a counterclaim, but he is not interested, so I will register it as an application for a possible debate if he continues. I've called you all together. Please sign up with your cards. When the quorum is fulfilled, we will be able to vote on the procedural proposal to suspend this item until the next proper meeting. May I put it this way, rapporteur? rapporteur Chvojka, can I formulate this as a proposal to interrupt the next proper meeting? Yes. I think we have a sufficient number of Members. I've already checked you all out and you're logged in. Initiating procedural vote 487. I said, who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against it? I note that in the vote number 487 88 Members were enrolled, for 65, 5 against, which means that we have interrupted this point in the middle of a general debate. We're not going back to him at this meeting. I have no choice but to open another point number
