ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-005-044.u1	44. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 992/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. I will ask him to take his place at the rapporteur's table and ask the rapporteur, Mrs President of the Health Committee, Věra Adámková, who has already done so. Thank you. I think we'll just wait a little while so we can... Minister, I think the noise level here is consistent with the fact that you can give the opening word, so please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-005-044.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance and other related laws. This proposal is one of the most extensive amendments to this law in recent years and aims to contribute, in particular, to improving the functioning of the public health insurance system in several areas. The most significant changes include, in particular, a new review of the conditions for reimbursement of health services, which will ensure a more objective and transparent assessment of their particular situation and health care rights. Another significant change that benefits patients in terms of increasing the availability of medical devices is the updating of payment groups of medical devices prescribed for vouchers and updating the payment regulation of orthodontic performances and dental and orthodontic products. These changes will, above all, enable account to be taken of the progress that has been made in medicine over the past few years. Patients will also benefit from the proposed simplification of the entry of medicinal contributions and foods for special medical purposes into the public health insurance scheme, specifically in the field of highly innovative medicinal products and orphan medicinal products. Here I would also like to mention the strong support of many patient organizations as well as the Hospital Board of the Ministry of Health. The proposal also includes adjustments to other areas of public health insurance, which are based on application practice. These areas include, for example, an extension of the age limit for the payment of artificial insemination from 39 to 40 years or an extension of the range of people who may indicate home care to patients. Although this is a relatively fundamental change, and I believe that a fundamental change for the better, as I have already mentioned, is mainly about simplifying and improving the availability of care, including patients with rare diseases and so on, so the impact on the public health insurance system can only be estimated at CZK 350 million in the first year of efficiency and in the low hundreds of millions in the years following, i.e. not very large. As from 1 June 2020 and also from 1 January 2021 there has been a significant increase in the payment of insurance premiums for so-called state insured persons, the public health insurance scheme is able to absorb this increase without a problem. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled is intended to contribute in many respects to improving the functioning of public health insurance in this country for the benefit of insured people, and I would therefore like to ask you for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-005-044.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Jan Blatný for his opening words and ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Madame, President of the Health Committee Věra Adámková, for a news report. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-005-044.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the Minister has said very well, clearly the whole issue of the proposed law, and I will just deliver for those who do not deal with health care, that this is actually the most important law that we should be dealing with at the moment, because it deals comprehensively with the whole health sector and it is indeed an alpha and omega of the health services provided. In fact, it interferes with all areas of medicine in this proposed amendment and is therefore a truly crucial document. And I beg you very much to pay due attention to this. The bill is written clearly and is equipped with a relatively balanced explanatory message. Some areas, and we will see this on the committee afterwards, will still be explained so that at the next session of the Chamber of Deputies we can come up with balanced debate conclusions. I would like to draw your attention to some new things that occur. This law also deals with the important objective of clinical trials. It clearly precises the reference to a 30% positive effect. There is also Section 39da, which clearly states who is a party to the proceedings, that there may also be a relevant professional society and so on. So it's also very important that we have this point affected here. And then there's a couple of attachments. I'd like to turn your attention to get an idea. We have a categorization of medical devices prescribed for vouchers. All I have to say here is that it's 180 pages. It is a very, very detailed work and perhaps some simplification will be possible. Furthermore, we must say that there is a list of health benefits that is paid or not paid under certain conditions. It is very important that this amendment also affects the issues of dentistry, orthodontics, which is very important at present. Another thing that is very important is, of course, the authorisation of modern medicines and, of course, the payment regulation of medical devices is also important. Also important is the problem of the indication of home care, which is currently limited by Section 22 of Law 48 and it is a limited choice. So even here, this law affects this very important part of our health services. You know that Section 16 is very important to us, which we currently consider to be overused, and this amendment also deals with other medicines so that we do not have to use only § 16, but to standardize this care. [[15.50 hours]] The field needs are then based on some changes that have heard the requirements from the field, whether it be IBF's remuneration or the area of home care indication, where expertise can also be extended to indicate this. Once again, there is the possibility of improving health care. As far as these legislations are concerned, please, with the exception of part of the provisions relating to prices and reimbursements of medicines, it does not affect the law of the European Union in any way, it does not conflict with it. As far as medical devices are concerned, the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 745/2017 on medical devices follows. The proposed legislation does not affect the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound, or there is no contradiction. The proposed legislation, as we have it, should be maximum budgetary neutral. At least the expenditure of health insurance companies from operational funds may be affected, taking into account the need to ensure the revision commission. Of course, we'll see everything in the current circumstances. I think this amendment is really very important. I am asking you to be released into the next process of solution in the Chamber of Deputies and I very much believe that it will be discussed properly because it is a health for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-005-044.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mrs Věra Adámková, for her news report and I am opening up a debate on this press. I have no application for a general debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I see the content of the press has reached out to everyone. Everyone is looking forward to hearing on the committees. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. In that case, I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? Madam rapporteur? Are you interested in the final words? It's not like that. There was no motion to return or refuse. We can address the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 158. I will engage and begin voting number 158. I'm asking, who is the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 158, 85 present, for 71 Member, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone have a motion for another committee to discuss? It's not like that. There has been no proposal for shortening in the debate, so the deadline will be a legal 60 days. And I can say that we discussed the first reading of paragraph 44, printing 992. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and I conclude with this point. The Minister is right to remain in position at the rapporteur's table, because the next point is point number
