ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 600/2020 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021 /German press 1159/ - shortened negotiations The proposal submitted will be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who I hereby give the floor to. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. If you have a need to share anything with your colleagues, please tell yourself in the lobby. [[He's waiting.]] Mr Kupka only reports with a technical vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u2	I'd just like to ask for a log into the groin. I voted against in the 22nd vote, but I have a vote in favour at the end of the vote. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u3	Okay, thank you. Please, ma'am... To the vote, this is Mr Ratiborský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. It's also for the vote. At vote number 18, I've got a pro on high, I voted no. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u5	At this point, I'm going to ask the Secretary of Finance for an opening word. I'll ask everyone in the Chamber to keep their voice down or go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words. From March 1, 2020... I guess I'll just wait to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u7	I am sorry, but I would really like us to be able to keep our voice down in this Chamber, because, after all, we are going to be discussing a very important matter and it would be good for us to listen and pay attention to each other. I don't want to remind anyone, I don't want to name anyone. Please, Madam Secretary, let's try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Nearly a year has passed since March 1, 2020, when the presence of COVID-19 disease was officially confirmed on our territory for the first time. While at the very beginning of this difficult period we were dealing with the natural reflex of each of us to withdraw more inwards, into ourselves, very quickly we returned to what makes human society so rich and strong, and that is mutual cooperation and solidarity. This was not the moment when it became possible to share and compare the experiences of individual countries and their governments. For at least the first few weeks or months, we faced an accelerated course of historical events, dependent on our own judgment, the courage to take unprecedented decisions and the firm belief that our chosen path will one day be assessed as correct. As Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister for the Economy, I feel fully responsible for the intensity and direction we have chosen in the area of economic policy of the state. It was not easy in favour of immediate aid to the economy and living standards in the country to multiply the deficits of ten and thus stand at some point almost against everyone. What more was lacking in these turbulent times the possibility of a relevant comparison with other countries' governments' progress, the slower was the authoritarian recommendations of shocked international institutions and macroeconomic workplaces, the louder the squeal of economic apocalyptics and the haunting of self-proclaimed crisis economic experts. All of these popekonomas had one common feature, and that was zero responsibility. But I didn't give up my responsibility. And I certainly don't intend to do that now. The direction we have taken is right, and I am convinced of it. It is the direction of massive fiscal stimulus of the economy. Today, when we have the necessary international comparisons available, we have basically consensus recommendations from international authorities, we can read detailed assessments of the condition of our economy, including outlooks from international rating agencies. We see one thing clearly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u9	I understand, Madam Secretary. I also don't understand the fact that we are not so much here in this Chamber, and yet the level of noise is disproportionate to the importance of discussing this point. Madam Secretary, we'll wait a little longer. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A year ago, deep darkness was in the forest of the world economy. Today, however, we can look around and find that there is only one way out of the forest. And it's the path we've taken, and with us, almost all the other countries are walking on it. And I have one wish. Let's not dodge it. Let's not dodge when the darkness is over in sight. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the state's approach with which most of you have faced the challenges that have brought us this past year. Thanks to him, we have successfully launched government aid programmes, which have already released more than 300 billion crowns. Historically unprecedentedly, we invested. After all, last year alone, capital expenditure amounted to CZK 173 billion. Let us not forget that the vast majority of this aid was directed to the economy right now and only from the state budget. Wanting to help businessmen, entrepreneurs, firms or employees while not supporting adequate spending in the state budget is a contradiction and economic nonsense. It was this sturdy aid to households, companies, municipalities, or health system that helped us to significantly reduce the decline in the economy. According to preliminary figures of the Czech Statistical Office, the economy decreased by 5.6 percent in 2020. Black scenarios, which predicted double-digit falls under the weight of tense spring or autumn days, were not fulfilled. Of course, history will definitely judge everything, but an objective mitigation of economic impact is quite a strong signal that support for government action was the right decision. Strong and certainly not the only one. Of course, the reduction of the economic downturn also had a positive impact on the outcome of the cash flow for the entire last year, which showed a better result of CZK 133 billion, thanks precisely to revenues that exceeded the budgetary level by more than 100 billion. As a result, the state debt remained at the lowest level or lower than we showed in the crisis years 2012 and 2013. It is indisputable that our public finances remain among the very best in the European Union. After all, this was confirmed by the so many expected reports ´s and Fitch, which confirmed in January and February this year both the excellent evaluation of the Czech Republic from the current perspective and its stable outlook for the future. The main reasons according to credit rating agencies? Low debt, resilient economy, healthy banking sector, attractiveness for investors. [[17,00 hours]] We sent a clear signal to the proper state budget for 2021, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies in November, that the direction set is correct and we will continue to do so. In addition to the fact that the current budget for this year has increased investment in the country's future, it has fundamentally increased expenditures in the health system, education, increased the living standards of pensioners, has also brought considerable savings, something that is a bit deliberately forgotten. Of course, the saving rate of 5% of the operating costs of the State was set in such a way as not to cause unwanted interventions in the state's capacity, public services and to make economic expectations worse. We're counting on gradual consolidation. We want to return to standard conditions without creating a recession. A more self-sustaining consolidation with repeated recessions in its back simply cannot achieve its goals. Yes, it's a different approach to consolidation than we've seen in the last decade. At that time, almost immediately the second year after the recession, taxes were cut and increased to reduce the public deficit as quickly as possible. I think we should learn from old mistakes, not repeat them. In the consolidation strategy, we are counting specifically on not valorising operational expenditure, which means that it will actually fall. We are also counting on freezing the salaries of civil servants and civil servants, and I am really glad that there has been a freezing of the salaries of constitutional officials in the Chamber of Deputies. Capital expenditure without Union resources will also fall as it will gradually be supplemented by resources from the new instruments of the European Community. Over the last two years, I have reduced the number of seats by 4,300 in the budget, which has saved more than CZK 3.5 billion. And I'm definitely gonna keep doing that. I also come up with systemic changes, such as the amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act, which was approved by the two chambers of Parliament, which halted the growth of the state apparatus. We also deal with the problems of black souls, i.e. vacant seats, since January this year we have tied part of the saved money for vacant seats thanks to this amendment. In a moment, I will get to the detailed breakdown of the items for which the government has approved the amendment to this State Budget Act, which I am asking for your support. It will show that the most important reason for this amendment is to help people. I have no doubt that each of you Members is confronted daily with the stories of the people who need this help. They don't have that to pay rent, they don't have the energy, they don't have the money for school supplies or just a little dignified life. It is our duty not to let these people fall to their knees, but to intensify aid and adjust it so that none of the really needed ones fall through its sieve. I would like to stress that, in order to continue and step up this direct aid, amending the budget is a necessary condition. It's just not possible to go to the speaker's desk here, draw attention to people's sad stories, and at the same time reject the novel without which we throw these people overboard and take away the rescue circle. I am sorry, and I do not understand why the opposition claims that it cannot support the budget. One opposition coalition argues that it does not agree with the reduction in employees' taxes reflected in this draft. You think letting people have more money is a mistake, that the state would do better with these tens of billions. It is your legitimate political stance, and it is undoubtedly the position for which you are prepared to answer with your constituents. And don't doubt they'll remember that. The second opposition coalition, or the most important part of it, cannot argue by disagreeing with the reduction of employees' taxes by a quarter. She can't because she supported him. So it focuses on the spending side and de facto demands blunt cuts. Same blunt cuts she cut through from one crisis to another ten years ago. In the reality of the current budgetary situation, there is nothing but a reduction in the salaries of teachers, police officers, firefighters, paramedics, soldiers, social services workers. The proposed recipe actually means less money for self-government, less money for investment, less money for economic support and business. For me, neither path is acceptable, and there is no substitute argument that the amendment to the budget brings some cotton to the government, in any more serious examination it simply does not stand. After this amendment, the state budget will count on a total income of CZK 1,385.6 billion, which is a decrease of CZK 102.7 billion, and expenses of CZK 1,885.6 billion, i.e. an increase of CZK 77.3 billion. Deficit increases to CZK 500 billion. And now please look first at the revenue side of the state budget, where there is a decline of CZK 102.7 billion. The updated tax revenue forecast is reduced by 99,6 billion compared to the approved budget, which was due to the projection of the tax package, including the change in the budgetary determination of taxes due to the January macroeconomic forecast and the impact of the new compensation law. The income from social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy is increased by CZK 13.6 billion as a result of the January macroeconomic forecast and, at the same time, due to the higher amount of income achieved in 2020. In the chapter of the Ministry of Transport, the income from the Passivity programme is reduced to support the recovery and resilience of CZK 25 billion, the amount of CZK 25 billion to compensate for revenue lost under tax reforms was not included in the National Recovery Plan. In the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment, we propose to increase capital revenues from the sale of emission allowances by CZK 3.47 billion due to their rising prices. In the chapter of the Ministry of Health, we propose to increase revenue by CZK 5 billion due to the refund from health insurance companies for vaccines. In the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, capital revenues increase by CZK 300 million at the State Land Office. And in the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, income is reduced by CZK 450 million due to a decrease in income from consular and visa activities. On the expenditure side of the state budget, an increase of CZK 77.3 billion is proposed and these expenditures are directed towards compensatory programmes. This is a strengthening of the expenditure of the chapter General Treasury by CZK 54.1 billion, and I propose to create two new items. First - funds to support business with the amount of CZK 33.76 billion for the continuation of the Antivirus programme, for compensation for municipalities and regions, for a new compensation bonus for the Ministry of Finance and for a new programme COVID-21. The next item is called public sector support funds with a total amount of CZK 20,3 billion, health professionals' remuneration for bed care providers and school pupils' testing, subsidies for social services for employees' remuneration and increased operating expenses at the time of the epidemic. Furthermore, I propose to strengthen the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by CZK 5 billion to continue supporting COVID entrepreneurs - Gastro, closed establishments, COVID - Sport III, ski centres, and COVID - Trade Fairs. In the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I propose to increase the expenditure on active employment policy by CZK 1.7 billion, increase child allowances by CZK 2.7 billion, and budget expenditure of CZK 445 million will be paid for maintenance. In the chapter of the Ministry of Health, I propose to increase expenditure by CZK 7 billion for the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19 and for the Smart Quarantine 2.0 project, expenditure will increase by CZK 400 million and CZK 600 million for the compensation of tax liability in connection with the debt of faculty hospitals. At the Ministry of Culture it is proposed to strengthen the contribution to the operation of the contribution organizations by CZK 500 million. The expenditure of the chapter State debt is then strengthened by the amendment by CZK 4.87 billion to service the state debt. These are the clear numbers that each of you has at your disposal. The submitted amendment to the state budget therefore, as you can see from the figures, does not contain a single crown of cotton, of which some economists and some opposition wrongly suspect. It is an amendment whose acceptance and non-acceptance will decide whether we will emerge from the crisis of strong and health or choose the path of crashes, poverty and uncertainty. We are among the countries with the lowest debt and the best ratings. It is our duty to take advantage of this great position and not to shut down massive support for the economy. [[17.10 hours]] Dissatisfied health situations and mutating virus mean complications in each of us's lives, and the state budget is logically no exception. Although the deficit with the amendment will grow, I believe that these higher expenditures are nothing more than an investment in a return to normal as quickly as possible. As a result, the Czech Republic will return. Please keep this in mind when making your decision. Thank you for your attention and please help our country to pass the biggest test in its modern history by approving the state budget amendment for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u11	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Let's keep going. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1159/1. I would now like the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u12	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 51st meeting of 17 February 2021: "After the opening words of the Minister of Finance, after the news report and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 12.00 on 19 February 2021; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 600/2020 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, the House Press 1159, agreed, if necessary as amended by the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; V. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to: (a) she informed this resolution of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, (b) in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it has made appropriate legislative technical adaptations." This was the resolution approved by the Committee on Budgets. As far as the hearing is concerned, it has already been said here. Indeed, the Committee on Budgets asked the Minister, in particular, to mention in her introductory words the procedure for the possible consolidation of the deficit proposed, which the Minister has done from my point of view. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u13	Thank you. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I'll check you out on request. Please log in with your cards. By voting order number 28, we will decide whether we will hold a general debate. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 28, registered by 100 Members, for 99 against was no one. The motion was accepted. So, at this point, I am opening up a general debate in which we have priority rights for the SPD member of Mr Hrnčíř and for the Czech Pirate Party of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. I ask Mr Jan Hrnčíř to take the floor with the SPD's opinion. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I give the SPD's opinion on the budget, after all, I dare say something about the state of the legislative emergency. I have a feeling this government coalition is enjoying these emergencies. She must rule in an emergency, because it is easier for her to discuss laws, preferably all, in a state of legislative emergency, so that the laws are passed in one day, so that the opposition does nothing but staphage. After all, no one can come seriously in the middle of February at this turbulent time and say: I know exactly what the expenses will be by the end of the year, and that is why we need to approve a change in the state budget for this year in one day. That's nonsense. If this were in May or June, I would have believed it, but to approve spending in a legislative emergency in mid-February. Maybe 500 billion won't be enough. In May, we can meet again here, that we will need more. No one really knows that. So I will now comment on the budget as such. We in the SPD cannot support an increase in the state budget deficit, because the government is constantly refusing to save on unnecessary expenditure in the crisis, such as overpriced foreign purchases of military technology, payments to solar barons, political nonprofits, or failed inclusion in education or disability benefits. I also consider the constant increase in the cost of public administration to be alarming. This year, the government plans to recruit nearly 5,000 new civil servants. It is totally unacceptable to increase expenditure in areas of unaddressed social benefits inadaptable, inclusion in education, the financing of political nonprofits and the number of foreign operations of our army. Over the past seven years, the governments of YES and ČSSD have increased the number of civil servants by 60,000 people, which has increased the demands of the state budget by 50 billion crowns a year. There were at least nine new state authorities and institutions. A permanent increase in the number of civil and public servants creates an artificial shortage of labour and a false need for the import of labour from abroad. I don't mind spending on the military if it also helps our economy and employment. Poland or Finland, at this time, preferred to domestic modernize military technology before expensive purchases abroad. At this point, I consider it unreasonable to carry out military purchases of foreign technology. We will only support foreign economies. In the first month of this year, the state budget's management ended in a deficit of CZK 31,5 billion. In fact, only 8 billion 700 million in January went to the covido compensation for those who were reduced by the government. The government is constantly telling us that we will invest from the current crisis and rejecting savings. It is very clear from the implementation of the January budget that even investments fell by 11 percent year on year. On the contrary, the government debt service has increased significantly, i.e. the interest that we pay the creditors for the state loans. Last January it was 300 million crowns, this year it was a billion and 400 billion crowns (?) Crowns. I can't go on like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u15	Thank you. Another with priority rights - for the club of the Czech Pirate Party, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will perform. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us consider what led to this amendment. There are two reasons. The first reason is the tax package that put a hole in the budget of CZK 100 billion, and the government refused to incorporate this tax change into the approved budget at the time. The second reason is that the Prime Minister decided in June that the second wave of cod will not be, that there will never be any more horizontal measures and that we do not have to scare the second wave as opposition and that there is no need to prepare for it. In this context, the government has also proposed a state budget without any plan on how to do with the possible second - what we would give today if it were just the second - the moment the fourth wave of cod is starting - so without getting ready for the second wave at all. So in that government-approved budget, which eventually pushed through the House, they didn't count on any coronation to come, even though, of course, the whole world knew that by then. By then, the numbers were huge, people died by hundreds a day, yet the government ignored the situation. That's why we have this novel. [[17.20 hours]] Madam Secretary says, well, you're the evil coalition who wanted to leave the money to the state instead of handing it out to people like us. But it's not like that at all. There is no money in this budget that is given to citizens instead of being given to the state. The $100 billion you didn't collect in taxes, so you didn't lower the state's spending on them at all. There's not a single crown of savings here, which means you took the $100 billion you didn't choose, you kept it in your budget, you still approved it, so you didn't adjust your expenses in any way, and now you're doing what you're saying, and because it's not going to be chosen, we have to borrow $100 billion more. So the way the government deals with tax cuts is that they borrow all the money they don't collect. We're acting like a guy who doesn't have the rent, he's still taking a consumer credit for a new TV. That's exactly what our government is doing. It's not normal to borrow money to lower taxes, which the same people will have to pay with interest. People are going to have to pay interest for taxes that we haven't just collected and that we will have to pay in the future. That is an incomprehensible step, and whoever approves this budget will concrete the tax package into our budget system in a way that the share between savings and debt increases will be zero savings, everything on debt. That doesn't make any sense. The state was at least supposed to save some of that 100 billion. Then we could talk about whether the state or the people will do more effectively. But the moment the state didn't take anything out of the expense and just borrows it, of course, those people will eventually pay for it, but it's going to go away a little bit. But you don't care because you're acting like a flood after us. That's probably the basic reservation against the proposal. Then we are concerned that the government's budget reserve may not be used to help businesses, but that the government will use it for election gifts, as it did in 2020. That's our concern. Madam Secretary is suffocating that he's not planning something like this, but we'll talk about it in June or September. I hope she'll live up to that promise she made on the budget committee. Anyway, we've heard too many promises, unfortunately. For these reasons, the pirát will not support the draft budget. We believe that the 100 billion could be dealt with better, especially at a time when a number of businesses are in a completely catastrophic situation today, and that it was simply a bad step to not collect taxes that helped the richest, for example, for Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u17	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Václav Klaus will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, a brief position of the Tricolor. Yesterday, 98 years passed, when the finance minister Alois Rašín, shot by a communist-anarchist assassin, died in a nearby Podolian sanatorium. I must say that today I took part in a memorial act outside the house in Žitná Street, where Alois Rašín lived. When I thought about it with this prism, I have to say one thing: Alois Rašín was the Minister of Finance not long after a completely devastating world war. He was Minister of Finance at the time of the tens of millions of deaths from the Spanish flu then. However, even with the commitment of his life, he defended a balanced budget and the Czech crown. Thanks to him, for decades, we have been a country of monetary stability and the Czech koruna has been a model and is still a strong and strong currency. Excuse me, Minister Rašín was in a much more difficult situation than we are now, but our solution is that we already have communist anarchists here, shaking at the government, and Madam Secretary - if I may disturb you... [[The Minister shall speak to the rapporteur at the rapporteur's table.]] You're more of an archetype of the real negation of what Alois Rašín said. He said the Republic isn't a cash cow. Your approach to the budget is exactly the opposite, that somehow the republic is a milk cow. It's the wrong way, it's the bold way, it's the way that the citizens of this republic will pay, and the Trikolóra will not vote for these games of yours here. If the ODS and the pirát or anyone else are gonna help you, it doesn't matter, but you have to know that especially in the light of that sad 98th anniversary, you're not doing it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going back to the legislative emergency. I really think that this is an undignified Chamber of Deputies and undignified democratic principles at all. I am concerned that in the whole year of this crisis, you have not presented even one crown of savings. You say you don't want to make blunt cuts. So don't make blunt cuts, make them sharp, or maybe even smarter cuts. But you need to save money. You say there's no where, that we want to take people's money, their wages. It's not true. You, Madam Secretary through Mr President, boasted yesterday on the Committee on Budgets how you solved the black soul system. So solve not only the black souls, but also the sleeping souls. And finally rethink your policy in the context of programs that are not really needed at this point. There's no need for fare discounts. Not at the moment, really. You have been here for many years especially in growth, but unfortunately, even now, during the crisis, you are buying your voters with various discounts, various gifts and various extraordinary payments. Why didn't you spare your growth? You're bragging about a great rating here, but it's not your fault for the rating. It's the businessmen and people who helped this country grow. Are you saying that it is absolutely necessary to adopt this amendment to the state budget in order to come out strong from this crisis? Is this a joke? I can't believe this. We're here today to approve an increase in the state budget deficit of 180 billion to a total of 500 billion, which is an unimaginable amount. You'll be left with the burned ground. After you there will be future political representation - and I hope you will be replaced by democratic parties - to put this situation, I dare say, for decades together. Why didn't you come up with system measures? Why has nothing been done on pension reform? These are the things that are absolutely necessary to restore our economy after this crisis. I would also like to divide the discussion into two parts of the proposal itself into part of the revenue and part of the expenditure. We, although we did not vote for the tax package as the TOP 09, perceive that, as far as the revenue page is concerned, the proposal corresponds to reality, the adjusted growth estimate and, above all, the projection of this tax package. As far as the revenue side is concerned, it is a statement of reality, and that is undoubtedly something that needs to be reflected in the budget. [[17.30 hours]] However, as far as the spending party is concerned, we cannot agree there with the increase in the state budget deficit by 77 more billions, given what we are repeating here over and over again, that you have not proposed a single smart austerity measure for a whole year. Therefore, in a detailed debate, I will make an amendment so that this amendment will update the revenue side of the budget, but not the expenditure side. We are willing to support this form, which will mean the reality of the budget, as the TOP 09, not any further increase in the expenditure of the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u21	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný and Vice-President Filip will prepare himself and then Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I will allow myself in the general debate and then, in detail, submit to my colleague Vít Kaňkovský amendment. This is not a surprise or new issue from the KDU-ČSL MEP's club. We have always cared about funding social services and, above all, about not getting back into those problems during the year when social services will not be properly funded. Therefore, we also want to draw attention to this issue within the framework of today's amendment to the State Budget Act for 2021. It has not been fully settled in the context of the state budget proposal before Christmas, which is why we are coming up with an amendment where we want to determine, in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury under public sector support appropriations, the amount of 3 billion 34 million just to finance social services. Allow me to give a brief explanation of this amendment. During the discussion of the State Budget Act for 2021, both the professional public and representatives of certain member clubs were repeatedly made aware of the lack of financial coverage of social services under the State Budget subsidy from Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. By KDU-ČSL, an amendment to the financing of social services amounting to CZK 2 billion was tabled in the state budget of 2021, while it should be said that this proposed increase would not cover all the needs of this sector. Other amendments were also tabled by other parliamentary clubs. The causes of the deficit in social services are mainly the end-of-life support for so-called individual projects from European Union subsidy titles, also the approved budget for social services subsidies, which does not fully cover the costs of continuing the transformation of psychiatric care, and also lacks funding for promised wage increases in social services. All these reasons add to the costs of continuing the COVID-19 pandemic, which, according to all predictions, will continue for a number of months, as well as the costs of promised remuneration for social services workers. According to a detailed analysis of the Association of Regions, the regions are currently registering a deficit in the financing of social services for this year amounting to CZK 3 billion 34 million. I therefore note that this is precisely the amount which is the subject of the amendment. The government in the amendment to the State Budget Act provides for an increase in the subsidy for social services under the new heading in Chapter 398 under the name of public sector support funds. However, this appropriation also includes CZK 20,3 billion for the remuneration of health care providers for the COVID-19 pandemic, for the testing of school pupils, for the culture affected by the COVID-19 epidemic and so on. However, the amendment does not specify the amount that is intended to finance the social services mentioned by me. For these reasons, we propose that the necessary amount of 3 billion 34 million to finance social services be specified in the newly established social service subsidy item, employees' remuneration and increased operating costs at the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, so that the amount of social services financing was clearly, clearly, clearly and firmly fixed. This measure will give at least some certainty to social service providers that they will be able to provide important care to clients in the present difficult situation without reducing the amount of care or reducing its quality. The amendment was prepared by my colleague Vít Kaňkovský and I beg you in advance for his support. I will immediately sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u23	Thank you. At this moment, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip will appear, Mr Bartošek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u24	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I had no intention of speaking, but Mr Jakob provoked me to do so with the words of a burned country. This was first used by Miloš Zeman in 1997, when Klausův' so-called packages began. This was at a time when only a part of the Czech Republic's CZK 2.8 trillion of basic production resources was left in the hands of the sucker after massive privatisation, and even then President Václav Havel said that it was impossible to trace nearly CZK 490 billion that were lost somewhere. Yes, that was the burned ground, that was the outage and the robbery of the state. I see the burned ground a little differently than I think a colleague named Jakob. I am not talking to him now through the President, but to all of us, to consider the situation in which we are in, and whether we are to talk about the fact that the funds are going to be borrowed by the state and bail out the support of those who produce, who employ, and those who feed on their own hands and their head, or if we are going to force them to take credit, bankrupt, taken over by banks that are in foreign hands, or if we are going to let them go to a state where someone buys them cheaply in an audition. That is the question that we must ask ourselves today when approving this state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u25	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob will make a point of fact. Mr Bartošek, Mr Skopeček, is also reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u26	Thank you. Of course we want to support entrepreneurs and businessmen. Who else is gonna put this country together financially? After all, they are the ones who make up the revenue of the state budget. But we don't want some political parties to vote here from the state budget forever and ever. Don't waste your resources like this and use them to keep those entrepreneurs and businessmen from falling and to bring the funds into the state budget someday when this crisis passes. You'll be left with the burned ground. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u27	Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u28	Hello. We're gonna be here a long time anyway. I would have responded to my previous speaker, Mr. Jakob. Your predecessor Mr. Kalousek used to be funny sometimes, and now you've made me laugh too. You guys are fighting in the boobs here and you want to protect the businessmen, and five minutes ago, you approved four-million-dollar fines under that Babiš-Hamacian Pandemic law. I think that's the protection of businessmen like a foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u29	Thank you. Mr Bartošek will speak in the debate, Mr Skopeček will be prepared, Mrs Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would briefly return to approving the budget for this year, when the support of the Communist Party to this budget was conditional, among other things, on the fact that the Army of the Czech Republic took 10 billion. I am convinced that this was a big mistake, and I am coming up with an amendment because if we want an army that is capable of protecting us, which is well-armed and trained, and fulfilling its alliance commitments, that money should be returned to the military. This is about it, and here I want to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, especially from the government movement YES, to help the Prime Minister fulfill the promise he made. When the 10 billion army were married, he said we'd transfer the money back to the first government in January. And it didn't. At present, only 5 billion have been transferred, and this government owes 5 billion back to the Ministry of Defence budget it promised. So my amendment will help you, colleagues, to fulfill what the Prime Minister has promised. So I'm asking for your support. My amendment moves the remaining amount of 5 billion back to the Ministry of Defence's budget, and this proposal will ensure that the defence budget is strengthened so that the Army of the Czech Republic can continue the initial modernisation projects of strategic importance, but above all it is that they are projects previously approved by the government by conceptual documents, that is, the long-term defence outlook by 2035, the Construction Concept of the Czech Army until 2030, so nothing happens except that this government will be able to implement the projects it has committed itself to. This will prevent the liquidation of the investment plan and, above all, the volatility of acquisitions in the long term, when most projects are multi-annual and intervention within one year will destabilise the following years. Since the original budget of the defence department was 30 percent of the investment, which is implemented to a considerable extent by the Czech industry, it brings multiplier effects for the investment budget in the domestic industry and the labour market. And I believe that this is exactly what the Czech Republic needs because it will support employment in a number of our regions. Finally, I would like to point out that there is no commitment towards our NATO allies, and thus a 2% share of GDP defence spending in 2024. This commitment has been confirmed by the Czech Republic many, many times by the mouth of its representatives and in a number of documents, and the current government and the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic are also reporting to it. Either they are, dear government and dear members of the government movement YES, documents that you honor and respect, or you are aware that these documents aimed at defending the Czech Republic are just a piece of paper that you do not really want to respect and thus endanger the security of the Czech Republic. Either you demonstrate your autonomy and ability to support this amendment, or you prove your own weakness and willingness to be blackmailed by the Communist Party, as has been done so far. The final decision will be up to you, and I firmly believe that you will support the independent and secure Czech Republic and will help the Army of the Czech Republic, which, in the current situation, helps either in collection points, hospitals, retirement homes and elsewhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u31	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Patrik Nacher apologises for today's and tomorrow's negotiations for health reasons. Mr Skopeček will speak in the debate, Mrs Kovářová will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u32	Thank you very much. I will try to be very brief. As an ODS club, of course, we will not support the amendment to the budget, as it was submitted. The reason is simple. We see an increase in the deficit to 500 billion really inexcusably high number, the deficit is huge, and when we compare last year, when the economy dropped record in the history of the Czech Republic, according to preliminary data it dropped by more than 5%, and last year we managed to manage a budget that fit into a deficit of less than 400 billion. In that year, when all institutions, including the Ministry of Finance, predict growth for the Czech economy, unlike last year's decline, the Minister plans an even greater deficit than we had in the previous year. That doesn't make any sense, and this fact alone doesn't allow me to raise my hand for the novel. The novel doesn't even contain any, even symbolic, savings. I think that at a time when both companies, households, citizens of the Czech Republic must make an inventory of their expenditures, it is a disgrace to this government that it has not been able to present at least symbolically some savings to citizens of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. Instead of saving, we see ads from the Financial Administration that it wants to recruit other employees, probably to control those closed businesses and entrepreneurs who cannot do business under government restrictions. The change is premature, too. In fact, we have waited a lot longer for the draft budget for this year than it was customary in the Chamber of Deputies in recent years. The Minister's argument was that he wanted to have the latest data so that the draft budget could be realistic. Today, this argument of why we received the draft budget for this year later does not apply, and on the contrary, it comes with a huge change at the beginning of the year. I would understand the update of the budget in the framework of the approved tax package, I would have had nothing against it, but the further increase on the huge CZK 500 billion could have waited, given that we could have had precise figures on how the economy will evolve this year. For all these reasons, the budget for a man who has an ambition for a country to manage and have sustainable finances in the coming years cannot use such a budget. Madam Secretary used a photo today with Prime Minister Alois Rašín, the Prime Minister of Finance, asking how he would proceed. Well, Madam Secretary, I think that today in the context of what you're presenting, he would ask you to take that photo off and return to the moment another minister joins the Ministry of Finance, who will understand the legacy of Alois Rašín. The legacy of Alois Rašín was a very responsible approach to public finances, not the spinning of the debt spiral that you're doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u33	Thank you. In the debate, Mrs Kovářová, the last one to be applied for so far, will come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the Mayor's and Independent Club. The draft amendment to the state budget can be summarised as follows. The government has voluntarily and irresponsiblely lost 100 billion revenue, and the result is that it has no money to fight pandemics and has no money for covido programs and other support for all those affected. And the result? The result is a record deficit of CZK 500 billion. Deficit at a time of such a crisis would not, I think, mind if expenditure, or loss of income, were really involved in the fight against pandemics. Unfortunately, the Treasury and the government did not do this. The government laid the basis for the record deficit last year, approving the tax package and undermining the income of CZK 100 billion, although many MEPs, a number of renowned economists and the National Budget Board strongly pointed out that the government was doing this at an entirely inappropriate time, and also pointed out that the government was not looking for any compensation for a CZK 100 billion outage, and we, some Members, as well as those reputable economists as irresponsible behavior. [[17.50 hours]] And the result? And the result is that the government now has no money to support business, no money to reward health professionals, vaccinations, Antivirus, compensation, and increases expenses. I have to say that when I look at the structure of these expenses, it is essentially not what to factor out except for some things such as that it is not quite clear what some items are going to go to, and they are not exactly specified there. But, okay, there's a need for help, and I understand these expenses. But what we cannot understand and we do not agree and we do not agree with is the revenue gap that the government caused by an irresponsible decision of CZK 100 billion. The Minister keeps saying that the opposition doesn't think about people. But that's not true. We think about people, but we want to act responsibly and think about the future of our state, the balance and sustainability of our public finances, so that those ratings, Madam Secretary, do not fall on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u35	Thank you, too. Mr. Roman Onderka reporting for the CSSD Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we are discussing an amendment to the state budget for 2021. We're probably in a period that's historic, because the month after the state budget has been approved, we meet to adjust it. Many of us here on the microphone at the Chamber of Deputies plenary drew attention to this when we approved the tax package and the abolition of the supergross wage, for which the Social Democrats did not vote once, because we still think that the abolition of the supergross wage brought financial bonuses mainly to the richer. I confess, I'm gonna have to commend Secretary Schillerová here for doing this very cleverly with the proposal. It included about CZK 100 billion from this tax package, which we approved in December last year, and added items which, in my opinion and the view of social democracy, are essential for the functioning of the state this year and especially at this time. If we're talking about the 38 billion that are allocated here to extend the Antivirus program from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we can talk about social services, so I can continue. I do not want to burden you, because I am sure you have read this amendment. So these are things that, in my opinion, are really important, and I will even say that they are necessary. Unfortunately, and I don't want to play the prophet, I have to say that maybe until the holidays we can also meet here again over another amendment to the state budget. It should be noted that the pandemic situation is not good in the Czech Republic. Vaccines are very late, and this is related, of course, to vaccination, and not only to the elderly, the oldest, the most endangered, but to the entire population in the Czech Republic. Therefore, all restrictions on companies, all restrictions on trade and the functioning of the economy of the Czech Republic are so limited that we may indeed have to increase the deficit of the state budget of the Czech Republic and we will have to talk about it before the holidays. I do not want to be an evil prophet, but it is also necessary to realise that the debt brake awaits us now in 2024. And if we don't think about where to cut any state spending, if we don't think about what new taxes to do, and here I'm going to keep pointing out that there's still a digital tax on the table, there's still a bank tax on the table, which means taxes that can somehow help the budget and the economic situation in which we find ourselves. Public budgets are not an easy thing, and just as we are dealing with them here, they are faced by municipalities, cities and regions of the Czech Republic. We must not forget this because they are also closest to the citizens of the Czech Republic. And in the event of lack of money, they will either make the services more expensive or limit these services. And I think that none of us, and now whether it is the left or the right, wants us to reduce the comfort of the citizens of the Czech Republic, except what everyone is experiencing today. The situation is really not easy with regard to the spread of coronavirus, and I think that we should now help the citizens, not make them harder and cause more problems. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Secretary, to one thing, and to your promise that you gave me on the Committee on Budgets, when I asked you that the funds that we will approve be released as soon as possible to finance the remuneration of health professionals in the Czech Republic. Those who are in the front line, those who protect the lives of the citizens of this country. I am actually convinced that she deserves it, because the work is not only physically, but mainly mentally demanding and at least this gesture, and I stress, with a small gesture, we could express our gratitude to these very people who are making such a big sacrifice for all of us today. Social democracy would not support the amendment if there were only 100 billion to solve the problem you voted for, the YES movement with the Civil Democratic Party last December. But in view of the fact that there are items that this state really needs for its functioning and protection of its citizens, social democracy will therefore vote in favour of this amendment to the State budget for 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u37	I also thank you, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u38	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary complained that my speech was too short. [[Secretary - a note from the newsroom table off the microphone.]] Or I'm sorry, I'm glad. I just wanted to ask more about the compensation bonus and the state budget. There the amount of 18 billion is expected for a compensation bonus in just two months, i.e. for the two new compensatory periods. And that means that if the compensatory bonus, because you can extend it, the compensatory one, the government's regulation, how it would be in custody of the state budget and whether you have a reserve there, or if a government budget amendment would be necessary again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u39	Well, thank you, too. I have no one enrolled in the general debate electronically or from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Is there any interest in the final words - Madam Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I promised I'd be brief because I think I've answered everything many times. This is the seventh budget for my operation at the Treasury Department. Let's make this brief. Ambassador Jakob. I was rather writing down things that interest me. He's not here, well, too bad. [[Member Jakob reporting.]] Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry, so sorry. You say you want to save money, but in the short time you are in the Chamber of Deputies, you're giving one amendment - we're going to be dealing with, I suppose, a compensation bonus with a hole on the expense side - after another. So it needs to be told which expenses you'd be saving. Which one? Because when you look, the budget consists primarily of transfers. Most notably to households, pensions, sickness, parental benefits, unemployment benefits, other insurance, non-insurable social benefits, transfers to territorial budgets, where salaries are a significant item in regional education, transfers to public health, capital expenditure, subsidies such as OZE, now Antivirus, there are collective consumption services, including military, police, customs, courts, legislation, including the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, but also legislative and administrative services at ministries. So you need to define what the traffic is and where you'd get it. That'd be nice if somebody did it here. You talked about it the most, so maybe you did. Mr. Skopečka - I don't know if the MP is here, that's okay. While we did, in the macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance - hello, I did not see you, I missed you - so in the macroeconomic forecast we expect a growth of 3.1 %, but we come from the basement, so he is very mild, very mild growth. [[to Mr Skopeček, who came before the speaker's desk]] Well, let's just say that. And thank you for watching my Facebook, my social networks, and for currently knowing that I paid tribute to Minister Rašín, which, of course, I did very gladly and very sincerely. Mr. Ferjenčík. I'm just remembering when you were putting those amendments to the discounts in the package, they were pretty big holes, too, if it had been passed, and some of them even passed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so just to the edge. And the tax package was approved by Parliament, so, of course, I had to work on it and work on it until the amendment. To Mr Onderk. Thank you, I don't see him either, never mind, but at least thank you for the microphone. Thank you. I made that promise yesterday, we're counting on over 12 billion to pay the paramedics. Health has already been rehearsed the grant program from last year, and I will personally see to it that, if there is an amendment to the State Budget Act, next week he will process and health professionals will be rewarded as soon as possible. Mr. Výborný. Yes, we're counting on $5 billion in social service rewards in the VPS. Five billion! The Minister has one billion in unexploited demands, where she did not spend on last year's social service subsidy, so 6 billion will go to social service rewards. So this is the item we're counting on in that VPS, it goes through the government, easy to check. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u41	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Let's keep going. This was the final word. I suppose another final word is no longer needed. There have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time. So I'm opening up a detailed debate in which I have three applications at the moment. Mr Hrnčíř is the first to sign in, Mr Kopřiva will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to sign up for two amendments. The first one under number 7494 de facto cancels the increase in the deficit and the House press under number 7503 is an amendment that shifts CZK 3 billion to inclusion in favour of special education. [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u43	Thank you. Yes, the proposals were, I believe, justified in more detail earlier. And now please Mr Kopřiva, Mr Jakob will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, I would like to load the House's accompanying budget resolution. I will allow myself to justify it briefly, then I will read it, I have already handed it over to the rapporteur and I will ask you for his support. Now, what's going on? It's about fighting tax havens. And I only want the House to take a stand and call on the government to actively fight tax havens at European Union level, because because of them, because of tax optimization of large companies, only the Czech budget loses around CZK 8 to 10 billion each year. It can be traced to tax justice.net. According to this survey, it is up to 10 billion crowns a year. In a situation where the budget is facing such an unprecedented revenue loss in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, the Czech Republic needs the money more than ever. At the level of the Council of the European Union, the proposal for public country-by-country reporting is called. PCBCR is to be discussed on 25 February 2021 at a meeting of the Competitiveness Council, or COMPET, which is why I am loading it today. It's not a fad or a sticker, I'm loading it because it's going to be voted on in the next few days. This public reporting of the profits of large companies has the potential to make a significant contribution to the settlement of the current system, unhealthy tax competition and so-called. the race to the bottom of those tax havens that are within the European Union. According to this proposal, corporations with a worldwide turnover of more than EUR 750 million would be obliged to publish basic accounting data broken down by country, i.e. income, profits, number of employees or amount of tax paid. It would be so easy to detect which company makes profits into tax havens and does not pay its fair share in individual countries, i.e. also in the Czech Republic, and we could see how much the company is losing us. At the same time, there would not be a reduction in the competitiveness of these companies or an disproportionate administrative burden, since the proposal calls for publication only of basic accounting data and would pay in pan-European terms. Many companies have already published these data. I would just like to remind you that this proposal for public reporting of revenue has been at Union level for a longer time, but for some procedural reasons, it should always be decided on the Ecofin, where the Minister goes, but unanimity is required, whereas the qualified majority is sufficient for that COMPET, and therefore we could overrule those tax European paradises. And now why it doesn't matter that it's really just a procedural matter, that it's not really some tax directive, it's just accounting, so it's totally legitimate in the pirát' opinion to vote on it on the COMPET where we could contribute as the Czech Republic to fighting tax havens. The position of the Czech Government, as far as I know, was neutral, virtually. the statement was that the Czech Government supported it factually, but we just did not know quite clearly whether we would be actively voting for the inclusion on the COMPET. That is why I would like the Chamber of Deputies to call on the government to actively help push it and vote in favour of the proposal for public country-by-country reporting. I will now read the resolution. It is very simple, it has two points: "First, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to actively combat the tax evasion of multinational corporations, thereby increasing the tax revenue of the state budget. Secondly, it asks the Government to support the proposal of the so-called EU Council at the meeting. public country-by-country reporting, which will significantly increase the accounting transparency of large companies." Dear colleagues, that's all I'm saying. Please consider supporting this accompanying resolution on the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u45	Thank you, too. And I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes to us from 18:00 to the end of the day due to urgent work issues. I now ask Mr Jakob in a detailed debate, and then Mr Výborný came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u46	Thank you, Mr President. As I have announced in the general debate, I am applying to my amendment under number 7520. The content of this amendment is that, in fact, only the part on the revenue side of the budget remains in the amendment, i.e. putting the current situation as it really is, and legislatively, and the whole part of the expenditure page is deleted. As a result, in contrast to the proposal presented, the balance will be reduced by 77 billion to around 422 billion. Thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u47	Thank you. And now there is the first Mr Výborný, then there is Mr Bartošek from the post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would therefore like to sign up for the amendment of my colleague Vít Kaňkovský, who is under the number of House document 7518. And I will only allow myself to respond briefly to the Minister in a detailed debate. Thank you for the $5 billion reward. That's very important. And I'm sure it has our support. However, what we are proposing here together with our colleague Kaňkovský, more than 3 billion, does not concern the remuneration, but this concerns the financing of social services, which means operation and salaries. And that's where the regions really are at this point. So make sure we don't confuse the two piles. We can hardly finance social services from the rewards. That is why we are making this amendment. And thank you for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u49	Thank you. And now, Mr. Jan Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I refer to the justification for my amendment from a detailed debate. It is under House number 7505. I will only add, Prime Minister, I am very glad that you have come, because this amendment of mine allows you to fulfill the promise that you made publicly, and that is that you will return the money you took from the army when approving the budget for this year. You paid back $5 billion to the army, thanks for that. But the promise you made publicly is that you will pay them back in January. So at present, you have the opportunity to support my amendment, thereby fulfilling your promise. I firmly believe that you are serious about the promises you make publicly. That would make you an honest man if you supported this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u51	Thank you. Now, Mrs Kovářová from her place, then Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to sign up for House document 7537. The essence of this amendment is support for the loss of sales for the regions. And the cuts in sales are about public transport. The number of public transport passengers decreased significantly in the context of the Coronanavir pandemic wave and other exceptional measures in 2020. Furthermore, the regions, as the orderers of this transport, have been repeatedly asked by government representatives to limit the number of connections in order to avoid a high concentration of passengers on buses and trains. Of course we understand this challenge. On the other hand, sales fell significantly, but the public transport costs remained unchanged. [[Big noise in the hall.]] In some countries of the European Union, the State has proceeded to compensate the regions for the loss of fare revenue. I interviewed Minister Havlíček several times and asked him if he would also consider some compensation for the regions for the outages of sales. Total blackouts amount to more than CZK 3.6 billion in 2020. We're suggesting--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u53	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues in the room for some peace. We're getting noise levels. I understand the vote is coming. However, this is not actually the case. And I'm going to ask you for peace so that the plaintiffs can speak in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u54	I interviewed Minister Havlíček several times to see if he would consider the support for the loss of sales in public transport. He refused. Several times he also dealt with representatives of the Association of Regions and at the last meeting he said that he would still consider this support. It is clear that such significant cuts in sales will cause, and it is already planned in some regions, that some connections will be restricted, and they also plan to increase, unfortunately, the fare increase. Therefore, I think it would be fair for the government and the Chamber of Deputies, as well as your colleagues, to consider the transfer of CZK 1.3 billion, which is about one third of the blackout, from the item that is called the compensation for the fare discounts that he plans, has a CZK 6 billion earmarked there. Last year this amount was not exhausted and it is clear that it will not be exhausted even this year. That is why I think it would be good for the regions to partially compensate for these failures so that they do not have to cancel the connections in order to maintain the connections, because public transport is definitely a very important part of both work and recreational mobility. I therefore ask you to support my amendment, which compensates the regions of CZK 1.3 billion for losses in sales for 2020, which amounted to a total of CZK 3.6 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u55	Thank you. And at this point, Mr Ferjenčík is still registered from his seat. At this point, it's the last application, unless anyone else is going to come forward. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna join the motion for a rework if he didn't fall. But I do know that some colleagues have given him an update, so I'm giving him a deadline, if I'm not mistaken, there's a minimum period of 20 days, but I don't know if this is true in this format of the amendment, so within this time limit, if necessary. Anyway, I wanted to briefly respond to the Minister about the discount on the taxpayer. We are proud that we have pushed for an increase in the discount on a taxpayer who has not been compared with inflation. We thought it was appropriate. But I would like to ask you to make it clear whether it was a success, because you write on your Facebook page that you haven't forgotten the tradesmen either, or I have enforced it in spite of your will. Well, then I guess it would be nice to clarify whether the discount was good or bad from your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u57	Thank you. I've noticed the proposal. And in that case, it looks like we've discussed the whole debate. I would therefore end the detailed debate. And now, where appropriate, there is room for final words after a detailed debate as to whether the Minister or the rapporteur is interested. Not interested. In that case, I believe that there have been no proposals that we should vote on now, because the return to recasting is not until the third reading. And I would therefore end the second reading of this proposal if no one objects. [[18.20 hours]] Now it is necessary to take a break to process the proposal. I've got an update that should be at least 40 minutes. In that case, if no one is against it, I would suggest that we interrupt the discussion of this point until the process and the written presentation of an overview of the amendments for at least 40 minutes. [[Voices from the diaper.]] So if there's no time to process the proposal, I don't know, I need to... The rapporteur is ready, okay. Well, then, Mr. President with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u58	In the event that the rapporteur is ready, I have advised the managing director that before the final vote in the third reading, the KSČM club wants to take a break and discuss in detail both the amendments and the final position. Therefore, I now request a break for a meeting of the KSČM Club for 30 minutes. And the KSČM club, please meet at the Vice-President of the House of Filip's office right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u59	Okay. In that case, I will now adjourn the hearing for 30 minutes, and I will also interrupt the House meeting for 30 minutes. So I'll meet you here at 18.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before I open the point, I'm getting word from Mr. Vice-President, sorry, Chairman Chvojka, so I'll give him the floor in between. Please. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, colleagues, we are close to the 19th hour, and I think we still have some work to do, so I, on behalf of the two MPs, specifically on behalf of the ČSSD MP and the ANO MP, suggest that the Chamber of Deputies should act and take a decision on the ground and to vote on all proposals today after 19th and after 21st hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u62	Well, thank you, that is certainly a valid proposal that we can vote on. I've already called my colleagues to the ballroom, but some of them are still coming, so I'll wait a little longer for those who are coming. I'm hearing an application for check-out. I've logged you out, please sign up with your cards again. And for those who are coming, I will repeat that there has been a proposal for us to act today and vote in a procedural and territorial manner after 19 and 21 o'clock. I think we have enough numbers that are stable... No, it's still moving, so I'll wait a little longer... It seems that the number has stabilized, although I see other Members who have arrived in the hall. So I repeat, we are voting today to negotiate and vote in a procedural and territorial manner after 19 and 21 o'clock. I started voting number 29. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 29, 161 Members and Members are enrolled, 162 finally, for 154, against 1. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that we've approved that we're going to vote today after 19 and 21 o'clock. And now, if no one else claims to be among the points, I would reopen point two, which is a government bill amending Law No. 600/2020 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, House press 1159, shortened negotiations. I would begin by saying that I am sorry that I have misled Mr Ferjenčík, because I believe he has already been informed, and I will give him a word if he wishes to object to my procedure, or we will move on to the third reading. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u63	I really wanted to modify my proposal just technically so that instead of going back to redoing the motion to reject the amendment. I think it'll solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u64	Thank you, yes, that is an appropriate correction of the procedure, because it is not possible to return to recast, because such a proposal can only fall at first reading, whether it is the law or the budget, and we did not have the first reading. So we've dealt with this, and I'm opening a third reading that I don't have any applications for the debate at the moment. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act can follow the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, so I have already started the third reading of the submitted government proposal. I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets to be at the rapporteur's table. So, anybody reporting for the debate? I see no one reporting to the debate at third reading, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final words after the third reading. It's not like that. In that case, we will proceed to the vote and please the rapporteur, Miloslava Vostroa, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u65	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to propose a voting procedure. We would be the first to vote on Mr Ferjenčík's motion to reject the amendment. In the event that this amendment does not pass, we will vote on the various amendments as agreed by colleagues in a detailed debate. This means that we would continue with the amendment under number 7503 to Mr Hrnčíř, 7520 to Mr Potter... Now my Hrnčíř fellow fell out, so we'd start a different way. 7494 Mr Hrnčíř, 7503 Mr Hrnčíř, 7520 Mr Jakob, 7518 Mr Vít Kaňkovský on behalf of Mr Výborný, 7505 Mr Bartošek's amendment. Then we would have an amendment under number 7537, which is the amendment of Members Věra Kovářová and Mikuláš Ferjenčík. I will always say what we will vote on so you know, colleagues, what we will decide. And once we have voted on everything and decided on the bill, if this is adopted, we have one accompanying resolution. That's the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u66	Well, I don't have it in front of me. I hope you have it in front of you and you're familiar with it. So if there's no objection, I'll have this procedure approved. I started voting number 30. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 30, 165 Members and Members are registered, for 165, against no one. So there's an absolute consensus on the procedure, and I think we can proceed. First draft, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u67	So, first of all, we will vote on Mr Ferjenčík's amendment, which is a proposal for rejecting the amendment to the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u68	Yes, so a motion to dismiss. I'm opening the vote number 31. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 31, 165 Members and Members are enrolled, for 70, against 82. The motion was not accepted. So, please, we will continue with the other proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u69	We will now vote on Mr Hrnčíř's amendment under number 7494. This is essentially a cancellation of the deficit increase, which means leaving the state budget in the same balance minus 320 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u70	Thank you. So that's a suggestion. I'll ask the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 32 vote includes 164 Members and Members, for 70, against 79. The motion was not accepted. I'll make another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u71	The next amendment will again be from Mr Hrnčíř - under number 7503. And this is a transfer of 3 billion, let me put it simply, from inclusion to the education of children with specific educational requirements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u72	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 33. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33, 164 Members and Members are enrolled, for 19, against 105. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u73	The next proposal is the amendment by Mr Jakob, under number 7520. This is an adjustment to the state budget in such a way that, following the adoption of this amendment, changes would remain only on the revenue part of the budget and, on the contrary, would be reduced by 77 billion. This means that the deficit would be 422 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u74	Thank you very much. I hope that's clear to everyone. I have begun voting number 34 - Sorry, I declare the vote misguided. [[Please note that he forgot the Ministry's position.]] I'm sorry. I'll ask for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I am now re-initiating the vote. It's vote number 35. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote number 35 includes 164 Members and Members, for 72, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u75	The next proposal is the amendment under number 7518 by Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Here he was presented by Mr. Výborný. It concerns the increase in chapter 398 - General Treasury administration, namely the subsidy for social services, the sum of CZK 3 034 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u76	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 36. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 36 includes 164 Members and Members, for 71, against 8. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u77	The next proposal is the amendment by Mr Bartošek under number 7505 and it is an increase in the Ministry of Defence budget by CZK 5 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u78	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 37. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 37, 164 Members and Members are registered, for 76, against 46. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u79	The next proposal is the amendment under number 7537 by Mrs Kovářová and Mr Ferjenčík, and it is an increase in the contribution to the regions for fare losses at the expense of the fare discount. It's worth CZK 1,300 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u80	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 38. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 38 vote, 164 Members and Members are enrolled, for 52, against 84. The motion was denied. Have we dealt with all the amendments? [[Newsletter: Yes, that's right.]] Vice-President Filip reports with priority right before the vote on the bill as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, before the final vote, let me say, after dealing with the amendments, the opinion of the KSČM MEP on the amendment to the state budget. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia feels responsible for all citizens of our country. Because the state budget contains the fulfilment of the obligations that the House has made in the various laws that we had to accept in the context of legislative emergency and emergency state, in order to fulfil what is necessary for the security of people on the front line, for health workers, for social services workers, for members of the integrated rescue system, for soldiers and for others, to fulfil what we promised to those who maintain employment, to deal with what needs to be done for those who have lost their jobs and are dependent on the aid of the state and have been secured by the approved compensation that many are talking about, but are not willing to turn their words into actions, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will approve the change of the state budget. I believe that this is a step that means a responsible approach to how we deal with making promises to people. And it's not words, it's actions. And they are often much harder, much more problematic, but it is a responsible approach that citizens of the Czech Republic require of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u82	Thank you. Now President Bartošek has signed up with priority rights, if I have seen correctly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u83	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to free your way to pick up Mr. Vice-President Filip. Yes, it's not about words, it's about actions. I had a minor amendment here concerning an increase in the army's budget, and I followed up on the promise made by the Prime Minister. And here, fellow Members, allow me to appreciate the approach of social democracy. It is obvious that traditional democratic parties are aware of the cost of security and stability of the Czech Republic. They are also aware of what the pro-Western orientation of the Czech Republic means. And the one who betrays our security is this Prime Minister and the YES movement because you are being blackmailed by the Communists. That's reality. Because either what the Prime Minister says is true and it can be believed - and the Prime Minister said that early January money would return to the military. Or maybe that's not true, and the Prime Minister is a liar, because what he says about the cameras doesn't apply to what he promises doesn't apply to what he sounds publicly. You're a weak government, and the Prime Minister is weak because he's being blackmailed by communists!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u84	I'll ask for peace in the hall so I don't have to interrupt the meeting. Thank you. In that case, we could move on to the final vote, because all the proposals were actually voted on. So we're going to proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 600/2020 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, according to the House press 1159, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm gonna ask for peace. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote number 39. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 39 vote includes 164 Members and Members, for 93, against 70. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. So now we still have the accompanying resolution. I'll ask the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u85	We still have an accompanying resolution. I'll repeat it just in case, so we know what we're voting on. It is an accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to actively combat the tax evasion of multinational corporations, thereby increasing the tax revenue of the state budget. It also asks the Government to support the proposal of the so-called public country-by-country reporting at the Council of the European Union meeting, which will significantly increase the accounting transparency of large companies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u86	Thank you. So that was the motion for an accompanying resolution. Initiating vote number 40. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 40, 165 Members and Members are registered, for 66, against 15. I note that the motion for an accompanying resolution has not been adopted. We've dealt with all the suggestions. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] So I'm done discussing this point. Mr. President to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u87	Thank you for the floor. I would have to vote number 31 - I've been on the high road, I've been delayed, I've voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote, just on the tape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u88	Thank you. I'm gonna take over the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-004-002.u89	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We will continue according to the approved agenda, namely item number
