ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u1	9. The draft law amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 1091/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 1091/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in the mail. I welcome Senator Václav Láska among us and I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. As I have pointed out several times before, we have a vote until tomorrow morning. Of course, it can be changed by some procedural proposal. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u2	Thank you. Dear government, colleagues, very briefly. The amendment to the Alien Residence Act has passed the Chamber of Deputies. The main reason for its submission was Brexit and the obligation to adapt the European Union regulation on identity card. It is a technical amendment, but it will bring change into the life of foreigners and into the practice of the Ministry of the Interior. I consider its acceptance absolutely crucial. [[20.50 hours]] I note that the European Union regulation on which it is based will be applied in practice from 2 August and I cannot imagine that we would not have approved this law by 2 August. So I very much ask that we keep our attention and remain in the Chamber of Deputies until the final vote on this point. Regarding the Senate's proposals, given the debate here in the House, the main issue of this law was not the residence of foreigners, but health insurance. In view of the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, which has created, say, a monopoly on the VZP, there is therefore a debate in this regard. For the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to say that we are not a gesture of the issue, but after I have studied the proposals that came from the Senate, I would ask you for the Ministry of the Interior to vote in favour of the Senate version of this proposal. In the same sense, both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u3	Thank you. The diaper has calmed us down, for which I also thank, and now I ask Senator Václav Láska to take the floor and introduce us to the Senate's position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly introduce you to the Senate's legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you to remain calm in the hall so that we can continue our negotiations. Please transfer any other discussions to the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u6	I'm so sorry, but I'm spoiled by the Senate. I'm used to talking in silence, so it's hard to talk in such noise. But I'll try to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u7	I understand, Senator. I will once again call on my fellow Members to settle in their seats, or to transfer their discussions outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u8	Thank you. I will try to be really brief about this, because I know that you discussed this proposal carefully in the clubs, so you're all made up your mind. But to do my duty... In the Senate, this proposal was first discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security and the dominant topic was indeed the issue of health insurance. This committee adopted three amendments. One was a minor legislative one when the draft law contained a paragraph numbered by a number already contained by the law. The second was about the removal of the effective monopoly of VZP, a. s., with the fact that this part of the Act was also set up by a new register of health insurance for foreigners, which is to be administered by the Czech Insurance Office, and the required limit was introduced on health insurance benefits from 60,000 to 120,000 euros. The third amendment adopted concerns the inclusion of minors with long-term residence in the public health insurance system, but their participation in the scheme will be covered not by public funds, as in the case of state insured persons, but by legal representatives of children. Second, this proposal was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which adopted the recommendation to reject the bill. The third was discussed by our Committee on Health and it adopted only one amendment, namely the proposal already cited by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - the removal of the effective monopoly of VZP insurance and the replacement of a new register of health insurance. After discussing the committees, the press came to plenary, where, after the debate, which, once again largely concerned the issue of health insurance, all three amendments were adopted, as adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security. In the final vote to return this bill back to the House, 66 Senators present voted to return, 3 Senators abstained, none opposed the bill. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u9	Thank you. I would like to ask if the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, wishes to comment on the amendments tabled? I don't see that kind of interest. In that case, I am opening the debate and Mr Kopřiva is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u10	Good evening, fellow Members, fellow ministers. I will try to be brief, too. I had three letters ready. I'll only quote from one, but it's short, really short. His authors are certainly well-known to you, through Mr President, especially colleagues from the club YES. The introduction of the letter concerns what the government draft is about. And it follows: "The Senate version launches the intention to introduce a monopoly on the provision of private health insurance, which appeared in the House's proposal. The introduction of the monopoly would be contrary not only to the rules of the functioning of the EU, it is called illegal State aid, but would put the Czech Republic at risk of proceedings for infringement of European law, as well as to the risk of high financial sanctions and compensation for private insurance companies, which would thus lose the possibility of operating an activity authorised by the State." The removal of the monopoly is a clear proposal for a Senate version. The Czech Insurance Association, in cooperation with the Senate, also proposed solutions for situations where foreigners in the Czech Republic receive health care, who do not fulfil their obligation to be privately insured and for whose care this is due in the hospital debt. This proposal was consulted by the Czech Insurance Association with the Ministry of the Interior. The Czech insurer's office will keep a register of concluded insurance contracts to which both the employees of the Ministry of the Interior will have access in the proceedings for requests for extension of stay, the Police of the Czech Republic in the control of foreigners and health care providers, for example when verifying the insurance limits of their patients. The Senate proposal of the registry will clearly contribute to reducing the number of cases where foreigners are not insured in the Czech Republic. Last but not least, the Senate proposal introduces compulsory participation in the public health insurance scheme for minors of foreigners with a long-term residence permit. Parents of children, who are usually foreigners working in the Czech Republic, will pay insurance for their offspring in public health insurance. As a result, without negative effects on the public health insurance system, long-term children who are often important to the functioning of our economy will be protected by medical care even in the event of their insecurity in the private insurance system. Such a system will significantly reduce the emergence of health care claims due to unpaid health care. Madam Member, I thank you for your support for the Senate version of the bill. Signed are certain Alena Schillerová, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, Jan Hamáček, whom you have already heard, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Vladimír Dlouhý, President of the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic, and Jan Matoušek, Executive Director of the Czech Insurance Association. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I would like, through Mr President, to address, in particular, colleagues from the club YES and I would like to ask them, exceptionally, to listen to three ministers of their own government and to the association of insurance companies who are travelling for the Senate version. The same argument is led by Mr. Ombudsman Dr. Stanislav Křeček. I just want to remind myself that the children of foreigners are really children of foreigners who are staying here long-term or permanent, so they are definitely not tourists, and since parents will pay insurance for the public health system, the change is neutral to the state budget. Indeed, no one will lose anything, on the contrary, hospitals will be able to recover health - care debts more easily. Technically, it is still appropriate to add that if parents end their stay, they will end up with children, or even in such a case they can't take care of themselves. A long-term stay can take up to 12 months, more like 15 months of parents' stay, so it again rules out the health tourism that has been mentioned here many times in the third reading as a negative impact - so please, nicely, it is not true. The legislation affects around 6 000 to 8 000 children of foreigners and the total number of insured foreigners in commercial health insurance is 60,000 to 80,000. It's just for comparison. I would still like to disprove the two untruths that were said here at the third reading, namely from my colleague Janulík of the club YES, that the Czech National Bank has no problem with the proposal - in fact, the position of the Czech National Bank on the amendment introducing a monopoly was that the proposal is contrary to the principle of a single European authorisation for insurance companies, and therefore contrary to European legislation, constitutes an unequal position for insurance companies in the field of competition. [[21.00 hours]] And I would also like to respond to my colleague Kasal, also from the ANO Club, who said that all foreigners who do not have a permanent and long-term stay must be outside the health insurance system and that we cannot unsystemically say that we will insure their children if they are here for two months. The fact is that outside public health insurance, foreigners with a long-term stay are also built if they do not work for the Czech employer. Typically, they are businessmen and their children, children of foreigners with long-term stay and seniors or persons who came here to merge with their family. Aliens with permanent residence have already had access to the public system. This will be limited. I could still quote similar arguments here from Mr. Ombudsman's letter, as well as from the letter from the Czech Insurance Association, however, I was only trying to disprove the untruths that were raised here at third reading. And I would really like to call on my colleagues to take the view not only of those appointed, but, as I have already mentioned, three ministers of this government. I think that would perhaps be a more systemic solution than an amendment, I think two Members. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u11	Thank you. Mr Běhounek cancels his apology. Here I have a written letter from Mr Jurečka, who applied from the post. He is no longer interested, so Mr. Janulík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u12	Briefly. Thank you for the floor. Well, we've heard a lot, it's basically coming back as a boomerang - we've approved something here, now it's coming back as a boomerang. It's basically a pirate proposal. It's just about the so much misconception that's supposed to be true, about the monopolization. It's nonsense, because of course it applies... who knows the genesis of the amendment, so he knows that there was a first proposal in the system that was countervailable in this way. We then met after the discussion with the Authority's management of competition protection, and another amendment was tabled under the authority of the Office for the Protection of Competition, which had already been made... after the complaints of the Office for the Protection of Competition we redesigned it so that it did not give any reason for monopolisation. So this remark, this objection from you is quite odd and obviously applies because you don't know the map, you probably didn't look at it well, so it refers to the first one that was withdrawn from the system, but it was still operated and worked with by officials at various ministries. So there's confusion here, so I have the UOHS' statement on the amendment that it's not conflicting. So I don't know what else to say about who's more competitive here than the competition authority itself. I do not theorize as a fellow youth here, through Mr President, I, as I told you at third reading, just get it out of practice, deal with it every day. I can show you here three insurance contracts concluded with commercial insurance companies of my patients from third countries, and I know it really from day-to-day practice, how these things work, or it doesn't work, that it's a clean money grinder that robs us of doctors, health professionals and, of course, not least, those insured people who pay in good faith for something they don't get at all. So here I can just show you how they recruit. Here's a Russian-printed recruitment flyer saying that for CZK 3,000 a year, the insured person will be insured. To give you an idea: the average cost per insured person is CZK 28,000. So for those 3,000 that somebody else takes a commission of about 80%, the person is insured to be insured for the whole year. And they're gonna use the PVZP logo shamelessly here. Those are facts, that's not a theory. So I only speak from practice. And since we've already approved our House version here once, I'm asking you to approve it for the second time. I understand the Pirate's proposal as the opening of the door of migration, because if every immigrant who gives birth here gets all the care of her baby from my insurance, then, of course, it creates health tourism that they'll come to us, these people will be pulling back to us and it's an open door. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u13	Thank you. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček is still reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u14	Thank you. I don't want to delay. I respect my colleague, Janulík, as an expert in health care and a top doctor, but please do not address the issues of migration and immigration and of the Ministry of the Interior's policy in this matter. I want to assure everyone that if the Senate version passes, there is no risk of health tourism for one simple reason that the law provides for insurance for the children of foreigners who have permanent residence here. The Home Office certainly doesn't give away permanent stays. The process is very complex, there are a number of insurance policies. It's certainly not about any stranger crossing the border getting custody here under this law. Again, it's a question of permanent residents. If we ask how many children it is, it is about 12,000 children, which is relatively small for the number of insured persons who are covered by the insurance policy. And again, I'm saying that the law is counting on their legal representatives to pay for this amount. So I just want to clearly reject the claim that the Senate version means some kind of tourism or opening the door to migrants. It's nonsense, and the Home Office won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u15	Thank you. Mr Kopřiva with a factual remark, then Mr Třešňák. Real notes. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u16	Thank you. I still don't like the mathematics of my colleague, Mr Janulík, through Mr President. If a stranger wanted to come here to give birth, it would take nine months for a person to get pregnant, as far as I know, but you can't get a long stay in this long. And as I have already quoted here, or even Mr. Ombudsman has mentioned, this does not really concern tourist visas. This concerns people for this purpose, children of foreigners who normally teach taxes here or perhaps teach at the university, but of course also workers at the line, but they are people who live here for years, at least with that stay for at least a year, but rather longer. A permanent stay is, if I am not mistaken, after five years of stay in the Czech Republic. And, of course, I thank Minister Hamáček for mentioning that these stays are not really on the table. There's a check that this guy has a clean rap sheet, that tax here and so on. So the hiking, it really doesn't add up. Likewise, the merger of children, as I mentioned, only more or less after 15 months, which does not correspond entirely to the time of pregnancy. So I'd ask my colleague to explain this to you, or to admit that he's just wrong, that this isn't about medical tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u17	Thank you. Mr Třešňák is registered with a factual remark, and I would ask, if necessary, for more peace in the hall so that we can at least hear what the speakers are saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u18	Have a good night. I would like to oppose the demagogy of my colleague, Mr Janulík, through Mr President, who said something about migrants and so on. I think, and without having a long discussion, that both my previous speaker František Kopřiva and the Minister explained it enough. The adjustment does not prejudice any tourism, but the fact that the child born here enters the public health system and assumes that the legal representative will pay for it. This means, instead of a commercial insurance product, an adequate amount of public health insurance will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u19	Thank you. This was the last application in the debate, so if no one else is reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate. We will take the vote. Is there any final words I should ask? I don't see anyone. There's a checkout request. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. Please log in with your cards. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws according to the House press 1091/5, as approved by the Senate according to the House press 1091/6.' [[21.10 hours]] For those who have arrived only now, I repeat that we are voting on the approval of the Senate version. Initiating vote number 153. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 153, 158 Members and Members of Parliament, for 71, against 17. The motion was not accepted, so we will continue. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Section 97 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed in order to adopt this resolution. President with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u20	I confess that I do not understand the vote of the members of the government coalition when three members of the government, the Vice Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, write to all Members and Members, appeal to us how much better the Senate's return is than the original House press, and now you will sink the Senate's return here despite your government officials. I really don't understand. Then don't make a fool out of your government members. Say it in advance, we're not going to vote for it, don't write us any letters, 'cause really then, Mrs. Vice Prime Minister Schillerová, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček and Minister Vojtěch look a trošku bit like a jerk now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u21	After all, I would like to call to order a little, and we will now vote on the original House version. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 326/99 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which he was referred to the Senate, according to the House press 1091/5." I am opening the vote, so we are voting on the approval of the House version. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 154, 160 Members and Members are registered, for 108, against 42. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. So we passed the law in the original House version. President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u22	For me, colleagues, a brief conclusion. I thought the Communist Party would be the biggest surprise of the day, but I was wrong. The biggest surprise for me today is the YES movement. Absolutely unpredictable. You lie as much as the communists! [[In an elevated voice.]] The Minister of Finance sends a letter and recommends a vote. My own club is voting against her. And all you did was make a robbery in broad daylight! You approved the VZP monopoly! This is your business! This is your dirty business! You're going to the election with this! You're just like the communists, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u23	Mr President, I am closing paragraph 9 and, in accordance with all the resolutions approved, we will continue if someone does not stop me. [[Rush in the hall. Voices from the diaper.]] I need someone to stop me in some more official way than to wave at me. President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u24	I have two things. First. Those of my colleagues in the ANO movement who did not vote for it, as I was warned, so I apologize to them to be fair. And the other thing. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, it was agreed that this item would end today. I'd like to ask you that, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-005-009.u25	Yes, thank you. That's some kind of proposal I can work with. So if no one has anything against it, we will respect the agreement of the chairmen of the club and also, given the situation in the hall, we will interrupt the negotiations today and continue tomorrow, which means Wednesday, where points 340 and 339 are included at the beginning of the third reading block, i.e. the energy law. [[Rush in the hall, Members are gradually leaving the Chamber.]] Furthermore 342, which is the law on railways, 347, infrastructure, and 341, social-legal protection of children. Then we would proceed with any other points from the third reading block. Have a nice trip home and see you tomorrow.
