ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u1	51. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 1116/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The first reading is designed in accordance with § 19 para. 2. I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur Jana Pastuchová for having already taken up positions at the rapporteur's table, and again I would like to point out that the Government is proposing that we discuss this proposal in a short session, and I note that I do not have to block from two clubs or from 40 Members until now, so we will proceed with the fact that I will now ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová for an opening word. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, we have submitted to you a Government proposal to valorise the amounts of child allowances and also to extend the family circle with entitlement to encore. Specifically, after a long 12 years of valorisation of the amounts by 26 per cent and, as regards the extension of the radius, to 3.4 times the life minimum. If I am to translate this into a specific income situation for families with children, for example, today, and it seems very important to me, for example, today, a single child with a five-year-old child will reach an encore if the income is lower - less than CZK 14,900. A single girl with a five-year-old! We suggest that the limit should be increased to 18,700 pure. Two adults with a five-year-old child today have a family, which means two adults, a five-year-old child, entitled to an encore if they have an income of up to CZK 23,500, and according to our proposal it would be 29,600. I think we agree that these amounts are generally very low and demotivative for working families with children. Really very low and demotivating for working families with children. There are three main reasons why this bill needs to be adapted, and I would like to emphasise this - from 1 April this year. This can only be achieved if you agree with the proposal at first reading. The first reason is pandemic. Coronacrising has fallen most on families with children, which we agree on. We've been talking about this for ten months - ten months, and they're really families with children, working families with children who lost their jobs because of the pandemic or lost their income, because they have to stay in the infirmary for example. This is also - in fact, the increase and valorisation of the addition to a child - one of the basic recommendations of the National Economic Council of the Government, which recommends us to minimise the effects of the coronation and increase the encore on a child in the long term. This is based on the recommendations of experts, especially economists, and I recall that this was one of the first things Germany did in response to the coronation or coronation. In addition to the fastest and direct financial support for low-income families, this is also a very effective support for the economy. I guess I don't have to mention that with low-income families, it's actually the best way to get this money into circulation, because they're going back into consumption immediately. Anyone with little children knows what the situation is, what the kids cost, even when the schools are closed, I think it's all the more necessary. I also remind you that when I proposed sloppy ones in August, that means a one-off allowance for seniors, or not only old-age pensioners, but also disabled pensioners or survivors, everyone argued that we had to support families with children. That's what we're doing right now, and it's the best opportunity to show that we're serious about supporting the most vulnerable. The second reason we approach this amendment to the law is that over the last ten years, as wages have grown, 300,000 children have fallen out of the child allowance, especially working families with children. This means that children whose parents work, even though they have low income, even though they are poor, have unfortunately fallen out of child support in the last ten years, and even if they try, they do everything right, so they can't reach the support of the state. Once again, 300,000 children, and basically this effect has caused the addition to the child to become a poor dose. I think that this is extremely unfair and that families with children who - once again I emphasize - do everything right, work, take care of their loved ones, so they can't reach the child supplement. This means in practice that only one child in 10 in the Czech Republic will reach the encore at this time, which was previously a very stable support for families with children. It is very little, and we are actually getting back to 2014 with this measure when we want to achieve 20 percent of all children for child allowance, that is, every fifth child in the Czech Republic, because - once again - it is the most effective every month, it is really important to mention the support of families with children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, I'm going to ask the House for peace again. Dear colleagues, the word has been given to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. If you're discussing anything other than press 1116, please be in the foyer. Just a moment longer, if you'd like to thank your colleagues. Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The third reason for the amendment of this law is the abolition of the supergross wage, and that is the main reason besides the crisis, and the fact that the addition to the child has become a poor benefit, why I seek to make the amendment effective since 1 April, because the abolition of the supergross wage without a parallel increase in the addition coefficient has no positive income effect on part of working families with children. Some working families with children will even reduce their overall income. Unless we agree to extend the family circle to child additions to 1. 4., on 1 April, so every tenth family that tries and works, which means that at least one parent has income from dependent activity, loses an encore on a child. A total of 12,000 children will be involved. [[11.00 hours]] If the efficiency shifts to 1. 7. 2021, which would be in line with the application of Section 90, which I propose here, 12,000 children will be gone - and they are children working parents with children - out of the child allowance for the April to June period. I think it would be fatal at a time when we are facing an unprecedented pandemic and a coronation crisis. If the adjustment is approved, they will not be able to apply for child allowance until summer. If the coefficient is not increased, they shall be permanently withdrawn from the claim. At the current average rate of child allowance, which is CZK 790 per child per month, and the average number of children in families with child allowance, which is 1.98, this on average will mean a loss of CZK 1,564 per child allowance. I suppose we can imagine - and I quote once again the amounts to which families with children are entitled to an encore - that this is a fatal loss of income. I repeat once again, now a single child with a five-year-old is entitled to a child allowance if her income does not exceed CZK 14,900. According to our proposal, it'll be 18,700. For two adults with a five-year-old child, a family with an income of up to 23,500 is now entitled, according to our proposal it would be CZK 29,600. Thus, in order to ensure the positive effects of the abolition of the supergross wage on working low-income families - and please repeat this once again - there is an unconditional need for an adjustment with effect from 1 April, because income is tested for the period January to March, but already with an increased coefficient to 3.4 times the family's living minimum. I would repeat once again whether this was really intended and whether we really want to cause this when the removal of the supergross wage has passed and the proposed Section 90 extends the coefficient if we really want to support 12,000 children who are from working families if we want to damage them financially in this way. I think it's a huge injustice where people work hard, try hard at this very difficult time, yet they are poor and can't get help from the state. We all know the consequences of such phenomena. People are frustrated, they have no confidence in the state and they reject the functioning of the welfare state at all. So if we're serious about supporting working families with children, now's the time to prove it. I think that we can postpone the debates on systemic changes to child additions for an unexpected period of time after the pandemic, and now, as recommended by the government of NERV, is an opportunity to support the most vulnerable as quickly as possible. As regards the cost of the state budget, this proposal will cost the Treasury an additional CZK 3.6 billion annually. If I compare it with what cost us a discount on diesel, for example, those impacts were CZK 5 billion. For the additional CZK 3.6 billion, we will support a total of half a million children and help the most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal, which - once again I will stress this - will provide support for a total of half a million children. Since 2008, the child allowance has not been appreciated, which is why we approach it at this critical time, and in total, 250,000 other children and their families will improve financially compared to the current state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u5	Thank you for the introductory words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, for a news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Minister has expressed his views on the House press. As rapporteur, I will not repeat what the Minister has said, and I will join this House press in a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u7	I thank the rapporteur and record the application for the debate. Now, before the debate with priority rights, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u8	Thank you for the floor. Just like almost every time he's Madam Secretary, he's the best geyser, the best, the best. A gejzír of strong words, but then he forgets the essentials, and that's the content of the bill. If the Minister had remembered when she was defending the bill of cursarbeit in a legislative emergency, she chose the same strong words, the same strong appeal, and we know the result. After many months to this day, we have not yet passed the law. So first, formally on behalf of the three MPs - ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 - I veto the discussion of this draft law pursuant to § 90. The reason is simple. The regime chosen by the Minister does not allow amendments to be tabled. For our coalition, I want to say - if the Minister would listen to me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u9	Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u10	I've been waiting for Madam Secretary to listen to me when I'm talking to her. We don't have a problem with valorization, which means they haven't been valorized since 2008. It is a bit strange that the Minister remembered after seven years of government of social democracy. As an argument of the '90s, we have a pandemic - it's been ten months. It's also not a very short time to be in the '90s. But most importantly, when she talked about the income of working families, I totally agree with her. Do you still remember the strong opposition of the Social Democrats to tax cuts for those who work? Because we've reduced those taxes, and now in the next ten days, those who work will feel it for the first time on their paychecks. I didn't hear it here - we argued that we would let the families have more money in this difficult time. But what did the Social Democrats say, how did they vote? And figure out what's more advantageous. Whether what the Madam Secretary suggests or what the House has approved for the families where the parents work. Of course there is a better tax reduction. So you, Madam Secretary, could convince your colleagues that they could vote in the House and do something positive for those working families, vote with us for tax cuts, but you were against that. Because you couldn't come up with more and more grant titles. First I'll take it, then I'll be back in time and I still look like the one doing good. That's your attitude. It's a legitimate left-wing approach, but I just don't agree with it. I don't want it to feel like we're in favour of valorization, we're against a wide range of beneficiaries. And since we are not able to read specific amendments in the 90th regime, the Minister has actually given us nothing but the veto. You're late, Madam Secretary. Today is January 27th, we are launching a legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies and you are saying in a dramatic voice that this must apply from 1 April. But you made it happen that it was so late. If the law had come in September or October - and we had already had six months of pandemic - he was already in the Senate today or he would have been approved. Maybe not in the version you support, but I'm sure the valorization would have been approved. So far, I haven't noticed any political club protesting against valorisation by 26 percent. That's the political consensus. There is no political consensus on the second main point. I'm saying you wasted that chance the moment we voted on tax cuts, and now you're coming up with a little partial measure, and you're dramatically telling us that it's the right thing for families. Lower taxes, if we talk about those who work, will help those families much more than what you propose. And then just so I don't argue about the detail. But the secretary says that if someone is working - if I remember correctly - he's telling him to be entitled to child allowance, he can't exceed 14 900, you said, Madam Secretary. Do I remember that well, a few minutes ago? Two adults and one child. What's the minimum wage since January 1st, Madam Secretary? Clean. [[They're arguing.]] No, you didn't say that, but that's okay. However, I insist that the tax reduction was a much better step. We have shown many specific cases when income is 20,000, 25,000, when it is the median of about 30,000, that the average wage is about 35,000, it is much better. So don't be mad at me, you're late. If you leave the House and the Senate for such a serious change for two months and four days, whose fault is that? What were you doing in September, what were you doing in October, what were you doing in November? [[11.10 hours]] If the proposal was on time, he could have discussed it and we could have accepted some amendments. You wanted to take that chance from us, we're giving all of us a chance to think about it, to prepare some meaningful amendments together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u11	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Since the veto has fallen, this time three members of parliament or 50 Members, we will not continue in accordance with § 90 para. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 7, that means we'll continue with all three readings. I am opening the debate and, as the rapporteur has announced, she has declared herself with priority right to the debate, so I will give her the floor, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Not as rapporteur this time, but as speaking in the debate. My colleague Valachová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Although I am a member of the government coalition, I am glad for the veto, because I think that this amendment on state social support should have a chance for us to discuss it calmly and make all the arguments for and against the Committee on Social Policy. As the Minister said, this amendment proposes a 26 per cent valorisation. As the President said, through you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, I think none of us have any problems with this. The problem here is the increase in the coefficient, which is actually 2.7 times the minimum of life, and the proposal that came to us, this multiple increases to 3.4 times the minimum of life. Like I said, we don't have a problem with valorization. I would like to say that it is not true that the amounts of child allowances have not been increased since 2008. In 2018, there was an increase in child allowance for economically active parents by CZK 300. The statistics show that around 95 percent of the beneficiaries are entitled to an increased levy due to their economic activity and therefore only 5% of the beneficiaries are the original amount since 2008. I also know that with an increase in the coefficient multiplying the minimum of life, 3.4 times, the Ministry of Finance disagrees, in conjunction with the expected enlargement of beneficiaries in the context of the current crisis, when - or perhaps if we approve it - there would be an enormous increase in the number of beneficiaries, mainly because the so-called supergross wage has been abolished and the introduction of a rate of 15% of the financial wage, i.e. the money will remain in the parents' wallets. And another thing was that there was an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer, which was 27,840, to 30,840 in 2022. As I say, I agree, of course, with an increase of 26%, but I am pleased to have an increase in the coefficient from 2.7 to 3.4 now proposed, and we will be able to discuss everything on our Committee on Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u13	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, for her performance. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová in the debate, Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, fellow Members, Dear Government, allow me to comment on the bill presented. I will respond, by your means, Mr President, in particular to the words that have been spoken here by Mr Stanjura. And I'm gonna be positive, so I'm gonna say what's really in that law and what's following it. It is followed by a simple thing: direct support - helping families with children, direct support - helping children, direct assistance to children. What is the connection with how much your parents earn through you, Mr President, and if they remain more or less in their wallets after tax cuts, I do not know what the previous speaker meant to say, because of course all employees and employees will use this opportunity, regardless of what salary, salary, or how many children they have, how large their family, what is associated with all of this particularly during this difficult time. I would just like to point out that when this subject was opened, unfortunately, my prophecy is already being fulfilled today. I am not happy that a number of employees will see nothing extra in their wallets, because at the same time their wages will be reduced, or they will even be dependent on the fact that although they have been promised an addition, so that they are to satisfy themselves from this tax reduction, and it will have a fatal impact on cohesion and even on the standard of living here in the Czech Republic. But back to the law. As we discuss it, it is direct aid to children. And the proposal, as it was submitted, returns to how direct aid to children and families, especially the middle class, has long looked like in the Czech Republic. This direct support to children broke down at a time when the Civil Democratic Party and TOP 09 ruled, so no wonder my colleagues don't like it. However, it is true that since that time, since the last economic crisis, we have not had direct support for children by the state regardless of their parents' wallets in terms of pro-family pro-population policy. I am surprised that we do not have the same opinion in this sense anymore, and we do not speak as the House with one voice, because I thought that direct support for children, direct support for the family, direct national policy, especially at a time of economic crisis, is something that we agree on. And that's what this bill is about. That is why I would like to call on you, colleagues, to invite you, if this law is not voted at first reading, because unfortunately some Members' clubs have brought him in, so that children will not have the quick and direct assistance that we wanted you, at least as Members, to allow the time limits between readings to be reduced so that the direct assistance to children, regardless of what I have mentioned, is to keep the children away from the richness of the parents' wallet, so that it really works. I answer the second question, what some previous speakers have denied, and that is that there is some disagreement with not only valorizing, here I see that there is agreement across the political spectrum, and for that I thank you, but to extend the circle of children who will be able to obtain this direct aid. I am here to advise that I will try to support these colleagues and colleagues in the debates, both in the committees and in the plenary, so that direct assistance to children is as broad a circle as possible, and that we return to the time before the first economic crisis, when there was direct assistance to families with children, direct assistance to children, and when the richness, the fatness of the parents' wallet or the viewing of children and their rights through parents were not and we held that we were concerned with the rights of children and their direct support, their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u15	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, my colleague Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my opinion on behalf of the KSČM. I must say that my previous speakers helped me a little, across the political spectrum, because it is more or less a consensus for us that valorisation of the 26 percent mentioned is appropriate, because it has not really increased in the long term. [[11.20 hours]] Maybe it's really up to discussion, why the Ministry of Labour, eventually the government, comes up with this now, but since we've been debating between our experts and at the club, it's the very expansion of applicants, or who it would apply to, from a multiple of 2.7 living minimums to 3.4. I have to say, as strange as it may seem, we see the whole situation, and although the change is precisely the abolition of a super-gross wage, we have to say openly that the change that today... or which is already valid and which we discussed, I think, a year back or a year and a half, when we discussed that the child allowance will be higher for working parents and increases for others will not happen, however, as I spoke with representatives of the employment offices, so frankly I say that it concerns 99 percent of the clients at the employment offices, even with the condition that it will be for working parents, because there are, of course, the other conditions and the criteria that are mostly met by clients at the employment offices. That means, I think the effect that the Secretary of State promised here is actually a little bit - or the 100% effect that we want it for the workers - is not exactly what we imagined. And that is why we really perceive for us, and rather we think that it would be more effective to increase the tax discount. As we may have spoken, we will use the veto in Section 90 in this discussion and we would also submit an amendment to this proposal, because, yes, the Minister has said various examples here, but if we want to help those low-income but working families, I think it is the best way to discount the tax, because that is what we are talking about. Maybe I wouldn't be afraid - and it's my personal wish, although I don't know if it would work one day, I don't think there's much time now if we could make an exception to a day off for kids who play sports. This means that parents can deduct some amount, we can start with three, five thousand, and I think that would be a great relief and great help for those families. I know we're having a covide season, and now there's really nothing going on, and on the other hand, we all believe it's going to end soon, and sport is really important to the kids. This I think would really be one of the great help, because sports, about any form, are really very expensive. I kind of feel like we're forgetting the so-called middle class, that we actually have parents here who need it, but we're having fun and we're seeing the situation at birth. For us: why we make exceptions, why they are so strictly given the multiples again, because often families in childbirth are divided from the claim by two hundred or a thousand. They take it very unfairly, and for us, I think that at least for the first child, it should either be without boundaries or it should be rapidly widespread. In the long term, this is seen as a great injustice in society, and this part that we are discussing today, I have to say, is just a crumb that we are actually seeing now or we are going to continue to deal with. And maybe I'll give you an example, lunches for school. Why do I say that? Because, to a large extent, clients who solve income problems are dependent on helping state social support or material emergency, they are now able to finance their children's lunches in schools from their child allowance. I think that maybe one percent of these people are taking this step, and to a greater extent aid is simply not done, because these people do not want it. I don't think I'm gonna talk about the reasons right now, but here we are -I'm happy about it - two school lunch funding projects, and I have to say that what works at the Ministry of Education and goes through WOMEN FOR WOMEN, so I'm happy to have them because it works. And it works with people's work, because these people have to meet different criteria, and we learn to a large extent that if people get something so-called free, they just don't appreciate it, they don't go to lunches, they don't check out etc. What worked at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, don't be mad at me, it was more of a shame, and when we talked to the elementary school directors, like in Most, they were afraid to go to projects that they were doing right through the Ministry of Education WOMEN FOR WOMEN, and I have to say that today, when it was explained to them and co-operation started, those directors are very happy to be able to use this project. So it was just a supplement that everything a child's addition could do and how we feel about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u17	I thank Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and I will now ask my colleague Juchelka to endure because I have two decisions here, first of all, the Minister's priority right, but she will also wait because her party colleague Kateřina Valachová has made a point of fact. So now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová's comment, which I am measuring time, and then the Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, a real point of fact. By your means, Mr President, I want to thank Hanka Aulická for liking free children's lunches, how they work under the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I put it in place, so I am glad that she commended it this way, and I can assure you that we are in agreement with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in the sense of how the free school lunch system should look for the future. And I would also like to point out that we, as Members here a few months ago, approved a change in the school law, which will allow the system, i.e. without already European money, for the future, and I would also like to add, by your means, Mr President, to Mrs Aulická, that several negotiations have taken place, and I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that she supports free lunches in schools, also strives for a system solution for the future, and that the MPSV and MSMT programmes, as they shake hands and function as a puzzle for the protection of children, will continue in the future and continue within the single system. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u19	I thank Jana Maláčová for keeping time on the point of fact, now with the priority right of Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová, and a colleague Aleš Juchelka is still prepared. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I have two notes, too. Lunches for schools, this is the situation described by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who was true two years ago. A few weeks after I joined the position of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I fundamentally changed the whole system and the result was that all regions were involved in the lunch project at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - all regions, it was the fundamental difference that the lunch project for schools is functional, very popular and helps where it has, it means children who did not receive hot food, and I think it works very well and will work in the future. One more comment: child allowance versus tax credit. I can imagine, and we even considered a few weeks and months ago that we would have gone by way of tax discounts, but the major disadvantage for tax reductions is - you know what, lady: for working families with children, if you have low income, even if the discount on a child - for tax discounts - goes into the bonus, that is true, but the bill is once a year. This means that families with children don't get money every month as an addition to a child, but they would get it this year in a year and a half, which would probably not fulfill the mission of helping families who need it on a monthly basis in a crisis. That's why we went along the way of child support. That doesn't mean we wouldn't count on it, but as a crisis measure, I don't think it's worth actually changing the discount on a child if we want to help working families with low incomes because they would actually get the money in May 2022. [[11.30 hours]] That may be, and I very much hope it will be, after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u21	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you so much for the words of the previous speakers. I also thank the Minister for this bill. Anyway, I would like her attention to focus a little on the issues of multiple families, which I think are somewhat discriminated against by this law, and I will explain this: because they have more children, even in college. The child allowance is a benefit of state social support for the nutrition and support of the child and, in fact, even after valorizing the current child allowance, it will not reach even half the minimum of the child's life. This is a dose that is supportive and especially at this time, when distance learning, when we experience that children are at home with COVID-19, is a dose that is an undisputable important income for these families. Multiple families are getting into trouble with counting family income. Family income includes not only income from employment, but also parental contribution. In addition, the dose does not distinguish between the parent's and the child's intake. The benefit also includes child support paid, not only for a child who receives this maintenance but also for all other children who are together. This also creates conflicting and friction areas for parents who are divorced. The income is included in the income, for example, from the child's brigades as well as from the practice held in schools. For a multi-family, it is more likely that there are children with different ages, such as at multiple levels of education, and the increased coefficient makes it possible to prevent situations that the family is not entitled to child allowance because it has, for example, several children in high school and high school who are trying to improve their life situation by various brigades and thus raising the income of the common household. The law thus assumes that the family manages its entire income of all its members, i.e. the income of children from brigades and practices. Thus, if a student tries to improve or change his/her life situation as best as possible, the financial situation by providing his/her financial resources to enable, for example, his/her study and improvement of his/her standard of living and, at the same time, the level of his/her family with multiple siblings can, paradoxically, deprive his/her other siblings of the addition to the child and actually make their situation worse. Of course, I want the addition to the child and to the family with more children to stop being a poor dose, as the ministry states in the explanatory memorandum. And for me, it is if you focus on it, and maybe in that spirit I will also prepare an amendment on the settlement of the conditions between families and the promotion of common solidarity, that it is the basis of every social system. I think this will help to improve the situation of these families not only for this difficult time, but also in the following period, and thus strengthen a very much pro-family policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u23	I thank Mr Juchelek. Now, with a factual remark from Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna is ready. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I dare, by your means, to respond to the Minister. I must say that, of course, he is right, and we perceive the so-called problem of tax reductions, because it really is once a year. In any case, we see no problem at all in doing this - and that is exactly what it needs to be a proposal related to the amendment to legislative change - to do so as well as a discount on the taxpayer. That means it would be there a month. Of course, it's some kind of agreement, some kind of communication with the Treasury, but for us, we think it's a way that shouldn't be a major problem, and it would go right behind the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Jaroslav Foldyna will now speak in the debate. The last one to be logged in to the debate so far. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to ask more or less when we're talking about support for workers and that it wouldn't be a so-called negative tax: we were talking about businessmen, that the businessman at the end of the year is handing in his tax returns. However, the support and increase of workers, it means it can be calculated if they have a low income, it can be calculated every month. I moved into a city apartment downtown 20 years ago, and after 20 years, I live in such an excluded locality in the city center. There are, like, 20 percent of people living around me who are addicted to doses. And there's so many kids in there that we think some kind of birthing boom started as Husák. Unfortunately, these people don't have financial literacy. They add up and add up simple numbers, nothing adds up to the fact that the child's upbringing has other financial requirements. So if we don't define it this way that we're gonna support working families and people with children who are in working families and we're not gonna create a distinction between those who don't work around me, but certainly around others, there's gonna be a lot of kids that nobody cares about. And believe me, I see it in front of the house every day. I don't go on a field trip, I go home. I live with them. They're getting bigger every day, running there, and nobody cares about them. They're counting the doses. So the distinction between a working person - and I wish every Čech had three children; I am convinced that what Mr Orbán says and promotes the progression of birth rate is very correct. I will support this law, too, because it is right. I would just appeal to it, and I know it's harder and more complicated: Let's not encourage those who don't go to work and have their children hostage to receive income from the state! It creates tension in society! People are starting to dislike them. And that's not racism, not at all! That's harassment of society by the rude ones. We've got meth dealers, they've got cars, they've got stores, that's where it goes. And all of this has to do with this here. So I'm going to vote in favour of this law. I'm glad it's here that we're raising money. Because that post-cove time will bring great suffering to a lot of people. It's gonna be desperation. But please, let's support those who want to work, not those who want to live out of their children. Just a note. And I'll really support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u27	I thank Mr Jaroslav Foldyn. Now in the debate, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. I have no other application for a debate. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u28	Thank you. I would like to repeat this - thank you to Mr Foldyn -. The extension of the coefficient to 3.4 is that the addition to the child will help the workers. Because it doesn't particularly help workers today, because the amounts are so low that working families with children can't fit in. And I agree that it's causing a lot of tension in society. Because these people, even though they're poor, even though they're doing everything right, they can't reach the support of the state. And imagine that you're working, you have a minimum wage, but the state will say to you, "You're rich because you're working, and you can't reach an allowance for a child - even if you're working with a minimum wage. It's just a horrible absurdity, awful absurdity, and we're trying to change that by 3.4 so that working families with children who are poor can reach the child's encore. They write me hundreds, hundreds, hundreds of people who say, "Why isn't there an encore for everyone? Why isn't it flat? And I agree with that. But it would be huge, we're talking about tens of billions. At this point, we just can't afford it. So when this discussion is on the table, I say honestly, we're comparing it to 2014 and we can support more and more families with gradual steps. I think that if every government did as much for the children as ours, and I can repeat: we increased our parents to 300,000 after 12 years, we are introducing a shared job on January 1, that is to support part-time jobs. We have state support for day care in the negotiations. We have put in place replacement maintenance so that, in particular, single mothers receive their court-martial alimony. [[11.40 hours]] Now we're talking about child support for working families with children. In the coronation, we introduced an infirmary, very high standard, so that parents wouldn't have to worry if they had to stay home with young children. This means: we help families with children, no government has done as much for families with children as this. It is a priority, and I repeat once again that people who do everything right are basically carriers of the fundamental values of our society, working and raising their children, caring for their loved ones, caring for their family, should be supported. And I think the debate, whether 14 900 or 18 600, I'm sorry, I don't know if 18 600 is right, I think it's undignified. In my opinion, we must aim to make an encore for a child, as well as a birthing allowance, for all families to make it a general support for families. However, for budgetary reasons we are going to help 250,000 children, it is better than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u29	Thank you. Last application - Mrs Kateřina Valachová in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u30	Mr President, colleagues, Madam Minister, I, in view of the fact that this bill is extremely urgent for the assistance of children, but, at the same time, MEPs have applied the veto, so I would like to ask the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club to vote on a few possibilities of shortening the time limits. I'm making this proposal to shorten by seven, if it didn't pass, to twenty, and if it didn't pass, to thirty days. It's three possibilities of shortening. I believe that one of them will pass, and I think we all want to find agreement on direct aid to children not only in this difficult time, but especially in this difficult time as soon as possible. So once again, seven, twenty and thirty days, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-008-051.u31	I understand that, Madame, but since this is a government proposal, I need the Government's position, if they agree to a reduction of less than 30 days, and this must be declared here, otherwise I could not vote on it. So, Madam Secretary, I don't know if you can express this for the government, because I don't have a document like that here. Since it was in Section 90, I can assume that this is a voteable proposal, but I do not have a positive opinion here. So if no one objects to a vote of seven, twenty and thirty, then I can put the vote ascending, which means the shortest, then twenty and then thirty, because thirty is voteable in any case under the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm taking the fall now. As the Government has put forward a draft law under scheme 90, 2, I take it that there is a voteable proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion between first and second reading to 7 days. Does anyone object to the President's procedure? It's not like that. We can therefore vote on this proposal, in the vote number two hundred and one, which I will begin, but in a moment, I will sign you off first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I have called on several times for discussions on other topics to take place in the foyer, so I will wait until there are enough entries and the number of people present is stabilized. We will vote on the reduction of the deadline for negotiations between first and second reading to 7 days. I've started the vote with order number 201 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 201 of the present 84 for 15, against 22. The motion was not accepted. Now shortening to 20 days. I've started the vote on order 202, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, the order number was 86, for 18, against 1. The motion was not accepted. So now we will vote on a reduction in the deadline for discussion to 30 days, in the vote on order number 203, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour? [[For 82, against no one.]] I realize that I have changed the order of vote, but I have asked if anyone is objecting to the President's procedure and you have not applied the objection. And since there was no motion to reject or return, it was a vote under the Rules of Procedure Act. So we will now return to discussing the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone. We will decide in the vote order number 204, which I have begun. Who is in favour of the Social Policy Committee being a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 204 of the 88 for 88, no one opposed. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for another committee to discuss? It's not like that. In that case, I can say that we have completed our first reading with the fact that the Guarantee Committee is the Social Policy Committee. The time limit for the hearing shall be reduced to 30 days, with the possibility that I may also terminate item No. 51. We'll keep talking. I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for staying at the rapporteur's table, and for taking his place at the rapporteur's table, I will ask Mr Marek Novák, who is the rapporteur of the press 911. We're going to discuss a point.
