ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-08-ps2021-001-01-003-003.u1	3. Information on the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and the election of its officials The list of members of the electoral committee has been distributed to you on the bench. I will ask the elected President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to its members. I ask them to rise when they read their name, then the President of the Election Commission will inform us of the outcome of the Commission's first meeting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-08-ps2021-001-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, honourable public, good afternoon. I want to say hello to you now as President of the Election Commission and thank you for the confidence I received from you or your colleagues last week, for allowing me to take you to the constituencies of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform you first of all that we are in accordance with points 2 and 3 of the Art. On 2 November 2021, a group of Members delegated individual clubs for the establishment of an electoral commission based on parity met in accordance with these points. This group, led by Jaroslav Faltýnek, has set up an electoral committee on the basis of the principle of a proportional representation of 16 members. As Mr President has announced, I will now introduce you to the members of the electoral committee and ask everyone appointed to stand up and present yourself to see what electoral commission will accompany you throughout the election period through the elections held in the Chamber of Deputies. I will present the members of the electoral commission alphabetically: Ondřej Babka for the movement YES, Jan Berki for the STAN, Stanislav Berkovec for the YES. Now three colleagues for ODS: Eva Decroix, Karel Haas, Petr Fifka - I'm sorry, now I skipped my colleagues alphabetically, but I introduced them all three. Next in line: Matěj Ondřej Havel for TOP 09, Klára Kocmanová for Pirates, I am Martin Kolovratník. Also: Jana Krutáková for the movement STAN, Vladimíra Lesenská for the SPD, Patrik Nacher for the movement ANO, Jiří Navrátil for the KDU-ČSL, Petr Sadovskýý - YES, David Šimek - KDU-ČSL, Helena Válková for the movement ANO. Thank you. On the second day of its first meeting on 3 November, this established electoral commission sat down. At this meeting, Martin Kolovratník, President of the Election Commission, elected Mr. Martin Kolovratník to be the YES movement, namely me, and Vice-President of the Election Commission of Mr. Karel Haas for the ODS. We also elected the verifiers on the electoral commission, namely Members of Jan Berki, Stanislav Berkovec, Petr Fifka, Matěj Ondřej Havel, Klára Kocmanová, Vladimíra Lesenská and Jiří Navrátil. We have followed the practice of previous parliamentary periods so that each political club, the parliamentary club, has one representative among the electoral committee's verifiers. By the group of Members responsible for the establishment of the electoral commission before 2 November, the Chamber of Deputies unanimously approved the proposal that the House of Deputies should take note of the establishment of the electoral commission of the House, for all elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies for the entire 9th parliamentary term. It is in accordance with § 47 para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 1 point 7 of the electoral order. Now, at the end of my speech, I would like to ask you, the Chamber of Deputies, to adopt a resolution in which you take note of the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, as I said, for all elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies in the 9th parliamentary term in this composition. This is in line with the resolution of the Group of Members of 2 November and I will read the resolution quickly once more for the tape screen: "I. The group of Members for the establishment of the Election Commission has set the number of members of the Election Commission at 16; and II. She set up the electoral commission as follows: Ondřej Babka, Jan Berki, Stanislav Berkovec, Eva Decroix, Petr Fifka, Karel Haas, Matěj Ondřej Havel, Klára Kocmanová, Martin Kolovratník, Jana Krutáková, Vladimíra Lesenská, Patrik Nacher, Jiří Navrátil, Petr Sadovský, David Šimek and Helena Válková." That is all, Mr President. I beg you to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-08-ps2021-001-01-003-003.u3	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Paragraph 116 (1) of the Treaty, 2 of the Rules of Procedure takes note of the House's establishment of the Election Commission and other members cannot be proposed in the debate. I am now opening the debate. I want to ask if anyone is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? I don't see anyone in the hall, I'm done with the debate. We will therefore proceed to the first vote at this House meeting. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies in the 9th period in this composition...' and follows the list of names as read by the President of the Election Commission. Initiating vote. I ask, who is in favour of such a proposal? Let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number one, we are 194, for 190, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, I'm done with this point. I'm opening another, fourth point, which is
