ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 109th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, so it will be clear what the present is. Replacement cards and their numbers - I refer to the 107th and 108th meetings. kolega Holomčík - replacement card number 15. So are the apologies at this meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure Act at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 4 June this year. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member, Kateřina Valachová, and a Member, Jaroslav Holík. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone. In the voting order number 1, we approve our verifiers. I've started a number one vote, and I'm asking who's for Kateřina Valachová and Jaroslav Holík? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1, from 126 to 117 in favour, 4 against. I note that we have elected the verifiers of this meeting to Member Kateřina Valachová and Member Jaroslav Holík. To the apologies received at the 107th and 108th meetings I am still stating the apology of Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová from 15 to 17 o'clock for work reasons. Let me now state that, on 4 June at the 104th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, in connection with the presentation of the House of Press 1231, informed of the announcement of the state of legislative emergency and the commandment of this House press to the Committee on Health. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of the legislative emergency lasts. However, I have applications before the debate is opened, and this is the application by Vice-President Tomio Okamura, Mr Radim Fiala, and then another one entered into the debate. So before the debate is opened, and that is the debate on the state of legislative emergency, Tomio Okamura will speak with priority rights. Mr. Vice-President... [[Voices from the O.R.: The Minister is still reporting.]] The Minister, yes, will be right after Radim Fial. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to ask you for peace. Take your seats, which you have under the Rules of Procedure and the House's decision, and leave those to whom the word has been given, even before the debate, to express your opinion. I'll give you my word when it's quiet. I'll play you a microphone, but this is pointless. Once again, I ask the House for peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the ANO and ČSSD movement withdrew last week from the current meeting of the House of Commons to the amendment to the Public Health Act. This happened only after we repeatedly threatened blocking negotiations. The SPD rejects the European Union passport and discrimination against people who do not want to be vaccinated and tested. From the beginning, we say that vaccination and testing should be voluntary. From the beginning, we say that we reject discrimination against those who do not want to be vaccinated or tested voluntarily, which in the Czech Republic is about a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic. At the same time, we say that the government should focus on protecting vulnerable groups of citizens. Those endangered groups are already clearly defined. We say: Let us protect the endangered groups of citizens and the overwhelming majority of citizens, which is about 80 percent, which is not threatened by the covido of life, let us live and work. At the same time, we also say that for those citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily or tested, the government should ensure a rapid choice of a safe vaccine. In this proposal, which the government is presenting today for the third time in the so-called legislative emergency to the Chamber of Deputies, the rights and freedoms of citizens are being substantially reduced in the case of approval and the so-called EU passport is being introduced in the Czech Republic. This week, a third extraordinary meeting or special item on this proposal has already been convened for today. The government of the ANO and ČSSD movement is in a hurry and under pressure because the so-called EU passport is due to start to apply as of 1 July. This proposal, which has not been consulted with the SPD, is a problem of security and protection of the privacy of our citizens, and therefore we clearly reject it. On the contrary, we demand that the EU passport should not divide citizens into categories according to whether they are tested or vaccinated, in addition, at a time when there is also a Czech version of the so-called covid passport. The SPD will do everything again to prevent this law from passing, as we managed to bring it down in the House twice, last week. And once again, I stress that there is no need for a covid passport to travel. It is not necessary to introduce it, it is possible to travel without a covid passport. Here, the government gives us an artificial impression that we may be able to live normally only on the basis of some other and other restrictions and licenses. Of course, that's not true. The SPD is refusing discrimination against people who do not want to be vaccinated and tested. We are clearly saying, and I will repeat it again, and throughout the time consistently that vaccination and testing are to be voluntary, and we are calling again on the government, given the summer, autumn and the coming winter, to target protection against vulnerable groups of citizens. We want everything in our country to return to its normal state as it was before this pandemic. We want people to be free to go out, to visit freely, to travel freely, to go to work freely, to go to a restaurant and not to be restricted, especially when we know that covid does not endanger the vast majority of citizens. And once again, we are promoting the protection of vulnerable groups. At the same time, the SPD movement in this context, because once again it is a matter that comes to us from the European Union, the SPD member club supports as the only parliamentary club in the House a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. [[15.10 hours]] At the same time, I would like to point out that we are about to vote on whether the Chamber of Deputies will agree that this law is to be discussed in a so-called legislative emergency. I'd just like to explain briefly. In the event that we do not vote for a legislative emergency here, this law is adjourned. Yes, it ends today. That's the goal, that's what we want as SPD, because the law is simply not prepared to be acceptable to us, to the SPD. However, if you are voting for the so-called legislative emergency, we will continue the negotiations on this law today. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention to the SPD and all our Members, even if you reduce the negotiations to twice 15 minutes - against our will, because we will vote against the limitation of speaking time in such a case - so the entire assembly will perform. The entire MP's club is ready and only this is a performance for some seven to eight hours, plus Radim Fiala and I have priority rights. Plus as agreed - and I hope after what happened here last time, if anyone wants to discuss it, we'll take a two-hour break. And I strongly warn you that if anyone wants to question that right, because we will remember it in the next parliamentary term, of course. So it's going to be about 12 hours together, 12 to 15 hours by guessing. I'm just saying in advance that at the moment we say you're voting for the so-called legislative emergency - we're against it, we're in favour of ending it today, right now, the debate - so automatically add at least 12 to 15 hours to that. Until morning. That's right, until nine o'clock in the morning, when the new negotiations begin. And we're fully prepared for that, all of us sitting here. So I wanted to ask you, as well as the rest of you, from other MPs, all of you, come in with us, and let us reject this urgent law, which limits the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, a large proportion of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and I would say in particular that it is a few million citizens of the Czech Republic, quite really, and let us vote against it, against negotiations in a legislative emergency, and therefore this law would be unnegotiable today and we would end it. That's the SPD position. Otherwise, I've already said what's going to happen from our side, because we think we'd have to explain it well. We'd have to discuss why we don't like it and why, from our point of view, the law is poorly prepared. Otherwise, I think there's another way to deal with this situation... Why some sort of flat-cover passport? After all, this can be dealt with by bilateral agreements so that people can travel normally. Why any covid passport, a printed other covid EU passport? As if there were no other infectious diseases, as if there were no other diseases. That's pretty obvious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. With the priority right before the debate, Radim Fiala - gives up, so in that case the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch with priority rights before we decide on both the legislative emergency and the agenda of the meeting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you at all what the law is about before you vote, because I feel that what I have heard here and what I have been hearing in the last few days, and perhaps what the people who are at the demonstration before the Chamber of Deputies, are simply not true information. It's distorted information, it's twisted information that might cause some concern, some fear of restricting rights, but it just isn't true. The law, as it is prepared, is indeed a purely technical standard. Yes, I agree that there was a different version of the law behind my predecessor earlier. When I came to the post of Minister of Health, I made it clear that the law must be so-called "cut to the bone," which means there is no information that the person who has the covid passport is somehow limited to his rights. You won't find one such information about the fact that a covid passport could restrict a person to his rights to enter or something like that. The legal standard, the amendment to the Public Health Act, only deals with the fact that there is a certificate that Members of the European Parliament today have given a overwhelming majority of votes, where your fellow representatives are certainly in these voices that supported it, and this certificate has some structure. Of course, it is issued to a person who is vaccinated, who has been tested or had a disease - my previous speaker here also forgot to mention that it is three ways - both vaccination, testing, and suffering from the disease - and on the basis of the identification of the person, this person gets confirmation about it, and gets it either through electronic form, electronic identity, or from the health service provider on the basis of printing a paper certificate. And that's it. That's all this law contains. It doesn't say where the certificate will be applicable, what it makes possible to do, what cannot be done. So this is really the absolute basis of the fact that there's this certificate that confirms, actually authenticates the fact that this person is either vaccinated, he's had a disease, or he's been tested. And, of course, we are doing this primarily to enable people to travel throughout the European Union. Yes, Vice-President Okamura, through the Vice-President, says that we can actually negotiate this bilaterally. So we will be dealing with the 27 countries of the European Union, which, of course, is completely unrealistic. We have dealt bilaterally with seven countries, but it is not possible to negotiate all conditions with all countries. That is why Europe has agreed to have a unified system, a unified verification, so that people can really move freely across the European Union, and I think that is something that people expect. They're on vacation, they're on vacation, they want to go to Spain, to Italy, to all these countries to the sea, and this is just something that makes it possible to prove that they're really infectible, which means they've met any of these conditions. Yes, we can talk here about the fact that covid doesn't exist or anything like that, but we're still facing a pandemic that just exists here, we have an import of mutations from abroad and so on, so I think it's perfectly legitimate for there to be some kind of verification that a person is contagious, that it's really not some kind of threat to public health. And that is something that confirms the certificate, and nothing more, and it is indeed fully compatible with the regulation that has been passed by the European Parliament today. Sometimes there are arguments about the fact that the regulation is actually enough, that there is no need for national regulation anymore. I deliberately let my condition go out in other countries, for example. I have not yet found a country that does not change national legislation on the basis that we have this European Union regulation. Just those states have to adapt their systems on the basis of this regulation, because this regulation says only that there is some covid passport, that all states must recognise it and that there is some interoperability within the system, but not how one gets to it, how one is identified, that some data is being used, that in short, the data is being collected and so on. That's something that must contain the law, I'm actually convinced of it. Today, the current situation is that we are dealing with this on the basis of an extraordinary measure that the data about a person being vaccinated or tested are collected on the basis of an extraordinary measure. It's not in the law, it's been fairly vehemently criticized. I'm surprised that people are actually saying today, some of your colleagues, that we don't have to put it into the law. This is exactly what has been criticized all the time, that it is not anywhere in the law, that it is only on the basis of the extraordinary measures. So we want to make it clear to the law, and this is what the Office of Personal Data Protection has repeatedly demanded, so that it is not only somewhere in emergency measures, but in the law. This is something that I simply think is completely legitimate, this request, and we are here to meet it. And that's all the law is about. So I really don't understand the debate, I don't actually understand the resistance. Not to mention, of course, that we had dealings with some of our opposition colleagues last week, they had an opinion, and now they seem different. I respect that. That's politics. But really, if the law is not adopted and is not adopted in a legislative emergency, because the time is very, very tense, then it can happen that, first of all, the problem will be at all to have the data available, who is vaccinated, who is being tested, because it is the data that is being collected today only and only on the basis of extraordinary measures. If anyone attacks this in court and the court cancels the emergency measure, we have no pouvoir today to collect data on who is vaccinated and who is tested and on the basis of which to issue the certificate. So I really think that's a legal problem. [[15.20 hours]] And the second problem is that in that law, we say that providers can issue those certificates - or that they have to issue them - it's a free obligation because it takes regulation. And if that law doesn't exist, it won't be that obligation either, so people who want to get to that certificate through the provider won't get to it, because it's only up to the provider if they issue the certificate, if they have to charge 500 crowns, 1,000 crowns, 2,000 crowns for it, because it says they have to be issued free of charge. Only the cost of acquiring the physical copy may be claimed. So if anyone wants 5,000 crowns for that certificate, they'll charge 5,000 crowns for it, and we can't, and we have no way of stopping it. And that's how people are going to be faced with the situation that they're going to want those certificates from the provider. He's gonna charge that kind of money for it, and I don't think it's fair at all. So don't really take it that we're doing something for free here, that we kind of like to design this law here. We have to have it so that we can anchor the basic principle. If someone is vaccinated, tested or has had a disease, a certificate must be issued to him if, of course, he is required, and on the basis of this certificate, he will be able to move freely throughout the European Union. That is all that this law is about, and I am asking you, in favour of our citizens, to be sure that they will actually get to these certificates and that they will be able to use them in the coming months to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u5	He will now perform with priority rights the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, I think the Minister here has described exactly what the certificate is. He said, "What's wrong with that?" Well, we don't like what you said, Minister, the way you described him, the certificate. And I'll tell you a few things. From our point of view, it's redundant. We all have international vaccination certificates. Now we're gonna have a covid certificate. What's next year's certificate for? Will it be HIV positive, or will there be any other certificates? Another thing I think needs to be said. The European Union - yes, right, the European Union and its bureaucratic nature. Now I'm going to paraphrase a Czech comedy. Give the European Union a job and they'll come up with a certificate in this case. So I understand, by its very nature, that the European Union must tell us that it is important that it organises us all, and that is why it will come up with a certificate. Three. You've said one sentence here several times: one will be identified. That's also what bothers us. Every airport will see you beeping those QR codes where you've been, what you've been doing, your passport and IDs add fingerprints, maybe DNA or something else, and what's next? It's the Big Brother's salami method! That's not possible. So exactly what you said, and you're okay with it, so it bothers us because it cuts us off a little bit by bit of our personal freedom, and we don't think that's necessary. For those who ask how you would handle it - well, we don't want any certificate! And those bilateral agreements will be with countries that will be on the rise with the covid. We do not claim that it does not exist, and, as our chairman said, let us protect the endangered groups. And in those countries, right now, it's like Nepal, where the infection or the virus is on the rise, so we're gonna agree that you're just gonna make a ban on traveling to this country right now. But I can't see and we don't want to - we say that covid passports restrict travel. You're saying we're all gonna have them and it's gonna be amazing and beautiful. And we say, no, we don't want them, we want to travel without them, just like we did a year and a half ago. So that's all that bothers us, and I'd like to ask you all not to vote for the legislative emergency. We can't just pass a law like that with a snap of a finger. So that's my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u7	The Chairman of TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek has now signed up with priority rights and then the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch is signed up. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our MEPs supported the European Union's material because we want the citizens of the Czech Republic to be able to travel as easily as possible throughout the countries of the European Union. It does not concern anyone else, only the countries of the European Union. So we want our citizens to travel as easily as possible. I want my students to be able to go to Erasmus, and I want my Ph.D. students to be able to go to foreign internships so that it doesn't complicate things so that it is as simple as possible, and this regulation actually says that no country of the European Union can go beyond this regulation. That is, what happened is that some countries for these or those reasons prevented us from going there, so this regulation simplifies here. It simplifies the life of the pendlers in a fundamental way, and here I think I'm going to agree with what was said here. I had a time when we couldn't travel. I've been through a time when we couldn't leave the Republic and ruled by xenophobes who didn't want anyone to come out, and if possible no one to us, and if anyone tried, they shot him at the border, and I don't want this. I want to be free, free to travel across the European Union, and here this regulation of the European Union commands those countries. Part of this regulation is that those countries have a free duty - free! have an obligation to issue certificates to their citizens so that they can travel. Tot confirmation is issued today. This confirmation, as we have passports, as we have other confirmations, after all, the electronic ticket contains a lot of data about Vlastimil Válek, and I have never hung up on it, so we are issuing this regulation. We issue a confirmation of vaccination in the Czech Republic, we issue a confirmation of a negative test in the Czech Republic, and where we have not been able to meet the Minister of Health completely, and I agree that negotiations and debates on this should continue and be more intense, but this is not the opposition's fault, it is whether this needs to be treated by some special law that defines what parameters, say, a database that issues the confirmation, meets or does not have to. We believe that the current law or that the current situation in the Czech Republic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u9	Please, I'll cut you off, somebody turn off the ringtone! So please, you can go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u10	Maybe it was an important call.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u11	Then I'll ask you to turn off the bell in the hall. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr President. This means that we, as the opposition, are by no means those who want to prevent the issue of confirmation in any way so that our citizens can travel easily, of course, across the European Union, because it is a regulation of the European Union. What we don't agree about is the need for a special law. Yes, if the methodological instruction on the basis of which the certificates are currently issued is contrary to Czech legislation and threatens to be attacked by the court as well as some previous decrees by the Ministry, then it should be made clear. It should be made clear that this methodological directive is contrary to the law and that this is the reason why a legislative standard is to be adopted and we can discuss it. But it didn't really sound like that. Moreover, as opposition, we strongly support the possibility for citizens with higher levels of antibodies to travel in this way. And I will explain again why we believe that this is necessary and why we believe that this does not prevent this from happening in the European Union's regulation. This regulation says that a citizen who has had a covid disease should therefore be given the confirmation of a covid disease. And across the Health Committee, and I'm not ashamed to admit that the first person to raise the subject was Professor Adámková and Dr Kaňkovský, so across the Health Committee, what about the antibodies? [[15.30 hours]] Of course, in a number of diseases, you're showing evidence of antibodies. Also, if the doctor asks you, for example, if you have an appendix removed, if you have an appendectomy, he won't open your stomach again and see if it's true, but he'll give you the information you give him, possibly a report from the attending doctor. A number of medical data are done based on a history. And now let's see what the situation was like at some point in the beginning of the year and in the first months of the spring. After all, we in autumn or winter - a number of people were straggled, quarantined and waited and repeatedly warned about it - I now see a colleague and colleagues from the Health Committee on the left and right in the Chamber of Deputies, without distinction, of the political parties who pointed it out. Mrs Gajdůšková, through Mr President, I now think that the citizens are waiting for them to be invited to the test, waiting 10 days, 14 days and not being invited to the test. They were quarantined, their attending physician concluded that they were sick, and they needed a test in time to confirm their disease, and they didn't. For this reason, we believe that if they have high antibodies, it is circumstantial proof that they have experienced the disease, and because in this huge regulation it is clearly stated that confirmation or information is to be issued to those who have experienced the disease, this is one way to prove that they have suffered the disease. Again, we have not heard a single argument that would disprove our position. And these are the reasons why we cannot support this law at this stage and at this stage. It is not because we do not want our citizens to travel freely, on the contrary. We want them to have that opportunity, and we want them to be able to travel across the European Union, but we believe that there is nothing to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u13	Now I have two priority rights here. Minister Adam Vojtěch will be the first to speak and Martin Kupka will then be prepared as Vice-President of ODS. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just want to respond here to some of the things that have been said here, I think, from Chairman Fiala. I meant that the person who gets the certificate really has to be verified that he's really the person who's asking for it. That means, that's the identification, not - and that's some disinformation that I wouldn't want to hear here - that someone would identify someone in the field and find out where he was, and map where he visited the pub or something like that. That's total nonsense. No such covid passport or certificate contains and can't, and it's nothing to count on. The I.D. is that we really need to know that this is Jan Novák, born in the day and the day he asks for the certificate, and he can be issued, that's all. That, of course, is completely legitimate for us to know which person is specifically involved. And this is where we keep talking about wanting to get back to normal, into normal life. We're in an abnormal time, we're in an unprecedented time. I think that every reasonable person is aware of that in the last year. This is a solution, and here I agree with Professor Válek, how to return to normal, how to travel freely, how not to have any barriers. That's why we need covido passports, certificates, what we're going to call it, which guarantees this, and that's really going back to normal. Yes, it's not completely normal, I get it, but on the other hand, we're not ancestors at the time, and we just won't be for a while. I think that every reasonable person sees the situation as it is and what it was like here in the last year, and those patients who were in hospitals who died weren't really made up. That must be said. This guarantees that we are really going back to normal. And as for what has been said here that we have the regulation, I say again that we have the regulation, yes, but the regulation doesn't say at all how one gets the certificate, how it is found that it has been vaccinated or tested. That's what every state has to do for itself. And at this point, the Czech Republic is providing this through extraordinary measures that provide for this data to be collected about someone being vaccinated, that they are being tested, that they are reporting somewhere to the ISIN. It's not covered in the law. This is an extraordinary measure, from our point of view, something that can be dealt with for a temporary period, but certainly not for a long time. And if it really happens here that whoever attacks this and the court cancels these extraordinary measures, then basically the data will not be collected at all, that is, certificates will not be possible to issue in any way, because we will not know who is vaccinated, who is tested or who has had the disease. That's the whole story. And that's why we need this simple formula in the law, that the data is actually collected about being vaccinated, being tested, having had a disease, and based on that, the certificate is issued to him. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u15	Mr Martin Kupka, now with priority rights for the ODS club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, we really want people to get to the service that the state is supposed to provide for them to be the easiest, as normal as possible, and we believe that it is possible to make use of existing legislation, notabene legislation, on which this Chamber of Deputies agreed, for example in the form of a law on the right of a citizen to digital service, so that people who have their data in various public administration information systems can become able to access them as easily as possible and that, for example, a large network of Czech POINTs can be used in this regard, because it is possible to extend the range of information, or a range of services provided by the Czech POINTs network, through simple intervention in the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior's decree. We're looking for a way to really widen the scale that people will have at their disposal, and let's not solve the technological path here, the technical details. We are concerned with ensuring the path as easily as possible with access to information and thanks to the law on the right of citizens to digital services, this is easier to access than before our authorities actually have. By the way, it is justified by older legislation, which says that if any data is in the information system of the public administration, then the State has an obligation to provide an extract of information from this information system of the public administration. On this basis, it is possible to offer people a simple, easy way to travel without great difficulty. We have responses at present from people who need to go beyond the Czech Republic for various reasons, whether they are studying, purely working, business and so on, that they encounter dramatic obstacles, that this means a real complication in their lives, in their working matters, and we call for the real state to look quickly. The existing legislation allows people in real time, within a few weeks, to gain easy access to that service, simply to meet and provide them with a service in this regard. Therefore, to be clear, if something is redundant, common sense is in charge of not getting into it, not making the legal system difficult, but simply following the legislation in force. We call for this service to exist as quickly as possible, for citizens to be as comfortable as possible, so we do not consider it necessary to introduce a new intervention in legislation, a new intervention in law. Therefore, the ODS will not vote in favour of the approval of the programme or of the state of legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u17	I have now been informed by Mr Petr Pávek that he represents the President of the club. Since he's here alone, I'll give him some space. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, Mr President. So let me just briefly repeat the position and position of the Mayors and Independents Club. We are fundamentally opposed to this standard, and we will not support the shortening of deadlines, nor the legislative need, nor this item of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u19	I will look around to see if anyone else is reporting for the debate. Reporting, yes. Mr. Profant for the pirát. Then Minister Adam Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. They've already told most of my predecessors here. We will not support this proposal for the Pirate Party, because we also consider it redundant, insufficiently justified. If we simply want to collect - I note that permanently, because it is there without limitation - other personal data of other citizens, we need to explain why we want them, why you want the place of birth and the other data you want to collect there. You have to explain what you want them for, and we don't understand. So either you want to identify a citizen, then you probably just need a birth number or another identifier, or you want to collect a lot of data. [[15.40 hours]] In our discussions with health care, it was said that they wanted the data for foreigners and so on. Well, then maybe we should distinguish our citizens, who we have identified, who we know who he is, and strangers. And we found a lot of such mistakes or confusion. We really were not convinced by the Ministry that we should vote in favour of this, so we are not going to support it at present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u21	I now have two more priority rights, so Minister Adam Vojtěch and Mr Marek Výborný for the KDU-ČSL Club. Please note that we are not in the debate, so only priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would only react with regard to the right of citizens to access the digital service. But the problem is that about 5 million people don't have an electronic identity at the moment. What about these people? Many of them simply have to get to the certificate only and only through their health service provider, which prints it out to them, and this law allows them to do so. If we don't do this, the providers don't have that obligation, they won't give them the certificate, it'll be up to them if they print it or not, and I really think that's a problem. So not everyone uses - and I agree with you that this is the ideal option, to have an electronic identity, a banking identity, and beyond, these are all great things that can be used. But what about some senior who wants the certificate and wants it from his medical examiner, and that medical examiner is supposed to issue it to him on the basis of this law, and if it's not in the law, then the medical examiner doesn't have to expose it to him at all, it's on his liking, and the question, of course, at what cost. So that's something we have to take into account that not everyone uses an electronic identity. I don't think I'm gonna talk anymore, because I think that the debate, all the arguments have been made in it, it's up to you. All I'm saying is, I can't guarantee, I can't guarantee completely responsible here that the system, as it is set up, without the legal support, will work in the long run. I don't think I can guarantee it responsibly. Sorry about that. And if that system is disrupted by some judicial decision, by abolishing an emergency measure or something, then unfortunately, you will have to defend that to your constituents if you do not vote in favour of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u23	Otherwise, I would like to point out that they are now merely giving priority rights and not... If someone is in charge of the club's position, it's not at this point, it's in the debate. Only priority rights. I'll read one apology. She apologizes from 15.08 to 19 o'clock, Mrs Helena Válková, on account of illness. Marek Výborný will now perform with priority rights for the KDU-ČSL Club and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared with priority rights for the KSČM Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, Government, colleagues, let me briefly present the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. After an expert debate, we concluded that, as a KDU-ČSL, we would not support this bill as a KDU-ČSL after the debate, as well as the debate with other colleagues within the SPOLU coalition. We have repeatedly asked the Minister for information on what reason it is necessary for what the votes of all our MEPs today, by the way, have been supported by the European Parliament, that is, the European Green Certificate, so why it requires some Czech version, which is additional, where citizens will provide additional data to the state. We believe that a citizen already has the right to extract from the health documentation today, this is a relatively simple technique where this could be linked to the Czech POINT, just as you are going as for a criminal record, it would be possible to de facto have a quasi proof of infectivity and, on that basis, to allow citizens to travel completely freely. It would be a simple tool that can be used, and we believe that it is not necessary to go this way. Therefore, KDU-ČSL does not support this wording of the law, as the Ministry prepared it and unfortunately no longer communicated. Even the originally scheduled meeting or round table did not take place today. So we are not prepared to vote for the agenda for this meeting or for the law itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u25	He will now appear, as the last member of the KSČM club to be registered with priority rights, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the KSČM club has long drawn attention to the problems that the Czech society has through the health committee. It was us who pointed out by my mouth that there was a large group of people who had passed through the covideo, that there was no record of it and that it had antibodies. They volunteered to pay for antibody testing, they have a positive form, they have antibodies. There's evidence in the systems somewhere, no one's counting on them. Personally, I've intersected three health ministers to get someone to look into it. At a time when the vaccine deficiency was critical, I pointed out that these people may not be vaccinated because they have the antibodies. It is even dangerous, in the opinion of some experts who claim to do so. It is even the official opinion of vaccination experts that people who have antibodies should not be vaccinated, which means they have gone through this disease. Still, he didn't consider it. We are now in a state where it is one of the arguments that rightly sounds to the proposal that comes from the Ministry of Health, the so-called covid passports. KSČM rejects the introduction of other documents of this type that resemble a strong velký bratr. Coincidentally, we were here discussing the Civil Card Act. Remember, colleagues, when the ID card became a card without any data. So on the one hand, we are trying to protect the identity of citizens, but on the other hand, we find that the state needs something, wants some evidence, and we invent, pardonfully, we invent things absolutely unnecessary. After long debates, the European Union has come to some agreement on some document to facilitate - not to make it possible automatically - travel easier. It is not said anywhere that individual states of the European Union have to take this into account. It's just a support argument to check, to quickly check on those arriving. It doesn't even mean that it automatically means that we can travel. It does not mean at all that you will travel outside the European Union. It is purely and solely a matter for the European Union. As a KSČM we look at this very negatively, that we ignore our comments from the Ministry of Health, which we had and have applied in the long term within the health committee. Our Member - she looks at me and I am glad she listens because I think we did a great job - Aulická Jírovcová kept pointing that out, and I was the annoying one who always asked her, "Please, what did the Minister say to you? How did he react? Have you guys been there before? The answer was often silence because she didn't know either. And this is a person who attends those committees, participates regularly in those committees, and should have the utmost information. Now stand outside and explain to those people who have a tenth - maybe not even that - of the information that we should have, as it really is. I'm not able to come forward and argue with them because I don't have those arguments. And the Ministry of Health looks like the famous ostrich that sticks its head in the sand and recalls: It is us nothing, it is the European Union, and uses yet an unfair argument: If you want to travel, you must have it. If you want to travel, without it you will not travel, and you are the ones who prevent travel to citizens. Minister, it's not true! It's not true. Even today, citizens travel. They go to work, the Pendlers work, they have confirmations, they're doing antigen tests, everything those states require. It could be a little bit easier. Let's look for ways to make things easier, but in the form of existing database systems of the state, sharing information between state databases, and perhaps going to a doctor who knows me has my I.D., he's got my full history, he's willing to print me the medical data and make me the QR code on the printer. I don't know a doctor who's such an unhuman and refuses to talk to me in that spirit. That there is no legal puvoir - does a doctor really have to have a legitimate reason for every such thing, or even a reward for it? [[15.50 hours]] How many people will be involved in this in the Czech Republic? It could be a million people who want to travel this season. And the law, if you read correctly, in this particular case was defined as a law common to COVID-19, only and only. Do you think it'll be necessary next year? I think that this is an immediate solution to an alibi of the European Union, and especially of the Czech alibi for this tourist season, and it is not so directly related to the consequences that we will have with this disease in the future within the economy and other matters. Therefore, let us really look for a simple and clear path, not through law, but through the use of existing database systems. The Czech POINTs are here, I welcome it, great! There are data boxes that are ideal for citizens. We even want to motivate people to set up data boxes that really make it easier to contact both the Financial Administration and tax areas, but even here in this matter. It's an ideal opportunity to take advantage of this and tell people. Why don't we use it? Therefore, as a KSČM, we are very negative about this, and if the Ministry does not understand this from this debate, I really do not know how to further appeal to ministerial officials to look at people's concerns, to look at what is happening in society, and also to look for reasonable ways within the state administration and not only to make it easier for them to write the law, sanctions and citizens will be best added to the law, care! I don't think this is the right way for the 21st century, and we should go about it this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-109-01-000-000.u27	At this point, I don't have another priority right. I'll look around the O.R., so according to Section 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I'm opening the debate. No one's checking in. So if there is no one else to report to the debate, I am done with the debate. We'll proceed to the vote, I'll engage. [[Members indicate with cards the need for a new login.]] Yes, yes, just once, I'm signing you off. Please log in with your voting cards again. We'll wait. [[Members come to the hall, revival, laughter.]] I can see someone's getting away. So once again, I will conclude and make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 135 Members registered, for 58, versus 71. The motion has not been approved. [[Strong applause from the right side of the hall.]] Since the House has not confirmed the duration of the legislative emergency, the first reading of the House's press 1231 cannot be discussed at this meeting, since at the same time the period of 10 days following the receipt of this proposal has not been respected. The press was delivered 31. 5. 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the 109th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now ending.
