ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u1	500. The draft law amending Act No. 461/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended by Act No. 584/2020 Coll. House print 1134/2/ - returned to the Senate Welcome to the senator. We interrupted this item on Tuesday, 9 February following the speech of Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, following a request for a break at the meeting of the ODS and KDU-ČSL Members' Clubs before the speech of Senator Žáková. The debate has not yet been opened. [[9.20 hours]] So, Madam Secretary has already taken her place at the rapporteur's desk. [[The noise in the Chamber persists, some Members speak in noisy.]] I remind you that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We have received his resolution as House Press 1134/3, and information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I'll ask Senator Hana Žáková to take the floor. I'll ask the rest of you to take your seats. [[Noise persists.]] Calm down, please. If you have anything to discuss, go to the foyer. Please, you guys who have some meetings, get out of the O.R.! [[It's ringing to calm down in the hall.]] Well, Senator, try it, maybe it'll be quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear Members, last time I did not get to the floor and I wanted to thank you for your kind reception here at the House of Deputies. Now, about the Senate's amendments. In total, I will advocate three amendments. One is mine, and two are my fellow Senator Šárka Jelínková. The amendment by Senator Jelínková concerns two points. The first is that the amount of CZK 500 as a daily compensatory bonus for entrepreneurs replaces this proposal with CZK 667, on the ground that, unlike the spring version of the compensatory bonus, this is no longer exempt from compulsory contributions, and therefore the amount would be exactly CZK 167 lower than it was in the spring. We are therefore correcting this amendment in order to make it a comparable compensatory bonus, as entrepreneurs received and received in the spring period. Another amendment by my colleague is a proposal for an extension with retroactive effect of the conditions of the compensatory bonus so that it will be granted to all entrepreneurs of the compensatory bonus, for which at least 80% of the sales decline occurred during the period in question as a result of the spread of COVID-19 disease. In this context, the deadline for applying for a compensatory bonus is extended from 2 to 12 months. It thus responds to narrowing down the spectrum of entrepreneurs who can apply for a compensatory bonus. In the first wave, the epidemic was sufficient if the businessman was overly affected by restrictions on demand or supply. This bill requires an immediate ban or restriction on the activities of government measures. They only prohibit the sale of goods and the provision of services. As far as my amendment is concerned, this amendment aims to mitigate the negative impact on the self-government budget, which is to be compensated for in real terms according to the share in the payment of the compensatory bonus after the end of the bonus period. The intention is for an injustice to be settled, where, in the case of the spring compensatory bonus, one-off contributions were subsequently paid to municipalities, with which the current bill no longer counts. The self-management would thus be affected by the current crisis twice, both by the decline in the collection of shared taxes due to the constraints of the economy on the basis of extraordinary government measures, and by the payment of the compensatory bonus for these exceptional measures. As already mentioned, this is a compensation, the amount of which will be determined according to the actual share in the payment of the compensatory bonus, thus preventing speculation as to whether the level of compensation is adequate for the self-government. I realize very well that this will have an impact on the state budget. I know that the Minister is trying to help the needy, and with every expense, he has considerable concerns about how to fill the revenue side. But this cannot be done on the part of the authorities. Self-administration for the state and, above all, for the government are an indispensable partner and we always treat partners with respect, fairness and fairness. This is also my amendment based on a fair share of the payment of a compensation bonus for self-government. The argument that municipalities are overpaid and they have a lot of money in their accounts is not a fair argument. Without the knowledge of the investment projects of individual cities, municipalities and regions, we cannot make such an easy argument. Has anyone figured out that self-governments finance grants from their budgets, such as schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, hospitals? Are we really going to let it fall to the very bottom, when it will not even be to pay for the energy of individual entities, not to mention investment? I'm not standing here today with an imaginary stretch of hand for helping self-government and entrepreneurs. I'm standing here because the stretchy hand also means a serious offer to cooperate. I welcome the change in the government's position that it has finally agreed that taking money from municipalities and regions from the tax budget is unacceptable. The funds are intended to be used for the development of self-government, for a better life for citizens in the regions. The Constitution clearly guarantees municipalities self-government. The money from the budgetary determination of taxes cannot be used to reimburse other necessary support for vulnerable citizens and firms. If the government does, it has to replace it. The government sent compensation and assistance to municipalities in the summer to deal with the crisis. However, by continuing to pay the bonus, the region is shrinking from what was to be intended to support municipalities and cities during the pandemic period. Unfortunately, the county didn't receive any replacements. During the fall, the government claimed that the compensation bonus for the municipalities does not have to be replaced. Now she's finally changed her mind. The government has agreed to demand that everything is added up after the bonus has been paid and that the failure will be replaced by the failure. However, contrary to the Senate proposal, the government proposal has two fundamental differences. Otherwise, it's practically identical. Compare the Senate proposal and the current government proposal. However, differences are important. The government says that they will replace the authorities with four fifths of what was taken from their budget tax determination, which is 80 per cent, and that this will happen later than the Senate proposes, five months after the end of payment of the compensatory bonus. I'd like to politely ask why. Why should they replace the authorities that were taken from four fifths, i.e. only 80 percent? Who set it up? These funds are taxes paid by citizens and companies and are to be used in the development of municipalities, towns and regions, and thus improve the quality of life in our regions. Why does the Minister propose only 80 per cent? What's taken should be replaced. Government intervention in the budgetary determination of taxes is very dangerous and unacceptable. The guarantee of the position of self-government and their income is the law, therefore Parliament. Why does the government propose five months to pay back to the authorities? The Senate proposes a reasonable period of three months after the end of payment. It merely indicates that while the government has taken the money immediately, the return will be, as usual, long and bureaucratic. If our state is unable to settle the compensation in a reasonable three-month period, it also bears witness to something. The community must invest the money right away in economic recovery. It's crucial here every week. Therefore, if the government is proposing only two deviations from the Senate proposal, then both are changes to the worse, changes that will, rather, deepen the crisis, completely unnecessary. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] You will not really vote today if you support the Senate. I'm a long-time former mayor. I know what I'm talking about. When I ask you to support the municipalities, cities and regions, and to think about these two differences compared to a government proposal that is not even yet in the Chamber of Deputies: firstly, why should the government be replaced not by the whole amount that has been taken away from them in addition to all the effects of the pandemic, but only 80 per cent, and why should this happen later than three months later? I therefore believe that your vote is in fact not some Senate proposal, but whether we will support our cities, municipalities and regions fairly. We should agree on that. [[9.30 hours]] In conclusion, let me do one more thing, one more personal one. I would like to wish you enough health, strength, determination and the abundance of blessed wise decisions in this new year. We will need them for our state, but also for ourselves, to pass this difficult test without greater loss, but especially in health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u3	Thank you, Senator. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Kamal Farhan, want to express his position on the amendments tabled by the Senate at first reading? It's not like that. So I open the debate and ask who is interested in speaking in the debate. Mr Ferjenčík is the first to be registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this amendment has succeeded in the final vote. Since December, we've been discussing with the Treasury how to solve this huge shoe that people in insolvencys lost their claim to a compensatory bonus. I am glad that a solution has been achieved, and it has been dragged through the legislative process. Today we can finally approve. I know the wait was awfully long, but hopefully it'll work out tonight. At the same time, I wanted to ask you to support the Senate version of the proposal, because at the moment when the tradesmen's contributions are not forgiven, the 170 crowns a day are terribly lacking for those people. Just the difference between 500 crowns and 330 crowns is considerable and really out of 10,000 at a time when you have to cover some of the costs of your business, you can't live on it. For this reason, I appeal very much to you, please support the Senate version of this press. Anyway, we'll support the MP if the senate doesn't pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u6	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Senator, colleagues. I, too, am coming here in a situation where it is decided, because I have understood - and I do not want to vote on this Senate return on Wednesday - that perhaps coalition Members do not want to support the Senate version. Yet here I am trying to appeal to normal sense, which analyzes the situation in the field, in practice, among people, and which is based on the fact that the Senate version contains the changelings that have been mentioned here, the possibility that the compensation bonus can also be drawn by those operators, traders who do not have establishments. Many of them are in a situation where either they didn't have establishments because they didn't need them, they were in their own, and thus the conditions of the COVID program - Rent doesn't help them, or they lost those establishments during last year because they simply cost savings. I have noted the arguments that it would have cost - last night at the press conference - hundreds of billions of crowns. If you read the explanatory note, it's calculated there. This is a maximum of approximately CZK 1.2 billion. I think these people are supposed to be worth it to us, and this whole amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act is almost three months of opposition effort. At the beginning of the story, we say: we need to remember those who are in the debt process and are excluded from the possibility of drawing this money. But we also said: remember also those who do not have an establishment. I really don't understand the difference why I'm looking at a businessman who can't do business, he can't make a living, he's got government regulations that prevent the possibility of sustenance for himself and his kids, his family, and the government says, "No, no, you who are tens of thousands in this situation, so you won't get the compensation bonus. I still don't understand why, what's the rational reason these people aren't supposed to get it. That's why I come here again and ask and appeal, support this group of people. It's not small, it's very important to them. For example, those we are talking about have not received a crown since October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u7	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support the Senate's return. There are two reasons. First of all, that compensation bonus could be received by those who do not have an establishment, even though they do the same as others, even though they have income losses, so far they are not entitled to a compensation bonus. And, of course, the second reason is that the Senate proposal says that the outages from the compensation bonus for municipalities and regions are to be replaced at a rate of 100 percent, and that is to say the actual amount. The difference with last year's compensation is precisely that compensation will take place depending on how much the compensation bonus will actually be paid. I have looked at the arguments put forward by the Ministry of Finance and the Secretary of State for why he cannot support such a proposal. One of these arguments was that municipalities and regions have a lot of money in their accounts, and if they don't have that money to borrow. I must say that we cannot take that argument. For what reason? The municipalities and regions breathe with the budgets of the state, through revenue outages. This means, if the state is doing well in tax collection, the municipalities are also doing well and their incomes are rising. If the state collects less, the income of municipalities and regions is also falling. Of course, municipalities can borrow and regions can borrow. But let us consider that for years they have been saving up for large investments, such as plumbing, sewerage, schools, kindergartens, road repairs, cleaners and so on, and now the state wants to take this money from them through a compensatory bonus, so that one third of the cost of a compensation bonus will be borne by municipalities and regions? I firmly believe that the Minister will still consider supporting this proposal. Interestingly, she called this proposal absolutely inappropriate and rude last week. I was therefore very surprised that on Monday she began to talk about the fact that municipalities and regions could be compensated for what was taken away from them by means of a compensatory bonus. And I am very glad that at this moment the Minister is also becoming a lobbyist for municipalities and regions, as she called me very contemptuously, that I am the one who lobbies here for municipalities and regions. I just don't understand why the proposal that should go to government on Monday is only 80 per cent compensation, why there is no compensation of 100 per cent. I so firmly believe that you will support this Senate proposal, because to municipalities and regions, the losses from the compensation bonus would be replaced in a real amount of 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u9	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, hello, Madam Secretary, Prime Minister. I would like to ask all of you to really consider the difficult situation of businessmen who carry out such an activity that they do not need their own establishment, and only because they are unable to carry out their activities have reduced or no income at all, and yet no compensation applies to them. Please consider it very well. I am pleased that the Economic Committee - and I beg your attention, because it is very important for your decision - has adopted the following resolution unanimously on 3 February 2021 in our Chamber of Deputies: "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is asking the Government to extend the possibility of a compensatory bonus for self-employed workers without their own establishment, which are primarily and secondaryly affected by government measures." That's the back of the Senate. Such a measure shall be included. Given that, for this resolution, there has been a clear consensus across the political spectrum on the Economic Committee, I believe, I hope and appeal to you others who are not members of the Economic Committee, that you will consider the difficult situation of these people who do not really have almost any income and have no compensation. The only difference between, for example, such a photographer is that one photographer has a studio and is entitled to a compensation bonus because he has an establishment, and one, for example, does it from home, has a home address, does not have an establishment and does not qualify for a compensation bonus. And it's very discriminatory for these people. So please consider it. I have read the resolution of the Economic Committee on this subject, and please consider it as an appeal to the rest of you to support us, members of the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u11	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. So if no one checks in, I'm done with the debate... Excuse me, Mr Nacher's point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u12	Good morning. I actually volunteered. I wanted to respond to my colleague Marian Jurečka. I understand how I wasn't here yesterday, that audiences often don't know when to vote here, who votes here, how many people vote here, etc. Let's make this very clear. This amendment to the compensation bonus as a return from the Senate was discussed on Tuesday in full, meaning that there were 200 of us here. The reason is that the possibility - both practical and theoretical - is to overrule the Senate because 101 is needed. At 18.45 a club took a two-hour break and then accumulated another club half an hour, even yours, so that day ended. You then suggested to put the point on Wednesday morning, when we are here but in half the number, that means that theoretically it is not possible to overvote the Senate. That's why it's here today when we're back in full. It's like an explanation for the remark that we could have approved on Wednesday. Well, we could've approved on Tuesday. I don't really care what form it is right now, but it really needs to be said fair and square, because the audiences don't know when we're in full numbers here, when we're in half the number, so it needs to be made clear. Now we're in full numbers here because we have a backlash from the Senate. We could've done it on Tuesday night, because of the breaks, we didn't do it. Such a brief remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u13	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll allow myself to react briefly to my colleague Nacher. It's a little different. The agreement in the House is that until the Senate returns are discussed, we are going in full order. Only the ANO movement said it didn't apply to them, so they only came halfway here on Wednesday, even though it wasn't yet discussed. That's your decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u15	I cannot comment from my position, however, as Chairman, I must say that these agreements are not really like that, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u16	Thank you. I am going to respond to my colleague Patrik Nacher, through Mr President. I think Patrik Nacher knows why we took those breaks. Breaks - I will say it again here to make it really clear - were taken because we had negotiations with the Prime Minister and the other party leaders on the evening of the meeting. And I was saying that if we want to move forward in negotiations to prolong the emergency situation, we need to change the approach and parameters that the government has set up here, whether in terms of restrictions, but also in terms of aid and compensation. And I said it's very important for us to go through the versions of this bill amendment as senate because it helps people. I don't know what makes it any simpler, logical to explain that we're increasing to CZK 670 per day to a compensatory bonus, and we're giving the possibility to those who don't have an establishment and have been without a crown of income since October. What's easier for you to say to those people who are in a difficult situation to help. And we can't separate things from each other. And I said, if we want to talk about having support here to prolong the emergency, this is a necessary step that we're going to take together. I made that clear, transparently said on Tuesday. I told you the days before. And so, in order to give room to those negotiations, on Tuesday night, we took those two breaks so that we could sit down and act. I was ready to act late on Tuesday nights, evenings, so that Wednesdays we could come and say, we're gonna vote it out. We looked at last night's deal. Last night's vote on an emergency was held here, if I'm not mistaken, by 106 Members. So it was legally possible to pronounce the return if there was a political will that the government coalition would say: we want to help these people. But it wasn't. Even this result, as I mentioned here, that this amendment is here at all, is the result of the 2.5-month concentrated pressure on us, the opposition parties. You didn't do it on your own. I've heard a lot of reasons why I can't, including the financial ones. I heard that 160 kroner bonus increase per day is something the budget can't handle. And the government is going to go off on Monday and say, "We're great, we've figured out after four months that we're going to raise it to CZK 1,000 - but the government forgot to say that it's going to cut off other programs, so it's going to be less, as a result, the support. That's just sublime. But I'm trying to explain that it's really clear to the public how things were going this week, why it was like that, what the reasons were for it to be a chance of going through the Senate version. And as far as businessmen are concerned, as far as you're concerned, if you're concerned that these people have a chance to follow epidemiological measures, so that they won't be forced to be in a state that they may lose the last of their finances to support themselves, the families that they're in danger of losing their housing, then a reasonable Member must support this Senate return.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u17	I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. [[No one's checking in.]] So now I am definitely closing the debate and we will proceed to the vote under Section 90... [[Madam Secretary reporting.]] The final word? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. Well, Prime Minister Jurečka, you didn't prolong the emergency yesterday, so I'm sure you know that the compensation bonus is over. The compensation bonus is over. Yeah, when you guys are so worried about these people, like you're saying, "We're talking about these people in the first place, the businessmen, you voted yesterday and you said, "There's a compensation bonus for you!" [[Loudly, knocking on the speaker's counter. Then, a big round of applause, a call and a knock on the benches of YES Members, was applauded by President Radek Vondráček.]] But I say in my second breath, "Don't worry, businessmen, we have a novel prepared, he's going to the government on Monday. So let's talk straight, let's talk about it. It's not what you say, 160 kroner. You say backwards, it's $21 billion. I had it counted to the crown. In addition, technically very problematic. It's a helicopter money, basically everybody gets everything, and we have our experience from spring. So it's not exactly what you said. So we're preparing a novel, the novel hasn't passed the government yet. Now I dare to correct the senator, even though I respect her immensely, we sit across from each other in the Senate, always looking into the eyes. But she didn't pass the government, she's before settling comments at the Treasury Department. So far, these are the Ministry of Finance's proposals, my proposals, which I stand for, but it's possible there's going to be some modification. There will be a government on Monday, so if the members of the government say so, then it will come here. So it's not exactly like that. The government isn't suggesting anything yet. It's the Ministry of Finance's proposal. [[9.50 hours]] And now I dare to correct a few inaccuracies that would be said here, of a completely technical nature. The compensation bonus is exempt from all contributions from the point of view - but of course here it is meant that there is no remission of contributions as it was in the spring, because it is simply not possible to forgive contributions for certain segments of the economy. We didn't want to pass across, it's very difficult for the budget, and especially not everyone is affected by these restrictions. Partners with s. r. o. only pay health insurance, and pensioners don't pay any insurance, neither social nor health, so just to say exactly. A few more comments on Mrs Kovářová and why I cannot support, and I cannot, of course, it is up to you, but I frankly say: I do not support the Senate vomit. It is very budget-intensive, it is 21 billion from public budgets, so also from budgets of regions, cities and municipalities, it is technically impossible. In the amendment or the new bill that I'm going to submit to the government on Monday, and I'm going to propose a state of legislative emergency, it should come here on Thursday under preliminary agreements, so, of course, we're counting on compensation. I'm connected, or my colleagues, with the Union of Towns and Villages, I've been called by some of the captains, begging me not to convert compensation per head there, doing it in principle as it is in the RUD, but I suggest 80 percent. The Member says: The State chooses less, but the regions, cities and municipalities should be given more. I can't take my head. And the reserves that we're talking about here, about basically-- and we're gonna say it, and I'm still reminding you, in March, we're gonna have a briefing with the Prime Minister as soon as we get all the deadlines, and we're gonna figure out how this is going to work. It is the reserves that have been created there that have been created for these worse times and I am glad that they have them, these reserves that they can just afford to invest, they don't have to limit and in spring, notaben, I will not keep reminding you, in spring we compensated the municipalities for more than 100 percent, now I propose 80. Well, of course, we're in a situation, and they're your citizens, our citizens, which means why he couldn't be involved, so we can all be involved. And we say yes, we're going to compensate you for 80 percent, and it's going to be up to the government how it ends. Well, that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u20	Thank you and I'm sorry, two things. One, the first, brief, short, is my reservation on the procedure for Mr President. It is not customary for the House President to applaud for the statement made here by someone at the counter, Mr President. [[The disagreeable response of a part of the Members.]] That's the first thing. I think that the correctness of the negotiations is supposed to be exactly the same with all Members, no matter what you think about it, whether it's left or right, I really don't care. Second thing, to the Minister. Madam Secretary, please, don't lie on the air here. This isn't about handing out money in bulk. We respect your parameters, which you set in terms of which businessman according to the degree of hitting it can get. We're not changing the line. We raise the amount, the daily, and then we say, even those who don't have an establishment can get it, but the previous terms still apply. So it's not like you guys are saying it's gonna get everybody in the first wave. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u21	Thank you. Well, Mr. Chairman, you noticed early that I applaud here sometimes. [[The entertained response of a part of the Members.]] The last time I applauded was when my colleague Kalousek left, for example. I applaud here quite often. [[An application from the diaper.]] We have a closed debate. This is not a debate, Mr. Ambassador. We shall now proceed to the vote under paragraph... Final word, Senator, of course. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u22	One more time, and I'd like to get off here one last time. I'm asking too much to consider supporting the Senate's return. Now you have a lot of businessmen looking at you with cameras, but also mayors of cities, towns and mayors and county leaders, and they believe that you will find wisdom inside you, that you will not be perverted internally, and that you will try to correct what we have tried to do in the Senate. I ask you to do so as a longtime mayor of a small village. I know what I'm talking about, and we understand Madam Secretary's arguments. Maybe if I were in her place, I wouldn't be acting the same way, because the guardian of the state treasure, the state register, isn't an easy task, and there's a lot of hands out there. But we're really trying to fix what's been damaged and it's been realized. So once again, I'm very much intercede for all of you to support the Senate's return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u23	Thank you. Mr Válek, Mr Feri and Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes for this part of the assembly of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, Minister Robert Plaga apologizes for working reasons today, Minister Jan Blatný apologizes for working reasons today. We will now proceed to the vote under Section 97 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I have summoned my colleagues from the lobby and I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill'... there is a request for withdrawal, which I have just granted. Please sign up. So once again: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 461/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended by Act No. 584/20 Coll., according to the House press 1134/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 1134/3.' So I'm taking the vote. Who's up for the Senate version? Who's against it? Voting 328. 154 Members are enrolled, for 72, against 2. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill in this form. And now we will vote again under Rule 97 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, and for this resolution the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed, namely the agreement of 101 Members. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 461/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended by Act No. 584/2020 Coll., as amended by the Senate, according to the House's press 1134/4.' Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 329. 156 Members are registered, for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have adopted the bill. Thank you all, thank you, Senator, I am done with this point and with priority rights, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to enter an ongoing vote to stop this trial, but I'm still going back to the way you were running the meeting a few minutes ago. I would like to ask you to proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I did not object to the President's procedure, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you want to hold a discussion with Members, you should lead it properly as a party to the discussion, because at the moment when you are in charge of the meeting, you have a preferential right in your own way and you can enter the discussion at any time, and as a management meeting, you should, above all, manage the meeting and not present your personal views. So I would like to ask you for the future, if you would like to discuss it with the Members, join the debate and entrust the proceedings to someone else. Because otherwise, it's an abuse of the position of the management meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-001-500.u25	Good morning, honourable Members, Members of the Government. We'll continue as we modified the agenda for today's meeting. There's a point in front of us.
