ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u1	203. Disclaimer of Hana Lipovská from the Czech Television Council I ask that the appellant take the floor first, Mrs Olga Sommerová, who, if she agrees, will also become his rapporteur. So, please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u2	Mr President, colleagues, let me briefly quote the Czech Television Act, Section 5 para. 2: "A member of the Council shall not hold any office in political parties, political movements, civil associations or speak on their behalf for their benefit. " Ms Lipovská, a member of the Council from the beginning of the Czech Television Council, has been promoting a strong political view in the public area. It has already shown much of its activities before the engagement in the Free Bloc political movement, when it served as part of the Institute of Freedom and Democracy. Mrs Lipovská, together with Mrs Bobošíková, participated in the establishment of the Institute, is a member of the Board of Directors, author of articles and internet videos that the Institute prepares and spreads publicly. [[The noise in the hall.]] I'd like some peace, please. Thank you. Under the head of the Institute, Mrs Lipovská opposes other public institutions, is signed under the material about alleged security risks and events on Czech television and is also signed by a letter from Members of the European Parliament accusing the Senate and Minister of Culture of pressure on Czech television. [[pause]] Mrs Lipovská is now running as a leader -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u3	[[He's coming in.]] I'm going to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber because you can see that the lady is running out of breath. So... [[Mrs Sommer is turning to the President with an expression of opposition.]] I'm sorry, but... no, I didn't mean it wrong, I thought you had a problem shouting out to the House. So, please, calm down, calm down in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u4	I don't want to yell here, I don't have to talk if other people are having fun. Mrs Lipovská now appears as a leader in the Free Bloc movement for the Pardubice Region. I believe that this clear step has fulfilled the above paragraph of the law and has definitely lost its impartiality and independence. It is so clear that with its overall actions it violates the ban applicable to a member of the Czech Television Council under the Czech Television Act. And I ask the question: Who other than the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, i.e. the legislators, should heed the law?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u5	You may as well sit at the rapporteur's table, because if you have said yes to being a rapporteur, please. I am now initiating a general debate where I have priority rights... the chairman of the TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek Club is the first to report. Then they will be prepared - I have factual remarks here, but the debate has not even begun. I have five factual points here, I think there's been some mistake. Mr. Luzar, Mr. Ondráček, Mr. Grospič, Mr. Bláha, Mr. Volný. Can I erase it? That's probably from the previous debate. Yeah? But why is someone applying to the facts when the debate has not yet begun? That's weird. All right, I'll leave it there. They will therefore speak with the priority right of Mr Vlastimil Válek and then they will be given the opportunity to make those factual remarks because they have to respond to something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a little after 12:00, we don't have much time, which is why I suggest we limit the debate to this point to a maximum of twice 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u7	So, twice 10 minutes, yeah, we're gonna vote on it. I'm just gonna check out the facts, do Grospič, Bláha and Lubomír Volný? Are you applying to this point in fact? No, so I'm erasing Mr. Grospič. Ambassador Bláha not reporting to this point either? No. And Mr Lubomír Volný on this point in fact? No, no. Now we're going to vote, but we're not going to vote on the facts. Also, so I'll leave you to it. Now we have a proposal for two or ten minutes, so we're going to vote on it. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. Do I hear an application for a check-out? Yes, so I'm gonna check you out, and you're all gonna sign up with your voting cards again. Member Vlastimil Válek, Chairman of TOP 09, proposes to limit speaking time to twice 10 minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 158, registered by 94 Members, for 71, against 18. The motion was accepted. Now he will speak... on the verdict Lubomír Volný. Excuse me? That's right, because Válek MP has already stepped up once, so it's like a reaction, but it's for two minutes. Mr Jiří Valenta will then be prepared in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u8	I dare to respond to what has been said here. That is, of course, a farce for a political order. It is ridiculous and undignified to this House, however dignified I think this House has been in the last two years at least. However, Kohák Kohak, councilman of ČT 2001 to 2005, ran for the Czechoslovak Senate in 2004. If the CSSD raises its hand to appeal Hana Lipovská, they are hypocrites and liars. Petr Uhl, councilman of ČT 2003 to 2009, ran for the Greens for the Senate 2006. They're hypocrites, they're out of the House. Dana Makrlíková, Councillor and Vice-President of the Council of the Czech Republic from 2008 to 2014, ran for ODS for the Chamber of Deputies in 2013. Another club that runs in the event of an election for the title Hypocrite of the Year. [[12.10 hours]] Michal Stehlík - 2011, Councilman ČRo, 2016 is running for the Senate for KDU-ČSL. I don't know if they're gonna be gold, silver or bronze on the level of the hypocrites' winners. Vítězslav Jandák - Alderman 2017, 2020 ran for the Senate for YES. YES, which allowed this farce, maybe only gets a potato medal. Petr Žantovský - councilman ČTK, ran for SPD 2020. At the SPD today, nothing surprises at all after the second time the regional organizations have been shut down in many regions. So there wasn't a word about them, nobody called them off. Mrs Sommerová is simply a sunshine par excellence that bends the law, as she will be shown several times more during this debate as she pleases. I know the fight with the mob is futile because stealing 7 billion CTs and having political influence there is more important than equal spine and honesty, but I'm going to do everything I can to get as many people as possible to know what kind of hypocrites you are and who won my private hypocrite Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u9	Time. Mr. Jiří Valenta has the floor now. Mr Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, for my part, I believe that the proposal by my colleague Sommerová to appeal the Councilwoman of Czech Television, Hana Lipovská, is not only legally unfounded at the moment, but, in the direction of the necessary staffing of this body, particularly destructive. In this context, let us remember how the so-called right-wing opposition has long surrounded the House's democratic process of election to the Council, which clearly illustrates how virtually absolutely a minority in a democratic state can defend the expression of the free will of the majority. I understand that the opposition must have some instrument to express and disagree with the majority opinion, but don't be mad at me for eight hours at a meeting of so-called democratic clubs to end the House's day of meeting, it is not an instrument to express disapproval, but merely embarrassment, ridicule and respect for the citizens of this country. And it is completely indifferent that such a course of action is currently allowed by our Rules of Procedure. A personal dispute between Mrs Sommerová and Councilwoman Lipovská is now taking on unnecessary political intensity, and we need to address another attack on this monitoring body of Czech Television at a time when the Council of Czech Television lacks - especially because of the obstructions of its colleagues - already four members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is basically and especially about the Council of Czech Television being paralyzed as much as possible, not the continuation or withdrawal of Councillor Lipovská, at a time when huge criticism from many sides and from various social groups of our society is tolerated on Czech television. At this time, the Czech Television Council should work effectively and perhaps much more than before in favour of the independence, balance and objectivity of the largest public media in the country, as it is determined by the law. It must be clear to anyone who at least deals with the issue of public media that Mrs Sommerová may or may be extended by the hand of certain pressure groups, groups and individuals, directly or indirectly long-term sucked into television money channels. Often, this is a very wonderful drawing of money related, and it is currently at risk for about the most in the last two decades. I do not want to repeat here that my colleague Sommerová has since 2012 been the chair of the Czech Film and Television Federation FITES, an organization that makes its time a relentless claim to the possibility of occupying the seats of the members of the Czech Television Council, according to a bizarre proposal submitted by a group of Members from the Czech Social Democratic Republic, KDU-ČSL, the TOP 09 Club and the Mayors and the Dawn headed by the President of the Election Committee, Martin Komárek, a member of the ANO movement. For the citizens of this country, it was a great happiness that this proposal, which Mrs Sommerová directly supported, fell, otherwise instead of the Chamber of Deputies, the members of the Council would vote for well-chosen 22 organizations, such as various artistic and business associations or churches. It did not matter to the appellants at the time that, according to expert analyses, a large part of these organisations would be in a clear and verifiable conflict of interest. Even the government pointed out in its material that more than half of these organizations have commercial or strategic interests on Czech television. Moreover, the lobbyist amendment did not describe how it would have been done if one of the organizations had disappeared or disbanded. It was simply and only another attempt to take power in the Czech Television Council. Today, this attempt is being followed by another attempt to destroy the entire body of the Council, whose carrier is again Mrs Sommerová. I do not want to evaluate whether or not Mrs Lipovská, who was democratically elected by the House majority, is the right member of the Czech Television Council. I'm not one of her fierce sympathizers. I am neither a believer nor a supporter of her new electoral body, but I am particularly interested in maintaining the capacity of the Czech Television Council in the proper elections to this body here in the House. And then we can have legitimate discussions here, less or more justified, about the appeal of any member of the Czech Television Council. Some of the essential supporters and advocates of television management led by Director-General Dvořák in any event and at any cost such as colleague Sommerová should at this point at least be a little bit judicial, objective and firm to society, just as I and many others were then, when we did not demonstrate that we had also proposed the appeal of Councilman Šarapatka, who, in the opinion of many, deserved it even more. But we had to put up with it, even though we had a lot of requests, begging and urgent action, from citizens across our country. However, we have preferred that, in practically the only functional, in quotation marks, the functional, control body of Czech television, although some of us can think of its long-term effectiveness, not completely staffed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u11	I just wanted to explain to you, Mr. Martínek here warned me that I wasn't tracking you, but I didn't have an icon on the screen for 10 minutes, and now I got it from the IT department, so now you were under the impression that you were quitting, but you can talk for five more minutes if you want. [[I've already told you everything.]] I'd turn on five more minutes, but I already got 10 minutes of IT, so it's gonna be okay now. That's why I hesitated from the edge, wondering if I should count it twice or how it should be. Otherwise, those two 10 minutes are not included, for your information, factual remarks. Mr Blažek's point of fact, and then Mr Martínek will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. After the previous speech, first of all, I want to emphasise one formal thing. This is no longer Mrs Olga Sommerová's proposal, it is a proposal from the electoral committee, which means that this is something to be said. And now, by your means, when I begin to monitor the flow of the debate, milý Olga, you are not the first representative of Czech culture to do anything in Czech culture and which, unfortunately, must endure what awaits you for the next two hours. I just want to ask you not to give up on the entire Chamber of Deputies, and I, who had the opportunity to meet you here two months ago, just to tell you that by far we don't all have that opinion on you, and while your films are still showing in a hundred years, so many of the people who are attacking you today may not be talking about you in two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u13	Now I'll read two apologies. Mr Martin Kupka and Mr Antonín Staněk apologize for today's meeting from 13.15 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now Mr Tomáš Martínek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, although I consider the candidacy of independent members of media councils, whether Czech Television, Czech Radio or similar, to be problematic and it may prove to someone that this is a politicalization of the public media control body, this is not the main reason for me to appeal to Hana Lipovská. We've dealt with more law-abiding here a long time ago. I would like to bring here the reason which is crucial to me and which I think is a relatively exact violation of the Czech Television Act. Hana Lipovská, member of the Czech Television Council, sent part of the Czech Television Council members electronically to list their requests to the ČT Board Supervisory Board with the declared goal of obtaining from the ČT Programme History on request, broadcast 27. 1. 2020 in Czech Television, comparison of primary and continuous budget, detailed costs at invoice level, programme scenario, programme budget, complete shooting plan, work contracts with programme authors, list of internal and external orders, copies of tax documents when purchased for cash, fees, billing, invoices received, agreement on production and other documents on technical and legal provision of production. Jana Bobošíková, President of the Institute of Freedom and Democracy, where Lipovská works, is also an actress of the Lidice report. By the end of July 2020, Bobošíková and the chair of the Lidice branch of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union were now the Lidice Memory Association, where Lipovská has been operating since August 2020. Hana Lipovská is shown to be in conflict of interest as Councillor of Czech Television, co-founder of the Institute of Freedom and Democracy Jana Bobošíková, member of his board of directors, his analyst and member of the Lidice Memory Association. Breach of § 5 para. 2 of the Czech Television Act by Councilwoman Hana Lipovská took place especially in the programme Reporters of the Czech Republic entitled History at Wish. The interest of Lipovská about the detailed production and other costs of this programme was preceded by its confrontation over the content of the report with the editor of the publicist ČT Mgr Marek Wollner, Director of News PhDr Zdeněk Šámal at the meeting of the ČT 26 Council. 8. 2020 - see audio recording from the ČT 26 Council meeting. 8. 2020 on the ČT website. The appearance of Councillor Lipovská resulted from her confrontation and form of interrogation of these ČT employees with an illegal overlap of her inquiries into the purely internal agenda of the news and publicity editors of the ČT and completely outside the legal competence of the ČT Council member. In the broadcasts to the Lidice case, Lidice did not find fault with both the Radio and Television Council and the previous Czech Television Council and the Ethical Panel of the Czech Republic. Attack by Hana Lipovská on the content of the report on the classified Jewish victim reporting in Lidice at the ČT 26 Council meeting. 8. 2020 and retaliatory efforts to examine production costs on the part of the programme, which is critical of her colleague Jana Bobošíková from the Institute of Freedom and Democracy, the demonstration of conflict of interests of Councillor ČT Lipovský and the said Institute where Lipovská works, the Lidice branch of the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters, or Lidice Memory, is indisputable. At the meeting of ČT's Supervisory Board on 2 September 2020, Alderman Lipovská repeated her efforts to verify the costs of the report History on request. Present members of the ČT Council, namely President René Kühn and Councilman Martin Doktor, rejected its request on the spot as unacceptable and the Supervisory Commission did not provide the required information on the programme. I quote: "A member of the Council must not hold any office in political parties, political movements or civil associations, nor, in performing his duties in the ČT Council, act on their behalf or in favour of other group interests - strictly the Czech Television Act. [[Do you?]] Ing's effort. Hana Lipovská, D, on the misuse of the public office of a member of the Czech Television Council to obtain information from the Supervisory Commission and the retaliation of the costs of the report critical of a particular interest group, in which her co-worker, or in favour of ČSBS Lidice under the then management of Ing. Bobošíková, is an indisputable violation of Act No. 453/1991 Coll. The appeal from the public office of councilman ČT Lipovský is the only option possible response of the Chamber of Deputies to the fact that Hana Lipovská violated § 5 para. 2 of the Czech Television Act by misusing the position of a member of the ČT Board and trying to obtain internal information on the costs of the Czech Television programme critically dealing with the Lidice case, which included the Association of Freedom Fighters under the guidance of Jana Bobošíková and Bobošíková herself. Bobošíková is also president of another organization here, whose Hana Lipovská was a member of the Board of Directors at the time and continues to act as an analyst here. Bobošíková and Lipovská are members of the Lidice Memory Association together. This is therefore a justification that I would like to add or be regarded as a justification for the possible vote on the appeal of the member of the Czech Television Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u15	Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear and prepare Mr Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would also like to say a few words about this, because I have been expressing myself on this topic from the outset. I'm a member of the electoral committee, and I'm going to offer a slightly different point of view, however it may result in the same conclusion, but it would be good to hear it here. [[He's turning to the President.]] By the way, Mr President, I'm not running out of time. [[- Yes.]] Now that's it, I'm gonna go clean on him. Thank you. [[Fun in the hall.]] Firstly, I would like to say that whoever was involved in the public hearing remembers that Hana Lipovská was above one level - in answers, in responses. I have to say, I remember a whole bunch of my colleagues didn't know her, and then they started to notice her the moment some of the senators started to hunt her. There were even petitions made here so that no one would nominate her at all. Let me put it this way historically for the context of what we're talking about here. Then she got a strong mandate from 114 Members, which I think is probably the most in this parliamentary term that a member of the Council has won, but don't take my word for it, in any case it was more than the half, sometimes the votes were by two, by three, here it was totally sovereign. Yes, from the beginning Hana Lipovská went hard after what the councilman of Czech Television is supposed to do, simply control Czech TV, her activities, not just to go on breads, to stand there, to vote formally and leave. Even the way Hana Lipovská was chased, the camera, the one without the camera - I personally didn't like it. So all of this, what my previous speakers said here, is certainly no reason for me to appeal to Hana Lipovská, because if only people with the same opinion were on the Council, then they would not represent the citizens of the Czech Republic, which everyone has a different perspective and a different point of view on the functioning of Czech television. It changed for me personally at the moment when Hana Lipovská is running for political party, not as some pendant in tenth place, but as a leader. That means he's acting for the party, he's got to defend it, he's public and so on. And in that moment - for me - the independence is falling de facto. As far as de iure is concerned, as I said, even de iure doesn't agree with lawyers. After all, she herself said that it would not take place during that time at the Council or, respectively, will not vote there or will not receive a salary. Well, that's the main reason for that for me. And as my colleague here read the Volný Names, Kohák Kohak for Social Democracy, Petr Uhl for Green, Dana Makrlíková for ODS, Vítězslav Jandák for YES and so on, so believe me, I would do the same in this. Consistantly the same. And so here is my question of the opposition, which is very active in this - how would you behave or how would you behave if it were a member of your party? Would you be just as agile? That is what I would like to know and I would like someone to answer that because I think politicians value it when they are consistent and react like this, whether they are a political competitor or whether they are a member of his own party, and I will recall what Martin Kolovratník said on the electoral committee - he was, worked at the Czech Radio and the moment he ran, he resigned from his position on Czech Radio within a few days or weeks. So I'm just saying here as an example of how you can react. So I would like to ask if my colleagues who propose the appeal of Hana Lipovská - and I say, I will support it, I say it consistently from the start, but it leads me to a completely different reason, and at the same time I would like you to be consistent in performing, that when it came to your members, how you reacted. And while we're at it, with the Council, I'd like to remind you, because it goes with the content that part of this whole file is the endless obstruction of part of the opposition to allow the members of the Council. [[12.30 hours]] And I think it's worth reminding me now that the moment the opposition doesn't like something, he's gonna come whining here. At the moment that they themselves use the Rules of Procedure to accumulate a pause, when they accumulated it, I stopped counting it when it was about 18 hours pause, which were still overnight, so it is okay to use the Rules of Procedure. Let me just remind you that we didn't allow four councillors to be blamed for the opposition. We now have the fifth nomination if Hana Lipovská, sixth, is called off. That advice is basically not gonna work. To the opponents who may be the next coalition, I will remind them to be consistent, that then again the future opposition can complete it in the same way. And you have started a state here, where basically no one needs to be elected to the Czech Television Council ever again. No one ever, because we can all take those breaks forever after that. I'm just saying this here so we know the context of the whole thing, and it wasn't just about chasing Hana Lipovská. It would also be worth recalling how suddenly part of the opposition is beginning to assess the proposing institutions. For ten years, institutions have been designing their nominations here. Nobody cared because they went through your quotes right. The moment the good guys don't go through, the proposing institutions are gonna start chasing if they're even worthy of suggesting anybody here. And I also think it's not good, and I'm wondering if you're gonna do it the moment those who are your favorites are going through. I think all of this is in the context of what we're discussing here. I will repeat again, as I said, the appeal - and I said it from the beginning, the political commitment - I will support it, however, it is necessary to know the whole context of what is going on about it, that the world is not really black and white, the way you paint it for us here, and that if you do not get together in any way, then the Czech Television Council will not work. There'll be six members missing. It would be good for the citizens to know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u17	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček has now made a point of fact and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to intervene in this debate or in this dispute, but I do have a bit of a response to Mr Patrik Nacher's colleague, through Mr President, when he, on the one hand, says that he is okay with something and that he does not mind that Mrs Lipavská is running, but that the problem is that she is running in the lead of the candidate. [[right Lipovská]] And for me, it's important -- or even in the first place, I don't care about the candidate as a leader maybe, I don't know, I don't care about the Free Block or whatever the political entity is called -- but that surprises me. Because if something is to be forbidden or not allowed, it doesn't matter if it's in 15th place or 21st place or 1st place. And I really don't care. I only have to ask if the fact that Mrs Lipavská is running, or if she is demonstrating any other activity, is contrary to the law. And if it's against the law, then I'd like to see some legal study of someone saying, "Yes, councilwoman, or whatever the name is, lipavský is already against the law, and then there's nothing to discuss, then she should be called off. But if we are to decide here on the basis of any political conviction whether or not we like Mrs Lipavská and we like her activity in the control of Czech Television, I think that is just a political decision. Only a political decision! And for me, it really doesn't matter whether it's the 1st or the 19th place of any subject's candidate. And it was mentioned here that our former fellow Members, or other known figures, worked in some positions of these audit bodies, and at the same time ran either for the Chamber of Deputies or for the Senate. So what I'm saying for myself is, I'm not voting for her appeal because until I see a violation of the law, I don't see why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact, Mr Milan Feranec. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u20	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what my colleague Ondráček said. For me the candidacy for any political party is the ultimate political engagement. That's right. I mean, if political parties apply their constituents' views, that's the candidacy, that's it. If that's the way it is in the law, and according to common sense, it really is. As for Mrs Lipovská, the choice was secret. I voted for her and I'm not ashamed of it, but today I'm gonna raise my hand for her appeal because it really is and if it's against the letter, but it's definitely against the spirit of the law. And it's a fall for who. It doesn't matter if it's Free Block or if it's for us. I really think this is contrary to the spirit of the law, with common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u21	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now respond with a factual point and Mr Aleš Juchelka will also be prepared for the factual remark. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u22	One more time. I'm sorry, you see, I'm completely out of the question. I say Mrs. Lipavská, she's Mrs. Lipovská, so I'm sorry about the microphone, because I don't even know this person, I'm never with him... So, Mrs. Lipovská, which I'm talking about. And to the foreman now, what he said here, I don't know the spirit of the law. There's some reason message, there's something written, there we can talk about what the legislator meant, but the spirit of the law, it's some new one for me. The legal term we use here is to me the sections, articles and so on. I just don't know the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u23	Mr Aleš Juchelka will now make a point of fact and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Still factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u24	Thank you very much. I'll just say, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, what I've seen, what I've been through. I was chairing the electoral committee, where the item of the programme proposed by Mrs Sommerová just happened, and for me, de facto, the litmus paper was that Mrs Hana LipovskLipovská's presence on the electoral committee was pouring herself into those two positions, and that is the politician who came there for the Free Block without a drape, without respecting any government regulations. I felt that instead of being the one defending the Czech Television's management reports and activities as a councilwoman, there is more as a politician for the Free Block, because she didn't even come to the committee itself to make sure that the councilman was there in some way. For me, that was the litmus paper of this mixing, which was mentioned by a colleague of yours, Feranec, in the spirit of the law. At the same time, I really still insist that basic democratic value is being violated here, and these are free elections, from among the opposition, which block completely embarrassingly with its breaks the Czech Television Council. I also want to say that I absolutely disagree with the political prosecution that has been said here not only on the committee, but also here on the microphone from Mrs Sommerová's mouth, because what she said, we are actually coming back before 1989, when people were thrown out of work for political views, when they were fired as artists from various projects. And at this point, unfortunately, we're going back to this rhetoric, and maybe we're going back to that in a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u25	Mr Jiří Bláha will now make a point of fact, so far the last one. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the words that have just been said here at the end. This means that I have lived through communism since 1961 and have slowly seen what it means to have a party book or not to have a party book. A lot of colleagues have always been put forward that you don't have the right dot, so there's something you can't do. Of course, we learned to live at the time without having the dots. But we got to the time when actually, and I'm going to tie it up: by the time the time was over, it sounded like passwords We're not like them! We're not like them! And we're actually going back. We're starting to separate people. [[12.40 hours]] And I just want to say: I don't know anything about the case, I don't know if the aforementioned lady is using her position as a candidate for any party in the Czech Television Council, but all I'm saying is that at the moment that she doesn't, we're starting to behave exactly the same way, and we should be wondering if the laws we have made, if the rules we have made, if it's right, if it shouldn't be so, when you're doing some kind of function, you can't, but if you're running and not affecting politically something... And we can still say that in quotation marks, which of the board members, or also the management of television, who is not officially a member or candidate, really doesn't sympathize with any party? How do you know? We all have our own free will. And that means that if I am - and now don't take me at my word - for example a member of the ODS, that doesn't mean that when it comes to voting, it has to vote, does it? [[Time.]] Because maybe another side will convince me. So I'd think about this and go that way... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] A little bit of work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u27	I beg you to keep your time. One or two sentences is fine, but this has been many sentences. prosit, Mr Lubomír Volný is now making a point of fact. Last application so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u28	Through you, to a colleague of yours, Juchelek. I'll take it from the right. [[The speaker looks around the O.R.]] TOP 09 doesn't have drapes. ODS under your nose. They don't have drapes. Pirates under the nose. SPD doesn't have drapes. Yes, under the nose. [[Some Members quickly stretch their masks and respirators to their noses.]] Guys, don't fix this anymore. The ČSSD - I'll look here - they're okay. Comrades - beautiful - red suits you. [[KSČM Member Matusovská and Aulická Jírovcová have red respirators.]] Thank you. And you took advantage of the fact that there were people who had the same political attitude as the drapes that I just named from the right to the left spectrum, and you ran cowardly from the negotiating room where Mrs. Hana Lipovská was. She was just there. She did not put on a drape as her civic attitude and was ready to negotiate. You cowardly ran away. First, you wanted to turn the police on us. You even turned it off so everyone would know, they turned off the footage again so no one could see the police pulling us off. But fortunately there was one phone, one live transmission, so the Police of the Czech Republic simply withdrew and left and disobeyed this illegal regulation. Then what happened? Then, when you cowardly fled, you didn't tell us where you were cowardly, nor did Mrs. Hana Lipovská tell us where you were. You didn't send her a message. Show evidence as members of the electoral committee that you have alerted her to the room in which the meeting is taking place. You didn't, you didn't send her anything. We had to sniff you out because you hid from us. And when the public wanted to enter that room, you didn't illegally let the public in the room, even though it's public law, and you have to announce first that you're going to vote on non-public relations, then you're going to vote, and then you're going to report it to the public. You took advantage of a poor cop who broke the law and didn't let the public in. You didn't actually allow Mrs Lipovská to participate in anything because you are cowards and have broken the law several times. That's just the way it is. And today, the Prime Minister sits here, doesn't remind anyone or disinfect himself. [[Time.]] But you guys pulled out the drapes as an argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u29	Now I'm going to read the apologies, it's accumulated. Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes between 12.45 and 23.45 until the end of the day. Well, you see, there's been some kind of long-term prediction here. Jiří Kobza apologizes 14.05 to 23.50 for work reasons. Mr Marek Výborný apologies from 12.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And Minister Jan Hamáček simply apologizes for work reasons for today's meeting. So now a factual point - I have three in order: Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Marian Bojko. Aleš Juchelka has the floor. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u30	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Government regulations are government regulations, and I think that every chairman of any committee should protect all those who take part in this committee, including the public, because none of us, neither you nor I, are an epidemiologist, any expert on the spread of various viruses. That is why we must trust what is presented and what the government will somehow approve on the basis of the recommendations of these experts. That is why my only way was if these regulations were not followed here, to protect other people who were there within the public. It wasn't targeted at all... If they put on their drapes, it's totally fine. Of course, we have acted several times under great public pressure. Nothing's happening at all. Everything would be fine if you obeyed the government's orders and de facto took care of health security measures in some way. This was not the case, so there had to be another alternative, and I, as chairman of the committee, had to ask my fellow Members in some way to vote non-public negotiations for this very reason to protect the health of fellow citizens. So I guess it's just about the committee. And the fact that Mrs Lipovská, like everyone else, has certainly been alerted to the fact that she is sitting somewhere else, because she was part of the meeting that they moved, is in charge of the secretary of the committee, who must have sent her a text, as well as all those who have been duly logged in and who have been present at the meeting of the electoral committee. That's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u31	Yes. Mr Patrik Nacher will now make a point of fact and Mr Marian Bojko will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u32	Thank you. Well, I was there, so I know how it happened. I have to stand up for my colleague Juchelka, who presided over the committee. He, my colleague, has warned you and all the fans of the Free Bloc several times to put on your drapes. I can think of these measures as well. I follow them. There it is in a small room to imagine it, a large number of people. It's either respectable or not. In the event that it is not, all that remains for the President is to interrupt and resolve it in some other way. No police intervention or anything like that was being prepared. It just changed the room, moved there. We've all been given information on where this meeting is going to be. And that's where I think, and Aleš Juchelka said it exactly, that's where I think the double roll just showed up. Unfortunately, I have to say it here, unfortunately. That's where the councilman's double roll and the candidate showed up. Because either this person acts like a councilman, so he sits next to Pavel Matocha and comes to our meeting, wears a drape and defends reports of the management, the activities of Czech Television, or sits next to you and your fans with flags, but then he represents the subject, not the councilman. That means, that's where it turned out, I'm afraid, in full nudity on the air, and I think everyone got the information. Everyone was involved. After all, you're not a member and you've come along, so you've obviously learned in some way, including all the supporters who were there on the stairwell around. That means it wasn't some secret information, I can't imagine. So much for the election committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u33	Mr Marian Bojko will now make a point of fact and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u34	Thank you. There's no way that Mr. Juchelka here answered whether Mrs. Lipovská got the information on where the replacement meeting was going to take place, and I'm absolutely convinced that you guys had already done it in advance, and you knew that we weren't going to go in there without a mask, that we wouldn't take it off, of course. [[Aren't we gonna put it on?]] And I'm a government order that's been swept away 38 times... If they told you you'd be dating one finger in the ass and the other one in the nose, you'd be doing it? Not me, no way. So you knew you were gonna move it somewhere else. You didn't let me know. And if people hadn't sniffed you out, we wouldn't have known. We asked the people, the police, we asked the staff here where the meeting was. If someone wasn't really following you, we wouldn't know. And the other thing is this. It wasn't Mr. Director Dvořák in the first room, but he was already in the second room. He was sitting... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I saw him there. The director of Czech Television Dvořák was in the other room. I was sitting next to him. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, where did you move to a meeting in '32 or wherever it was? So why didn't he come into the first room? He wasn't there. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] He wasn't just there. It doesn't matter. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] He wasn't there. When we got to the first room, he wasn't there. He sat all the way upstairs. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I didn't see him there. Well, in that case, I'm sorry. I saw him upstairs, sitting next to him. [[12.50 hours]] Anyway, it's interesting that Mrs Lipovská didn't get the information on where the replacement event was taking place. So it's very strange, and I'm convinced that you had it ready in advance because you knew that we wouldn't put on any drapes. So for me, it's just a joke, and it was just a scam for Mrs. Lipovská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u35	Mr Jiří Bláha will now make a point of fact. Mr. Jiř Blá, on a point of fact. Perhaps I would just ask the Members to speak on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I must smile at the game both sides are playing. One side wants to show that it walks without a drape: Look, we can do it, walk without a drape, and the other side says: You have to follow something. Why don't you go backstage? Go see any conference, go see how we Members backstage and so on and so forth have fun. It's just funny what we're playing here. Let's stop playing and figure out what we're up to. Let's figure out what we're trying to do, so these things have the right shape, the right idea, and the right direction. And if anybody's wearing a drape or not, let's just figure it out, but let's stop taking advantage of it. It's just ridiculous for me. And those people don't know who's out there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u37	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, on the point of fact. [[A loud dispute between Mr Bláha and Mr Bunny off the microphone.]] Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u38	Thank you, Mr President. This is a very interesting debate, because Members from one political entity are already attacking each other, and maybe they will take a slacker off the cameras, in the words of Mr Volný. But I have to say, I don't really care, although I may be a little sorry that I was on that baggallery called the election committee, or what it was like, because it might have been interesting, but I don't really care how it went or what it was there and who knew or didn't know about what it was. It's interesting how you can say this here, but at least you'll find out again how you can meet such a committee. With us on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, it is sometimes very conservative and on the Security Committee, where we usually deal with such technical matters. It's definitely my experience. I'd rather put it back, because I still didn't get the answer, or if anyone was able to give it to me, now I mean the analysis. My colleague gave me some of the restrictions that are for councillors, members of the Czech Television Council, and it says that he must not, "Being in political parties, political movements or civil associations, nor may he appear on their behalf or act in their favour in the performance of his duties on the Council's behalf" - did it happen, please? "Get off or work for other group interests" - didn't it? When? "To look at mass media business" - does the councilwoman do so? "Represent commercial interests which could be contrary to the performance of its function or could jeopardise confidence in the independence or impartiality of its decision-making" - did not it happen? And "representing on Czech television a function other than the function of councillor or performing an occupation on Czech Television, nor does it have to have income on Czech Television other than the remuneration of the councilman, or income from the use of the subject of protection under copyright law". They say the same applies to loved ones. [[Time!]] So if anyone gives me an answer, I'd be very happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u39	Now a factual point, Mr Lubomír Volný, so far the last application. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u40	I would not have expressed myself here for so long if, by your means, Mr President, Mr Juchelka, had not started lying and attacking Mrs Lipovská, who made it impossible for him to take part in the committee's proceedings. However, Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President, did not initially wear a drape on the committee, a recipient of several awards from Communist governments, such as the German Democratic Republic or the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, a thank you from ministers and so on. She wasn't wearing it herself. It's documented on our video footage. It wasn't put on by other people on that committee. And here I say again: the top doesn't have a drape, the notation doesn't have a drape, the SPD doesn't have a drape, the boys here have it under their noses, sometimes you wear it, sometimes you don't wear it. We all know, just like Mr. Bláha said, it's one big theater. And it doesn't bother you here that your colleagues are also in a small space, because if we count the square meters to 200 meters, it's going to be similar to that committee. [[persons?]] So you're okay with this place putting you in terrible danger? How come you didn't get up and say you wouldn't act until everyone followed the law? That's where you did it. It was just a political reason for you to run somewhere else. You ran somewhere else, and part of your plan was that you wouldn't tell Mrs Lipovská where it was because Mrs Lipovská called the committee, and the committee employee told her that she didn't know where it was. She called. Do you have any proof? Do you have a text, e-mail, confirmation, a phone call, anything that you told her where it was? And when did you agree where it would be? In the meantime, wasn't there another meeting under the Rules of Procedure? Wasn't it supposed to be another meeting when you agreed it would be somewhere else? Do you have the minutes of the meeting? Do you have anyone present? Who was there from the public? Do you have a voting protocol when you decided that this meeting would take place somewhere else? And do you have any proof that you told Mrs. Lipovská where it would be? Well, you don't, because you didn't tell her!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u41	Time! Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u42	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, to the Volný Member. Mr. Ambassador, I really don't care which one of them has the drape or doesn't have the drape, as well as who had it at the meeting of your committee, which took place as it was done and moved. If you think it was another meeting then, and there are new papers that should be signed, sheets and so on, let somebody deal with it, but I'd like to put it back into the essence of the matter. Did Councilwoman Lipovská break what the law says that a member of the Czech Television Council is not allowed to do? If so, if you were to me - there are the five points I have read that my colleague gave me, it was an organization such as State Reconstruction, so I believe that this is a very trusting organization on your part - so if anyone can answer me how she violated them so that I can make a qualified decision on how to vote. And I suppose that choice or appeal will also be a secret form of her choice. So please, let's get back to the matter so we know what this guy did and if there's any reason to call him off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u43	Now one more factual point, so Mrs Olga Sommerová. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u44	Hello. I'd like to answer the foreman here. Yes, Mrs Lipovská broke the Czech Television Act by acting in favour of the political movement, and she is banned as a member of the Czech Television Council. It works in favor. He doesn't have to be a member, he doesn't have to be a member. And one more comment about the election committee meeting. Mrs Lipovská was invited properly to a proper meeting of the electoral committee. She had 20 minutes to put on a drape. She preferred her unringed ideology to being present at the hearing of her appeal or appeal or appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u45	Now two factual points, Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u46	Let's do it again. This is a purely ideological view here, Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President, because mere candidacy is not an action for the benefit of the party. In the past, they all ran, so I assume they participated in election campaigns and acted privately as individuals in favour of the party, which means they said to their friends: Choose me, circle me, we are excellent and so on. This law doesn't count on that. The legislator does not count on it, she must not work in the performance of her duties for the benefit of any political party or political movement. [[13.00 hours]] This is simply a purposeful distortion of the law, as you wish, because you want to deal with a person who wants to arrest a tip from the billion-dollar mob who, in various ways, subsidizes the very kind of directors who make films that nobody really cares about. That's just how it works here. The mafia, which is sucked up to 7 billion a year, the mafia, which is attached politically to Czech television, because Czech TV is not objective, does not give information about different opinions, did not invite Professor Beran on TV, did not invite Professor Turánek on Czech television, did not invite them to TV - Mariánka, PCR tests, please - Professor Žďárský, to explain to the citizens that they could have PCR tests not for 1,200 but for 50 crowns. They didn't invite Mr. Beran to explain to them how effective Isoprinosine is against COVID-19, they didn't invite Professor Turánek to explain to them that if they were infected, poisoned by mRNA with the vaccine, so the mRNA, gene therapy is streaming through their bodies right now, and settles on all possible organs, including the brain, including reproductive organs, and if those women are pregnant, so on their placenta, thereby endangering the healthy development of the child. They weren't invited there, and you're protecting these people because Mrs. Lipovská is successfully fighting these people. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u47	I'll read the apologies. Mr. Jiří Mihola apologizes today because of illness, and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip apologizes between 13.15 and the end of the day. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček, will now make the final application to the factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u48	Thank you. So, you see, repeating the mother of wisdom. I am glad to repeat it twice to be told what we see breaking the law by the councilwoman, a member of the Czech Television Council, so I finally learned the information. I thank my colleague Sommerová for the information that it is therefore seen as working or acting in favour of a political entity or someone like that. Of course... it's important for me to know that information again. Who decided it was working, whether it was just the political decision of the committee, the electoral committee, or who decided it was, because I remember a few months ago when we were dealing with something similar with fellow Pirates, when their, I don't know, advisors, expert advisors, I don't know what to call it, simply a man serving the police with rank designation council, i.e. in rank council, in rank lieutenant colonel, for them he processed some activities for them, which is also contrary to the law, this time no. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the security forces, and there it was dealt with for several weeks, perhaps even months. I don't know what the outcome was, but I don't know what the pirát would know, but I think the result was so that it was assessed that his activities as cops were contrary to the service law, but I don't know what followed the verdict or sanctions, whether he was reassigned or simply what happened. I don't know. That's what colleagues would have to say. So I'm glad to learn what the main reason is for the five points I've read here. This means that the councilwoman is in favour of a political entity. Well, if you're running, you have to do some work, because you have to act completely independent, even if you're not a party, even if you're something, it's not possible, and you're always holding some kind of political opinion, or political program for which you're running. Then of course, if you're in the right place, you probably have to say it more often than when you're in the 15th place. But thank you for finally finding out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u49	Now a factual remark, Mr Lubomír Volný, and Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u50	I just want to make it clear that someone here is acting purposefully, because there's no precedent, nothing, so I'm going to quote from public sources, iDNES and so on. The law does not introduce the incompatibility of the ČT Council's office with the nomination for membership. This is for you, Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President. It is not even possible to use an analogy because the Czech Television Act is a public law regulation, which excludes the application of this interpretation. The fact that Hana Lipovská is running is therefore not against the law. He explained for iDNES.cz the lawyer Aleš Rozehnal, who is also the author of the book Media Law. Even the second address, the legal address of the editors of iDNES does not think that the stay of Lipovská in the ČT Council during the candidacy is illegal, simply because the law does not directly rule out the candidacy in elections. It is not against Czech legislation. Only at the time of the election would she have got into a collision with the Czech Television Act, said František Vyskočil from the law firm Vyskočil, Krošlák and partners. I would - so that we can end this right now, because otherwise we will be here for real hours and hours in vain - I would like from Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President, whether you have some legal analysis and whose legal analysis, or some judgment, or any... anything in the past that would support your opinion. Do you have a legal opinion? I wonder how you got it. You have merely mentioned your impressions here, and you haven't given any analysis, you haven't given any opinion, you haven't given any judgment, you haven't given any decision to the Chamber of Deputies in the past. You just want to call off a guy who's stepping on your money line, because you're also addicted to the ČT money line in some way as a creator, and you just want to help your friends who fill your money line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u51	Now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip on a factual, so far final application for a factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u52	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen. I'll be brief. Petr Štěpánek, former councilman, I think for the ODS, when it was still the right for political parties to propose to the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council and the Radio and Television Council, wrote a very good legal opinion on whether or not the candidacy for a political party with a position in the Czech Television Council or elsewhere. Of course it is not, nor can it be, because the right to vote and the right to be elected is a constitutional right in Article 19. Even the legislature cannot limit the right of someone to run, therefore it cannot be in the Czech Television Act, and the interpretation that the candidacy itself is in conflict with the right to be a councilman is unconstitutional. Article 19 Constitution of the Czech Republic. Please, let us discuss this as legislators, not as politicians who have a few days before the election. This is my message to this debate, which is completely pointless and contradicts what we have agreed or not agreed, because the ban on four councilmen is what is burdening the Chamber of Deputies here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u53	Mr Václav Klaus will now appear in the general debate and prepare Mr Marian Bojko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u54	Hello. I didn't expect to get off today, so I'm gonna get off here for the last time, for the last time in this parliamentary term and even in my life, so I've decided to speak again. I'm not a tease, but Mrs. Sommerová's been sitting next to me the whole time without a drape, so now I find it a little comical to put it on. I would advise her fatherly to take it off, too, because it will be easier to speak and not to breathe so much. Now, get to the point. This debate is symptomatic for the Czech Republic. Her crap, her hypocrisy and everything else, and her unsolved nature. What are we here for? We have a state organization with a seven-billion-dollar budget, we're forcing people to pay a TV tax, and it would be perfectly logical to ask questions, what do we want in return? What are we ordering? Is it public golf, or is it children's work? Or is it a terrible problem in the Czech Republic that you won't hear the news when it's a tornado that you have to have a state television or a radio for it? So this would be legitimate debate. How much is it worth, what are we ordering for, and I'm not opposed to high-quality movies like the movie club used to be, serious music that isn't commercially viable, sports handicapped and so on. I understand that private entities are not going to broadcast this, and we can decide that the state is ordering it for a penny of money. [[13.10 hours]] We of this, of these serious debates, but we do nothing. We do hypocritical tricks here, because logically Members, or citizens, through MEPs influence Czech TV, it is not a private subject, or we are introducing some intermediate level where the more cunning pretends to be completely independent, such a bit more naive sometimes flashes somewhere, but that is absolutely comical. And this is how we treat energy, which is before the collapse, inflation, and the waste of state resources, and even the issue of Czech television. I would have expected the ODS as a right-wing party to defend as many private entities as possible and that we do not need as much state. Nothing, huh? On the other hand, I would understand that they want everything to be state, and they're supposed to be on vacation for 17 weeks and all this nonsense. O.K., that's a political clash, but none of this is happening here, and it's a completely comical debate about who wore a drape, didn't have a drape and one councilwoman. I have no interest in it, they're criticizing me enough with Mrs Bobošíková, but, on the other hand, as a citizen - did you ever know any councilman of Czech Television who ate bread there, took the money and nod all that management? Now, finally, there is one, two, three councillors who sometimes point something out, whether quite right or slightly wrong, and do the role of control. And that's what some of the psychics get out of here. But the main thing is really - let's talk about merit, how much it costs, how much programs we need. We need - I don't know - the state Internet and the state paper to start some more, okay, so that the citizens have some proper information? We don't have that either. So what's this Czech TV and radio for, what do we want from it? I don't mean hypercritically, I often watch Czech TV, it has a number of quality programs, and even there aren't all criminals in the news. But on the other hand, really people are gonna take the phone now, they have online messages, it's not what it was like to wait until 7:30 to let people know what happened. So the debate is completely legitimate, but no one is leading it here in the Czech Republic. The kind of group that gets commercial interests out of it, so she's mainly concerned that no one gets into it, somebody's overly critical of it, but we're not having the basic thing. And that's kind of a legacy of what's been going on here for the last four years. I'm gonna say a few more words here to the biggest political party. You know, the fact that the other four, five Council members are not allowed to be critical and less emotionally calm than Councilman Lipovská, that's a bit of your fault and your Chairman Babiš, because you always screw up. Most of it was here, and you didn't want it. You'd rather wait and move. So it's the Czech politics that these pirát go to Brussels like they do, and you go there like this, but you're more or less gonna get to all these things in the end, and here you vote them out. That's what you could see with the senate chutes. So now I'd say to Patrik and the others, well, don't cry on that grave, yeah, when they chase you in the public media after the election, if you lose or you don't have a majority, you can do it on your own, but that statement about the state of what we're looking for here is really so crappy. I can't think of anything in particular to end up positive, but good day to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u55	Mr Marian Bojko will now speak in the general debate. It's logged in twice, so twice 10 minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u56	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that here, when I entered the House four years ago, I almost got down on my knees here, what kind of shrine is this, and I realized that there are people in my former mining rescue profession different from here. There looked into the eyes, the handshake was binding. You shake someone's hand here and they stab you in the back. So about what I think of the Honorable House. As far as the Hana Lipovská case is concerned, here you are, when it's possible, you are, you are, you are, you are not, you are not going to allow the Czech Television Council. You're all involved, all of you, because you all want to be on that TV. You all want your faces on that TV. Public law, that's for sure, so you're hypocrites. That's where it was when church restitutions were dealt with, so it was a week. That was obstruction, and you showed who you are again. No one's been wondering here all week if anyone's been talking for a day, two, three, but this point shows up, and you've cut back on our speech, you've put our muzzles back on. That's evidence of something. So the Czech Television Council is the body by which the public's right to control the activities of Czech Television is exercised. The Council of Czech Television and its activities are therefore defined by law as the intersection of civil society and the will of the people. It is elected by the Chamber of Deputies and its task is to represent the public and implement the Czech Television Act. The Czech Television Council therefore does not defend the interests of either Czech Television or its employees, including the CEO and management, or the creators. According to the Czech Television Act, it is the responsibility of the Czech Television Council to control the efficient and economical use of Czech Television's financial resources and assets, to approve the Czech Television's budget, an overview of claims, commitments and financial statements of Czech Television. As the Supreme Audit Office states, the only person who can control the management of Czech Television with its own property is the Czech Television Council. The Supreme Audit Office may only control the management of television charges, either from its own decision or if the Chamber of Deputies or one of its institutions so requests. The Czech Television Council itself cannot apply for SAO control. However, if the Czech Television Council does not exercise control under the Czech Television Act, it may be withdrawn by the Chamber of Deputies. It's logical. Czech television operates with nearly 6 billion crowns of concessionaire money. Another 1.1 billion crowns do not come from television fees, which corresponds to the volume of a number of chapters of the state budget. It is not the funds of management, employees, creators, but citizens' money. Although the scope and responsibilities of the Council of Czech Television in the area of economics are very extensive, the legislator apparently assumed the cooperation of management with the Council of Czech Television according to the principle of bona fides. It did not equip the Council with precisely defined instruments and powers that would allow it access to information on management at a time when management does not want to cooperate and resort to obstructions with reference to the literal diction of the law. An example is the rejection of requests from members of the Czech Television Council to provide the conclusion of an internal audit report on real estate management and accounting. According to information from the Director General, unsolved property relations for some properties have been revealed in the use of Czech Television. In this context, the Council requested the provision of a full report in order to be responsible for checking whether the management of Czech Television is accessing real estate with proper care, in all aspects, both financial and legal. This requirement was the response of some members of the Czech Television Council to the need for a quick purchase of land on which the building of the Czech Television studio in Ostrava is located, at a price significantly higher than the expert estimate. The problem with the land was known on Czech Television for at least 10 years, but it was not solved. The Director-General, however, refused to get acquainted with the conclusions of the report to the Council of Czech Television other than on the basis of the resolution, even through the Supervisory Commission. Until the beginning of this year, the Czech Television Council had to rely exclusively on the report on Czech Television's management, the budget of Czech Television and the long-term plans for the programme, technical, personnel and economic development of Czech Television. There was therefore a paradoxical situation where the law imposes an obligation on the Council of Czech Television to control its management, but it does not give it access to internal accounting documents except for the establishment of the Supervisory Board. [[13.20 hours]] Within the framework of the approval of the budget for 2021, the Czech Television Council therefore adopted a resolution imposing on the Supervisory Commission to require the Director-General of Czech Television to send a regular monthly report on the Czech Television's management and, at the same time, that the Supervisory Board submit once a month the audit conclusions of the monthly reporting in question. This instrument has been available to the Czech Radio Council through its Supervisory Commission for a long time. The Supervisory Commission's reporting should provide the Council with information on the financial condition of Czech Television. At present, however, the Council does not have longer time series available so that it can compare the first fragmentary data with past developments and place them in context. It will be possible to make full use of this instrument, especially in the coming years. For the time being, the Council has the opportunity to monitor the expenditure of Czech Television on the basis of public registers. Unfortunately, contracts published in the register of contracts, given the degree of blackout, ask more questions than answers. They do not allow to monitor the development of cash flow in the context, while the funds of Czech Television have fallen by 79 percent over the last 10 years, the development of claims and liabilities, and certainly not the effectiveness of the use of funds. In the end, the rada remains to be trusted by an auditor who, according to the approved annual management report, has been issued without reservations. This report states that the accounts for 2019 have been audited by the independent audit firm Ernst & Young Audit, s. r. o. And here is the problem that the ČT knows about, but does not inform the ČT Council despite repeated challenges about its solution. The problem is serious doubt about the independence of the auditor. The term independence is defined in § 14 para. 2 of Act No. 93/2009 Coll., on auditors. It is considered that an auditor cannot be considered independent of an entity if, firstly, there is any financial or commercial relationship or other contractual relationship, including the provision of non-audit services between him or the persons forming the network and the entity, (b) there would be an audit of the entity's own services when carrying out the statutory audit, or there would be an interest in the outcome of the statutory audit in the performance of the entity's statutory audit. The financial statements of Czech Television are audited by Ernst & Young Audit, s. r. o. starting with the annual report on the management of Czech Television in 2012. The independent auditor's report is signed each year by EY's leading partner in the Czech Republic, Mrs Magdaléna Souček. Ms. Magdaléna Souček is an executive at Ernst & Young Audit, s. r. o., which audites ČT, as well as Ernst & Young, s. r. o., which concluded on 24 February 2020 a cooperation agreement with the Czech Television in the production of the programme. This contract is significantly blackened, however, it can be estimated that it is a contract for the production of the ceremonial gala evening of the Ernst & Young Award. At the beginning of the gala she welcomed guests of Magdaléna Souček. During the course, Petr Dvořák, CEO of Czech Television, presented the Czech Television Award for the business contribution of culture and art, which was also held in the jury of the Czech Television Award. Czech TV is not only a patron of the prize for four years, but also the main media partner of the competition. Director General of Czech Television... [[He's looking around the O.R.]] No one sits here, not the Minister, not the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u57	Time. You're running out of time. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes between 13.15 and 14.00 until the end of the day, family reasons. Mr Jiří Kohoutek also apologizes for yesterday's meeting from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and for today's meeting, from 13 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Then Mr Martínek apologizes today from 13:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. You have another 10 minutes, because the minister is here. [[Member Boyko: At the beginning of the gala -]] Sorry, I have to interrupt. There is one point in fact, first a deputy Zdeněk Ondráček gets the floor. I can see it here with me. So, since you had 10 minutes, now you're actually going to have Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's Rules of Procedure for two minutes to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u58	I'll be very short. I would like, through you, Mr President, to ask Mr Bojek if the rest of his speeches could be factual and speak the truth, so that it is not, as if you are speaking, that everyone is always. I, when you say everyone, have a major problem with that. Everybody stealing... So if I'm stealing, tell me, and always do it, I don't have a problem with it. But now it's been said, and I don't like the fact that you actually put us all together. The point is: KSČM, all of us sitting here, nobody, nobody, and I can tell you that for sure, did not raise his hand to limit speech performance to twice 10 minutes. No one from the KSČM Club. So please, if someone else did it, just say it in a matter of fact and don't everybody say it. Now I'm telling you how it was at the KSČM club, and that's just the way it was and that's the way it was. I'm defending myself against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u59	Now I have an apology, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for working reasons from 13:30 pm to the end of the day. Mr. Bojko has another 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u60	I apologize to the club KSČM, but you voted - SPD - you voted for the first time, I will show you. It doesn't matter. It's not a problem. I apologize to other communists. But to follow up on what I read. At the beginning of the gala, Magdaléna Souček welcomed guests, during which he presented the Czech Television Award for the entrepreneurial contribution of the CEO of Czech Television Petr Dvořák, who also held a meeting in the jury of the Czech Television Awards. Czech TV is not only a patron of the prize for four years, but also the main media partner of the competition. Director General ČT Petr Dvořák -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u61	Ambassador, I'm just gonna interrupt you. Here are the complaints from the MPs that you're running out of time, but I have it here. It shows me time and I don't understand why it doesn't show up on the screen. [[And he's not here either.]] He's not there either. Now you're at 9:15, so now I don't know what you're... So keep talking, I'll give you 20 more seconds, but I'm watching you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u62	Hm, hm, hm. The CEO of ČT Petr Dvořák on the show, which he produced in cooperation with Ernst & Young, said: "The essence of the Czech Television Award is to find such brave people who are able and willing to do business, who, moreover, make money by following all the laws of this country. " However, compliance with all the laws of the Czech Republic should also be the duty of Czech Television, as its main task is to contribute to the legal awareness of the citizens of the Czech Republic according to the Czech Television Act. "However, the contract on the production of the programme with the connected person of the auditor establishes significant doubts as to compliance with the independence of the auditor. During the 14th meeting of the ČT Council on 9 September 2020, I asked the CEO of Czech Television about this relationship between both companies." That's Hana Lipovská. Managing Director Petr Dvořák: "Thank you for the warning, Councilwoman, but this is a matter that we know and which we are currently discussing with Ernst & Young, and we assume that when we find a solution, we can introduce you to it. It's not a thing we don't know about." After six months the Czech Television Council was not informed about the solution. She was not even informed that Czech Television would change the auditor. However, this does not put an end to the question of controlling the Czech TV's economy. In June 2020, the Czech Television Council unanimously adopted a resolution by 15 votes of all its members: "The Council recommends that one-off in-depth cost analysis and follow-up recommendations from renowned advisory institutions with international experience in the field of public media'. As it follows from public documents, an in-depth analysis of the foundations of Czech Television to rationalise processes and management, economy and efficiency, Czech Television has also approached Ernst & Young as potential suppliers participating in a preliminary market consultation, a company of the so-called large four, among them. The preliminary market consultation resulted, inter alia, in an increase in the estimated value of the contract to 12,250,000. However, Ernst & Young was to exclude itself from the entire public contract, which did not happen. Moreover, the ČT Board has been officially alerted to complaints by one of the audit firms about potential serious errors in the publication of this public contract. However, Petr Dvořák, CEO of Czech Television, did not want to answer the questions of the Czech Television Council. [[13.30 hours]] The reasons justifying the requirement of a truly independent in-depth, if not even a forensic audit exists. Doubts about liabilities after the maturity of Médea were already raised in January 2019 in the publicist programme of Czech Television 168 hours. However, even after that, Czech Television concluded a number of contracts with Médea, a. s., which was pointed out by the creditor and the complainant of the insolvency claim against the debtor in the form of insolvency, LIPIAN Trade, a. s. Similar contracts would not constitute a fundamental economic problem if Czech Television had claims with Médea, a. s. insured, but otherwise there would have been significant doubts about the proper care of the proper economy. Dvořák, Director General, refused to answer questions during the meeting of the Czech Television Council, on the one hand, stating that he could not answer them. The Czech Television Council has therefore commissioned its Supervisory Committee to take over the documentation for the payment schedule from Médea, a. s., and has prepared answers to, inter alia, the question of whether the payment schedule also includes explicit debt recognition or other advantages for Czech Television improving the enforcement of claims. Similarly, the case of Leica Gallery Prague, owned by the family of CEO Petr Dvořák, is also the chairman of its board of directors. Leica Gallery regularly appears on the news broadcasts of Czech Television, at least in one case the exhibited works were offered to the audience for purchase. The commercial contract for promotion between Czech Television and Leica Gallery was not able to be traced in public registers. The ČT Council was not informed of its existence by the resolution of its supervisory commission of October 2019 - it stated that no contract or other performance within the meaning of Article 2.1 or 2.7 of the Czech Television Code Leica Gallery Prague, o. p. s., did not conclude with ČT and did not perform in favour of Leica Gallery Prague in any other way - however, it did not explain on what basis the legal relationship was in the news broadcast by the moderator Barbora Peterová's theorem: "And if you like the photographs, you can basically buy them as such, and exclusively here at Leica Gallery there is also a book on sale." But Leica Gallery may not be the only conflict of interest. After the election of Petr Dvořák, GOPAS experts appeared repeatedly on the Czech Television screen, which is still owned by the CEO and co-owner of PPF Ladislav Bartoníček. These examples are the result of the findings that an active member of the Czech Television Council can get to on the sole basis of public resources. Despite repeated attempts, however, members of the Czech Television Council face the efforts of management to make control activities difficult and the role of the Council to maintain only formality. If such cooperation with the Director-General were to continue, the Czech Television Council could not carry out its legal task. The relationship between the Director General of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Television is very specific. By its very nature, it must not take the form of a regulatory capture in which the board only passively accepts and thoughtlessly approves all the management provided by the supporting documents. However, it must not be a conflicting competition, but a partnership dialogue between the two institutions. It is in the interest of Czech Television and Czech Society that the Council of Czech Television and the CEO of Czech Television work together. A completely undesirable stalemate situation, which could seriously harm public television and the interests of dealers, can ultimately lead either to the appeal of the Czech Television Council by the Chamber of Deputies and the election of the Council by the new or the appeal of the Director-General, or to a parallel staff change of both institutions. These solutions are completely equivalent and each of them would be fully legitimate and legal, neither would threaten the stability of Czech society, nor democracy, nor the freedom and independence of public media. However, if the Council of Czech Television resigned from its activities, did not take an interest in the management, did not act legally and silently for the money of the concessionaires looked at its economic fall, the enemies of public television would prevail. Today, it is not those who ask questions and actively carry out control activities that fight Czech Television's freedom and independence, but those who demand comfortable doing nothing for members of the Czech Television Council. And now something about some conflict of interest and so on from the past. Czech Television Council member Petr Žantovský from 2020 will be running for Senate under the heading of SPD Tomio Okamura in the autumn. [[2000?]] It is unique for a member of the media council to apply for election to the legislature. Some experts consider the Žantovský candidacy to be unethical, while the law does not forbid the members of the Council to be senator, but only a Member. Žantovský himself has recently announced that he would leave the Czech News Agency if elected. No member of the Council of the Czech Press Office creates such emotions as Petr Žantovský. Attention is attached to a close relationship with President Miloš Zeman, a tendency to alternative websites that deliberately deal with facts or directly spread disinformation, or a constant criticism of Czech television. This summer he became an independent candidate for the SPD in the autumn Senate elections, and he will apply for a mandate in Cologne. Members of media councils avoid the principle of candidacy to the most important political bodies. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u63	I'll explain again to the rapporteur, I said 10 minutes ago that unfortunately for technical reasons you don't see time here and here, they're fixing it, but I can see it with me. I've been tracking for ten minutes. It may not be fixed yet, so the President watches the time, don't worry, unfortunately it is not visible on your screen. It's already lit up in there. Mrs Olga Sommerová, Mrs Lubomír Volný will be prepared and I will pass on the proceedings. I will read two apologies: Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologises from 13.30 to the end of the day and Mr Patrik Nacher from 14.15 to the end of the day. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u64	I will read what I did not say in my first speech that, following the recommendation of the Election Committee, I propose to our plenary to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic withdraws Ms Hana Lipovská from the post of member of the Czech Television Council pursuant to Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, § 5 para. 2." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u65	Thank you. Just to clarify, rapporteur, as rapporteur or draftsman, you have a right of priority on this point, and such a proposal should be heard in the debate, not in a factual note. I'm not gonna deal with this. Time's kind of running out. Mr Lubomír Volný, his first speech, if I have the right comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u66	So thank you. It's gonna be a little more complicated than that. [[The MP reads from his cell phone.]] "In Prague on 16 April 2021, the legislative department, the opinion of the legislative department on the examination of possible conflict of interest of a member of the Czech Television Council. At the request of the President of the Election Committee, Mr Mgr Stanislav Berkovec, in the matter of examining the possible conflict of interest of a member of the Czech Television Council, hereinafter referred to as the Council, Ing. Hana Lipovská, ., we give you the following opinion: The legislation contained in Act No. 481/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, is so general and obsolete as it was adopted at a time including amendments, when some legal forms of organizations did not exist, that it does not provide sufficient legal basis for a clear assessment of this matter. Nor can it be based on the explanatory notes to the law and the strong comments of media law experts who do not deal with this problem. [[13.40 hours]] Likewise, the current House of Practice has not yet dealt with similar things according to our knowledge. As a result, the existing amendment to the wording of the individual provisions raises a number of questions which cannot be answered unambiguously. However, we are inclined to believe that, on behalf of any public body, appointed as a member of the Council, it should not express its views and positions, in particular in matters which fall within the competence of the Council pursuant to Section 8 of the Act cited, or which may call into question its independence or impartiality in the performance of the function of a member of the Council. The assessment of possible conflicts of interest and decisions in this matter falls within the competence of the entire Chamber of Deputies, with the fact that a motion for an appeal appointed from the Council pursuant to Section 6, paragraph 1... blah, blah, blah... of the Czech Television Act may be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by both the Election Committee and any Member. Since it is not for the legislative department to provide binding interpretations of the electoral rules, we consider the participation of a member of our department in this matter to be unfounded at the meeting of the electoral committee. We therefore recommend that we address this question to external media experts who could subsequently also take part in the electoral committee's deliberations and give their opinion on the matter. However, it is clear that any position, in particular in view of the existing legislation, will always be largely expressed by a subjective view, and therefore a binding interpretation of the Czech Television Act can only be made by the court when discussing a specific proposal. This opinion is intended for the needs of the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and its members.' I therefore ask whether you have obeyed the legislative department's recommendations and whether you have obtained any legal opinion, Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President, to say here today that there is a violation of the law when even legislative lawyers at the highest possible level can find it here in the House. I don't think you do, because if you had it, you'd have to put it in your opening words. It was said here that a pirát attack said that Mrs Lipovská retaliated for a specific programme. Well, the cost of the show was also demanded by Fokus Václav Moravec and others, never been discussed because this information is classified. Secret! The Czech Television Council simply failed to make Czech Television know, as a concessionaire of Czech Television, how much money Václav Moravec is taking for his electoral or political manipulation on his show. I totally disagree with this person as a citizen. He informs the public in a misleading way, inviting only people who conform to his political convictions. When he invites someone who has a similar political conviction to me, he's always weak, he invites two opponents. This guy's just not objective at all, and I want to know how much he gets for his presstitutive job. And as a citizen of the Czech Republic, as a concessionaire who is forced to pay this man against his will, I have no right to know. I have no right to know, this rada has done absolutely nothing about it, and I think most of the political representation is okay with that. This is where there is a hidden struggle for so-called public television, which is not public at all. It's not public because it's the Chamber of Deputies that nominates these people. It's just unbelievable how someone here still claims that Czech TV is independent. There's a tough fight going on here -- YES Wing, SPD -- there's a tough fight going on to put their people in the Council, who are supposed to gradually replace the people that have been placed there before by another coalition. And that's all it is. That's all it is! It's just about gaining political influence over the Czech TV, because the system, it's a relationship with a vaccine that's not a vaccine. That TV isn't public, it's never public, and it's never public in this system. It's just gonna be this House or this House that's gonna be sitting here later. It's House TV. And everything there is decided on the basis of political order and political pressure. This is where the members of the Czech Television Council are led by more battles than anything else. The classic demonstration was here the obstructions, where even I suspect that once it was not eight hours, but it was twelve hours, when even I suspect ČSSD joined the opposition here. I say it at our meetings, and it's interesting. Everyone here has always been against prolonging emergency situations, but when they were supposed to block them with obstructions, it never happened once, nobody ever did. And when it came to blocking the Czech Television Council, the opposition here is outnumbered by the government - seven clubs against two - suddenly the opposition realized that it could block the House. By the way, if this opposition wanted to block the House, there wouldn't be a single law going through the government coalition. If the opposition were to build as rigorously as you did with the Czech Television Council, no budget had been passed, no law passed, nothing had passed. So here you can see how much the councilmen weigh. Political. Political, no other. You just want to get your people on TV first, your messages, so there's people who are loyal. And it's just so beautiful that you guys just... The mafia here is now intimidating the other councilmen and taking on a big stick. You're affecting the other councilmen now. You threaten them, you show them how big a stick you have on them, that when you don't listen, you won't take bribes, you won't be well, you won't do what we want you to do, so we'll always take you down with that stick. We'll always take you down because it's us, the House, who's holding that stick over you and can let him go at any time. The sword of Damoklův. Aren't you going to be obedient? Are you gonna criticize the fact that he steals from Czech TV? You will criticize the fact that Czech television is not capable, is not capable of... Where am I supposed to... [[He's looking in the background.]] That's a lot of information... Will you criticize the fact that Czech Television will not invite Mr. Žďárský, who had PCR tests for 50 crowns when the mob wants to sell them for 1,200? Are you gonna criticize this? Then you'll come from the rada. We'll call you off. We'll find something on you. Šerý Grey, if he finds out that there's no covid virus in the small stores that we, as corporate government, have closed, you're gonna use that Omar Šerý and you're gonna want him on TV? Well, then you'll be a councilman. You're not gonna get the extra money, and you're gonna go with a great shame because we're gonna degenerate you. Marek Petráš. You invite Marek Petráš, who's done 15 studies, and he's clearly found out that people who have had covid have both mucus immunity and cellular immunity, they have immunity and cellular immunity on the mucous membranes, which means they can't be infected either way, like those who are just vaccinated because they only have cellular immunity? That this guy can only be colonized, which means he can breathe the virus, but he can't get anywhere? And he's gonna multiply? Are you gonna say that on Czech TV? Or are you going to push these people to go to Czech Television? Well, then you won't be councilman. We've got this big stick, now we're pointing it out to you on Lipovská. And if you say one word against the covid mafia, the mafia of Czech television, the media mafia and any other mafia, political here, as part of your activities on Czech television, and you criticize it, you will go. Because here's the stick. Here's the baseball bat. We beat a little lady six feet, 55 kilos with shoes, so we're gonna beat you to death. And it doesn't matter that the lady has an IQ of 200 and that she was twice as smart, maybe three times smarter than the average Member in this House. It doesn't matter. Once she's telling the truth, because she's a religious Christian and because a lie is a mortal sin for her, we're gonna get her into hell - at least a media one. How is it that Czech Television is not discussing the fact that Prague's metro is 100% anti-infectious? The Prague subway, where dogs, cats do not ride - they are also supposed to be covide carriers - ferrets, homeless people, drunken returning strangers, unringed drivers, thousands of people who wear drapes poorly or have them old, they have them under their chins, under their noses, and I also don't know how many people who reject all government measures - and the subway is infectable. Metro-infectious. Like infectivity, small shops are based on Mr. Omar Šerý's research. Just like the anti-infectious are large shops according to Omar Šerý's findings. It is scientifically proven that COVID-19 does not spread in enclosed spaces. How come it's not full of Czech TV? How come you're okay with this and you're not calling after the appeal of the councilmen who are hiding this from the Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u67	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. And I assume you'll make a smooth transition to your second post. So 10 minutes again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u68	I think it's gonna be a little bit more professional than that. Councilman Kühn is an advisor to the Minister of Culture of the Zaorálek. He takes money for this function, influences political events in the country, it is in a clear conflict of interest. It didn't come out of the mouth of any ČSSD colleagues. So let's do it again. Councilman Kühn is an advisor to the Minister of Culture for the ČSSD Mr. Zaorálek, he takes money for it, and none of you - and yet you all know it when I know it - does not propose his appeal. I ask the pirát: How come you're not suggesting the appeal of Councilman Kühn? I ask ODS: Why aren't you suggesting the appeal of Councilman Kühn? I ask the TOP 09: Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President, how is it that you do not propose the appeal of Councilman Kühn? I'm asking STAN: "Why aren't you suggesting the appeal of Councilman Kühn?" I ask KDU-ČSL: Why aren't you suggesting the appeal of Alderman Kühn? I ask ano: How is it that you do not propose the appeal of Alderman Kühn? Will somebody answer me? You have two minutes, you can press the button, and we can talk about how the Minister of Culture's advisor doesn't affect the political situation in this country. And he's taking money for it. It's hard to figure out a more flagrant demonstration of the councilman who's about to be called off. And you're sitting here looking at your phone, and you're killing me at the most when it comes down to it, because you know that he should have been called off. He's supposed to have been called off a long time ago, but he's convenient for you, so you're not calling him off. [[13.50 hours]] This is the news we've been limited to twice 10 minutes for. You, again, the media mafia, voted that we can only perform twice 10 minutes. I don't know if I can read it all, I don't think so. But at least I'll read you how much the CEO of Czech Television is lying. This is all an analysis of his lies. [[It shows a union of documents.]] And by the way, each of you MPs got it in their e-mail box today because my assistant sent it over to you. So if I can't read it in time, you can open your e-mail boxes and all these documents that don't sound public. Because you don't want it because you gagged us again. I'm wondering if I'm gonna get carried away again, but we'll see. You put a gag on us, so all these documents can't even be read. You are here trying to call off the only member of the Czech Television Council who systematically fights to steal 7 billion from its budget and who systematically fights to ensure that those who politically control the Czech Television Council by mafia methods are not favoured. Let us say this once again: The Czech Television Council is a political body because it is elected by the Chamber of Deputies. Anyone who says the Czech Television Council is independent in any way is lying. The only way you could choose a completely independent Council of Czech Television is by direct public choice. Direct choice by the public and then you can say that the Czech Television Council is an independent body. If you need this House to give him a certain number of votes to elect a councilman, how can it be apolitical? How can he be apolitical? Show me one single member of the Czech Television Council who has not been elected a politician! We all know that's not possible. Don't yell at me, colleague! [[To Mr. Babka.]] If you want to write it down, write it down. Show me the only member of the Czech Television Council who has not been elected by this House or the previous House. The only one with no political power behind him. What you're doing here is deceiving the public and lying to the public. But I have to tell the public that the Council of Czech Television is not an independent body, it is a political body that is set up here by the House, and according to who rules the House, it places its people on the Council of Czech Television so that the Council of Czech Television invites its supporters into those programmes to sound the news in its favor. Because those reading heads that are on Czech television will read everything that goes there from their reading device. I've only been on TV a few times, and I've seen it there. Mr. Železný, when the regime or the situation changes, he's gonna have another slide going in there, and he's gonna read what he's gonna have written, and he's gonna pretend to believe it. That's the way it goes on Czech TV, and you're not doing anything about it. You really aren't doing anything about the councilman being an advisor to the Minister of Culture. By the way, I'm going to have the procedural proposal that the Minister of Culture be present on such an important matter soon, so I'm going to propose that the negotiations be suspended until the Minister of Culture is present. For the time being, I'm still finishing up my four minutes and ten seconds that you've given me so respectfully. The public will learn what it needs to know from other sources, but unfortunately it will not sound from the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because the Covide media mafia is once again gagging non-attached Members. Mr Dvořák's first lie: "The Council of Czech Television was informed about my work at GOPAS in 2011 through a CV." The 2011 CV merely stated that the CEO of Dvořák is a member of the statutory body of GOPAS, where he has been Vice-President of the Board since 2003. On the contrary, it was not mentioned in the CV that Petr Dvořák was and is a co-owner of GOPAS, as a 25% shareholder, first through his 50% stake in the Dutch company Globeinvest One, B. V., later directly as a partner. By the way, a country from tax haven. The fact that Petr Dvořák has not been Vice-President of the Board of Directors since 2003, but since 1996 can be forgotten is forgiven because this is not relevant to the conflict of interests problem. Untrue figure number two: the Director General of the Czech Republic has no obligation to report on the participation in legal entities. It is interesting that the opinion of the director of Czech Television is that he does not want you to know if he has any of his property in legal entities. The Director General of Czech Television as a member of the statutory body of a legal person established by the law is a public official under the law of conflict of interest. As such, he is obliged to state accurately, completely and truthfully that he is a partner or member of a business entity and what business entity he is. Miss Hanka Lipovská has revealed that the director of the CT is hiding his property from the public! A man with a seven-billion-dollar budget is hiding his property in legal entities. What do you need for suspicion of corruption, what can be more for you to have a conflict of interest than this obvious dishonesty? But that's not allowed, because the director of the Czech Television is a very manageable figure in political warfare because you have a stick on the headmaster of the Czech Republic, of course, just like you have on every councilman. You just can't approve the annual news of the Czech TV, which is now here, twice, and Mr. Director Dvořák will go. Director Dvořák knows very well, and that's why he's acting the way he's acting. That's why it's coming along now, as it comes down to the demands of those who will be here next year in this House with a probability of playing with certainty, and who gives a shit about those who will not be sitting here anymore. That's it! He's not independent! You can cut him anytime, and Mr. Dvořák knows, and he will act accordingly. I repeat for voters: The head of the CT is not independent. This House may withdraw it whenever this House decides not to approve the two annual reports of the Czech Television Council. So Mr. Petr Dvořák failed to fulfill his obligation to report. Now I've only got 40 seconds, that's amazing, that's great when elected deputies gag people and can only talk twice for 10 minutes! That is perfect, which is why I now propose a procedural vote that this item is postponed until the Minister of Culture is present. And then I will read the resolution and justify it in my next speeches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There has been a procedural proposal, which we will vote on immediately. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. There's a checkout request. A procedural proposal and then your factual remark. I will just draw attention to the fact that it will be 2:00 p.m. under the political club agreement that we will vote on the elimination of points and the termination of the meeting. For those who come into the hall, I ask you to sign up with your cards, because there was a request for check-out. [[14.00 hours]] Once we have a quorum, we will vote on the proposal by Mr Volný, which he proposes, we would interrupt this point into the presence of the Minister of Culture. The House is a quorum. [[Members are still coming.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 159, 99 Members are currently logged in, for 12, against 34. The motion was denied. It's 2:00. I originally prepared a brief speech in which I would say goodbye to you and wish you good luck and success in or outside the elections, but since it is already announced that we will probably meet again, I am not saying goodbye to you. In any case, it is 14.00 and, according to the agreement of club presidents, it is agreed from the Gremia of Tuesday that we will respect this time and we will now vote on the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated points of this meeting. Mr Bartošek, then President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this agreement has been expressed on the Gremium. Anyway, given that yesterday's thanks - and now it's not personal - but thanks to the misguided vote for the ANO club, which has changed its mind today, I would have put forward a proposal for us to negotiate this point and then cancel out the points. The point is, this is not a law. I believe that we can continue the negotiations under the Rules of Procedure. In case you disagree with me, I would suggest it as a procedural proposal that we complete this point and then discard the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u71	It's the other way around. We, on the basis of the agreement at 14.00, conclude, unless the Presidents agree otherwise. So in that case, maybe I'll interrupt for five minutes and let's figure out how we're gonna do it. Or I will give the floor to Prime Minister Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u72	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say for the Pirates Club that we certainly haven't discussed all the important points. We have a long-term valuation of teachers' salaries, which is a vital thing for us. We didn't discuss that point. It is a return from the Senate to be discussed at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We certainly do not claim that we should launch all the points now and not discuss such a fundamental bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u73	So five minutes, and I think I'm gonna ask you if we can consult right here at my chair. Follow me, Prime Minister. [[The hearing was suspended from 14.02 to 14.07 hours.]] It's 14.07, we'll continue. I'll read a few apologies. I don't know if this one was read. Mr. František Elfmark apologizes today since 13.45. Apologies to Mr Aleš Juchelka today from 13.40. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Member, apologizes from 13.30 to the end of the day. As a result of the negotiations of the political club chairmen, we will now vote to remove the remaining points from this meeting, with the exception of paragraph 203, Hana LipovskLipovská's appeal, which will be negotiated today. [[Sounds like a gong.]] [[14.10 hours]] I ask you to take your seats, and first we will vote on the elimination of all remaining points, except for paragraph 203. I checked you out. I called in my coworkers from the lobby. So, we're acquitted. I think there's a full number of us. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of excluding all points except paragraph 203 from the agenda of this meeting? Who's against it? Voting number 160, registered 99, for 64, versus 25. The motion was accepted. We will therefore continue to discuss paragraph 203. With a point of fact, Mrs Sommerová is registered. Please, you have the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, you can talk, I've already turned on your... [[Mrs Sommer warns of noise.]] Wait, I'll end this. [[The President is ringing.]] Quiet in the hall, please! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u74	Yes. Thank you for the floor. When there was talk of the reasons for Mrs Lipovská's appeal, it was called into question that it could be withdrawn from a conflict of interest in terms of political activity. I want to remind you that Mrs Lipovská herself in an interview for CNN Prima News said: "The candidacy itself is already a political activity." The subject that Mr Martínek, Mr. Martínek, presented here today, Lidice's case, has come up a bit. Mrs Lipovská is a member of the Memory Lidice Association, and when the Czech Television created a report on the eve of the tragedy, Mrs Lipovská requested all information on how much the report cost and so on as a councilman. She gave this topic four times at the council meeting and opposed it, although it was in conflict of interest, because Memory Lidice was created after the Czech Freedom Warriors Union in Lidice, which was led by Mrs Bobošíková, died. So Mrs Lipovská got into a conflict of interest that she held an opinion that was against the opinion of Czech Television, or the report, and was herself in conflict of interest. So I just wanted to remind you that this is actually the point of her doing, where it's quite obvious that she's in conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u75	Thank you. Mr Klaus, then Mr Volný Lubomír.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u76	So if this goes on for weeks and weeks, the meeting... Well, I really appreciate the human sacrifice, and I think it's one of the tasks of the state television to take care of this legacy, so I don't think that's a good example you're bringing up here. But now that we are conducting this nonsense session here on Friday, there have been quite serious accusations on the address of Councilman Kühn, namely that he is a paid advisor to the Minister of Culture of Zaorálek, which I believe is a flagrant violation, exactly the same as this law on the independence of the ČT Council, so I am giving a procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting until the election committee takes a stand on Mr Kühn's membership in the Czech Television Council, because I think that as a Member we are supposed to work in a fall style and not that someone with a little less social intelligence is jurodically jumping on the committee, so we are going to call him off, but we are really to take care of the independence of this council. So I'm making this proposal. I'll confess for that reason, too, because I'm going with my daughter, I want to pick her up as soon as possible before I listen to this bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u77	Thank you. There was a procedural proposal that we interrupt this point until we get the election committee's statement on a conflict of interest, if I say so, to another member. Checkout request again. Please sign in. I feel like whoever could've come. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in favour of interrupting this point? Who's against it? Voting 161, registered 91, for 16, versus 24. The motion was denied. Let's keep going. A point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u78	I am with Mrs Sommerová, through Mr President. I'm sorry, I didn't understand a word you said. I don't know if it's the smoking breath or the blouse, but I don't know what you said. [[Punching the bench from the right.]] I understand, I have heard that Mrs Lipovská is in conflict of interest because she has a different opinion than Czech television. I really don't understand. Did you really say that? I'm serious. It's just that your breath is weak, and you're just moaning in that cloak. I really don't know what you said. So I'd like to repeat what conflict of interest Mrs Lipovská is in. I have yet to understand that she is a member of an organization, and in that law it is clear which organization, with which legal status this person must not be a member. So, please, the organization you were talking about at Mrs. Lipovská's, what's her status? It's a registered association, is it, I don't know, an essero company? What is this and why can't Hana Lipovská be in it? And the pirát could actually say the same thing. They don't like Mrs. Bobošíková. Mrs Bobošíková is probably the biggest problem in this House and she simply controls everything. [[He's laughing.]] So Mrs Bobošíková has some company where a person who runs for the Czech Television Council or is a member of the Czech Television Council must not work. He's not allowed to work there, that person? What's the status of Mrs. Bobošíková's organization? Again, what is it? It's a registered association, it's a joint venture, is it anything else? So, Jesus Christ, Mrs Sommerová, one day you're turning around, through Mr President, by law, it would be nice if you knew the law and if you were able to just legally argue that... I hope I didn't hear that, that one has a different opinion from the Czech TV... Please, does Czech TV have an opinion? What is the opinion of Czech Television? Czech TV is not entitled to any opinion! Czech television serves here and no one cares about the views of Czech television. - Don't tell Mrs. Sommerová not to respond, leave her alone! She's an MP, hopefully she's got her own head. I want you guys to come in here and boss her around about what she's supposed to do and what she's not supposed to do. - So what's his opinion? What right does Czech Television have to have opinions? I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting in the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u79	Thank you. There has been a procedural proposal, which I will put to the vote immediately. I'll call all my colleagues again. I hear knocking again, always from somewhere else. I will. Please log in again. [[Member Lubomír Free reports that something has fallen into his voting system.]] I'll ask the IT representative to take a look. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný claims an inoperative device. Mr. Ambassador, try another place. [[The Free Member is leaving the Chamber.]] In the event that the Member has left the O.R., it doesn't matter if his device works or doesn't work, my friends. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favor of interrupting? [[The Free Member has returned to his seat and reports that his voting device is not working.]] Please try the secondary device at the next table. [[The Free Member repeats that his device is not working.]] Who's against it? Voting number 162, registered 81, for 10, against 28. The motion was denied. For the vote, Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u80	I question the President's procedure. My voting device doesn't work, it's been repeatedly pointed out, it's broken the rules of procedure. I will not vote from any other place that may be infected with COVID-19, and I could endanger my health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u81	Objection is completely legitimate. The Member has objected to my way of holding the meeting. I've started the vote. Who is to object to my procedure? Openly I say... Who's against it? Voting number 163, registered 81, for 1, versus 54. I'll proceed according to the manner in which the meeting is held. Ambassador, I have information that you tucked something into your plug or whatever I would call it. And that you actually damaged your voting device. [[Fun in the hall, laughter.]] You have the opportunity to vote from somewhere else, you can vote here at the edge... [[I want to question your...]] You've done it before, you've questioned. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u82	So I'm questioning how to hold a meeting. I was in my seat. I pointed out that my voting device wasn't working, which apparently was clogged up by the pirát. So I need you to check my plug. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And I refuse to vote from another. Nothing makes me vote from my place, I want to use my plug, I don't use foreign plugs, and I'm not gonna touch any plug that might have COVID-19. So I'm questioning the way you're running the meeting, and I'm gonna do it over and over again until you fix my beloved plug.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u83	I understand your emotional relationship to the plug... [[Fun in the hall.]] I'm interrupting for 10 minutes and we'll try to fix it somehow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u84	We will continue and vote again. The last thing we voted on was what? Yeah, objection to my progress. [[It's ringing.]] We've already voted. [[There are various screams from the O.R.]] I called everyone in the lobby. We are a quorum. I'm gonna check you out again, and I'm gonna ask you to sign in again. According to the record of the last vote, there really was an objection to my progress, so I'm asking you to come forward. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 164, registered 86, for 2, versus 66. The motion was denied. We will therefore proceed further in the debate. At this point, I have Mrs Richterová's point of order, if that is not a mistake. A point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný. We are still in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u85	Thank you. I will respond to what Mrs Richterová has to say, because I know exactly what she was going to say. She wanted to say that Mrs Lipovská's appeal is completely fine because there is a conflict of interest in it because the law so asks because Mrs Bobošíková is behind it, because Mrs Lipovská is so rude that she is in a society that reminds us of the fate of Lidice, who so fucked up Czech television, who blamed innocent people for at least part of the tragedy, if not the whole. It is interesting that it hasn't been mentioned here today how Czech television works in a horrible way under the direction of such councillors as Mr Kühn, who, as has been said, is an advisor to the Minister for ČSSD, who, of course, collaborated on this betrayal together with the Czech Television, because now the political narative of ČSSD as well as the so-called Liberal Democrats is a transcription of history, when we will soon learn that Lidice was murdered by us, the evil Čech, that we, the evil Čech, executed all the folk men, that we, the evil Čech, had taken the remaining women to the Czech concentration camps where we murdered them, and those Czech children from Lidice, were subjected to violent Czechs in the former Federal Republic of Germany. We will learn this in a moment, thanks to such people as Mrs Sommerová here, through Mr President, thanks to such people as the pirát here, when history will be rewritten to such a level that 20 years from now, if common sense does not prevail, it will really be that we Čech were responsible for all the victims of World War II because we had the audacity to defend ourselves against the German Nazis. Is that how you plan it? But the protest party won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u86	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate - I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word from the plaintiff? Madam, are you interested in the final word? [[Screams from the right side of the hall: No!]] Please don't yell at each other. If this is not the case, I am opening the debate in detail. I have the first member of the Volný Member to join it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's twice 10 minutes again, isn't it? Amazing, in the House, the elected representative of the people can only speak twice 10 minutes, but there are Members who can speak at any time with the so-called priority right. Maybe a SPD like that has at least two MPs. One of them is Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura and the other is Chairman of Radim Fiala. In his absence, the Vice-Presidents may speak for the SPD with priority rights. And I'm begging you, my fellow espedicians, my friends, Hanka Lipovská is your candidate. He is a man who fights against the mob on Czech TV and on your behalf. The fact that she refused to run for your side doesn't make her a worse person than she was when you gave her your vote. So I'm begging you, espedicians, and please those communists who don't want this illegal act to go through with me when I run out of 20 minutes, because I'm gonna sit here again and sit here until the police force gets me out of here, but I'd like you to stand by my side, or if Tomio Okamura takes advantage of his priority rights and starts building up until Monday, I think, within eight hours, because if you can hold out and fight for Hanka Lipovská until Monday at eight o'clock, no one will call her off. [[14.40 hours]] Boys, girls espedicians, you have a heart, each of you has two 10 minutes left in a detailed debate. You can stop them from calling off your candidate. Do it. Tomio been digging from here a few times, a few times from here, Tomio been screaming that if there's any injustice going on, he knows he can be an explorer. You can even take two hours of breaks. Please take them, take those two hours of breaks, everyone else will go home because they have tickets, it's Friday, they want to go home. Save Hanka Lipovská, your candidate. Save the girl who fights against the mob on Czech Television. Save the girl who's fighting Dvořák, who's so bad for you. How many years have you been on Czech TV? You know it's stealing. You know that Hanka Lipovská is the only little big woman who's against it. No, Mr. Vích, please don't leave, Mr. Vích, please don't. Please stand by Hanka. Tomio, please, with all the good things... [[President Vondráček enters into the debate: I will ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and address my colleagues through me. Laughter and entertainment in the hall.]] Tomio, through the President, and used his - Tomio, my friend, please do not allow Hanka Lipovská's appeal. [[President Vondráček: Once again, please, through me.]] She's your candidate, too. I mean, you're an honest guy, you're not some rat who makes some backroom deals and does business for something. You're not the guy who wiped out Moravian-Silesian County for the second time in a row. You're not the guy who wiped out Pardubice County. You're not the guy who wiped out the Karlovy Vary county. You're the man who fought against emergency situations here. This is where you stood, and you spent hours sharpening. You took breaks, you fought. You fought against an emergency, you said so yourself. You guys fought so hard against the emergency. You fought so badly that he was admitted in four hours and 37 minutes, and you got off for seven minutes, I think, a Fiala even five. You fought so badly because of the emergency. Please, through Mr President, Tomio, Hanka is your candidate. You voted for her, you lobbied for her. He's a guy who fights the mob on Czech TV who made you wear a respirator when you went through a tourniquet so you could take it off in the studio. You know you're up against a great evil that's really bad for you, SPD. You, Tomio, you know that, through the President, so please do it, like you did in emergency situations. Extricate as you did under the pandemic law, or at least defend your position as if you forbade the militias when you banned the militias or when you created a building office with 20,000 employees. Fight. I'll sit here. I, when this is over, either I take a chair here or I don't take a chair, and I'm gonna stand here again until the police force me out, and please anyone who doesn't agree to it, either stand next to me, or use their right to explore. And you, Tomio, have it. You can stand here, you can stand here as many hours as you can. I've done it for three and a half hours. What record do you have, through Mr President? Come on, because Hanka Lipovská is an honest young girl, deeply religious, for whom a lie is a mortal sin. She's the right person in the right place. That is why I now propose a resolution which will sound like: 'The Chamber of Deputies rejects the pressure of the media mafia on the appeal of Hanka Lipovská'. Why? Why do I say media mafia? Well, that's pretty simple, but I'm gonna repeat it here, because many haven't heard it yet, and many don't know it yet. The Czech Television Council is not an independent body. The Czech Television Council is elected by the House, largely this, from something previous or future. Czech Television Council - I would ask for peace here at the rapporteur's table, ladies, I would like to ask for peace at the rapporteur's table - Czech Television is elected. If someone forced the dealers to feel that Czech TV was independent, that's not true. And we should educate the public. Mr President, I'm sorry, but the ladies here are always disturbing me. [[At the rapporteur's table, Mrs Pekarová Adam is speaking with the draftsman, Mrs Sommer.]] Should I name them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u88	Mr. Ambassador, everything in moderation, I'll arrange my own order. You pay attention to your speech. Noise levels aren't higher than when you were yelling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u89	I'm distracted, I'm distracted by the ladies next door, they're having fun. I'm not able to hold the thought, so I'd like you to calm these ladies down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u90	I don't hear anything disturbing, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u91	Okay. So my colleague doesn't hear anything disturbing, that's great. It is simple: this House is currently intimidating all honest members of the Czech Television Council and all other media councils. This House is now showing all members of these councils that they have a stick on them and that they are not afraid to use it, even if the general public is informed, even if the public is informed by hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of people. This House is not afraid at all. There's no House of Commons afraid of that, because they believe that information isn't going anywhere. But the information's flying to at least hundreds of thousands of people right now. So let's do it again. There is no independent body like any media council, because they are all political party nominees. There's a party that's gonna form a society, that association's gonna propose somebody, and there's a member of that party who artificially created that association or something, or some nonprofit that sends money, that's gonna approve it or not. So a friendly minister sends money to a friendly nonprofit, a friendly nonprofit proposes someone to the Council as an independent subject like Czech Television, and here the friendly minister with his handle, who sent them money to get his independent candidate, elects his own person to the Czech Television Council. It's been like this for years, but none of you have ever told anyone, because those are your rules, those are your secret rules by which you play your games without public presence. You only have these rules to yourself, just so you can play by them. But the Free Block as a protest party isn't here to hold the bass with you. The free block as a protest party is here to draw attention to these very ways and methods of yours, by which you fool the public. So I'm pointing them out again. And the CEO of Czech Television is just a briefcase delivery and media attention delivery service, because the CEO of Czech Television has the resources to pull the money out of the 7 billion into the briefcase and make sure that only those invited to the TV will be invited. Once I get to the second part, I will name again all those who were not invited to Czech Television. That's how it works until a certain moment when the CEO gets a little more power, he starts popping up. Well, then he comes to him and he says, "You, you, you, we're gonna put together your annual reports here, and then if we don't approve two in a row, we're gonna call off the whole Council, we're gonna choose it whole, the House is gonna choose the whole Council whatever it wants, depending on how the election results turn out, and we're gonna call you off. You're going. Bye, bye, la la la. No democracy, nothing independent. We here in the House, the mob that's gonna have the greatest power, we're gonna take a stick and shoot you down. And the CEO will listen, and suddenly we have a TV full of people who weren't there before. So I'll wait those four seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u92	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. And I ask for your second speech, in which you will probably present the motion for a resolution and justify it, as the detailed debate asks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u93	The motion for a resolution has already been made: 'The Chamber of Deputies is rejecting the pressure political action on the appeal of Councillor Czech Television, engineer Hana Lipovská, ph', because she is the only woman who represents the public's interests in the present council and informs about the lawlessness that is taking place both in the Czech Television and in the news of Czech Television, which, according to Mrs Hana Lipovská, is biased, even in this situation that concerns the case. I will repeat this: Professor Žďárský was not allowed into Czech TV, who invented cheap PCR tests for 50 crowns, so the covide mafia connected to the media mafia sells us its PCR tests for 1,200 crowns, while we could have Czech tests for 50 crowns. Czech television did not allow Professor Žďárský to inform the general public about this. Then we have Mr Omar Šerý, who proved that the COVID-19 virus is not found in small stores, or in mail offices, or in large supermarkets, because he performed two tests independently of himself, when he did not find the COVID-19 virus at the post office, where there were 1,600 people and over 20 surfaces, displays, hands, air and so on and so on. He didn't find a single virus. He repeated it in the shopping center of Shantovka, where he also found no virus at 6,000 people. [[14.50 hours]] There was a message today, or two days ago, now I don't know, maybe sometime in between, so yesterday, that the Prague subway is totally safe, infectable. On the subway, please, without the respirators, dogs, cats, somebody's ferret. In the Prague subway, without respirators, homeless people drive around, drunk foreigners vomit there without respirators, some 20 to 30 percent of Pražan who ride the subway have either a bad set or an old or canvas blanket on their mouths, so clearly, if they are infectious, they can spread the virus. And there are hundreds, maybe thousands of people who don't respect illegal government regulations. And not one active covid virus was found in this Prague metro, so we know it is scientifically confirmed by three studies that covid is not spread in enclosed rooms and spaces. How come it wasn't on Czech TV? Why doesn't Czech Television inform about this? Why doesn't the Czech Television inform that the director of Czech Television is in multiple conflict of interest? When was the last time Mrs Lipovská was invited to television with someone who had an opinion about her, perhaps on Mr Moravec's show, so that it was either two people who agreed that the director was in conflict of interest and two people who disagreed? When did this happen, please, for the last time in the Czech Television broadcast, that there would be the same space for representatives of opponents, representatives and protesters such as the Free Block to inform about scientific experience? When was the last time Professor Turánek was invited, who knows he's not being vaccinated with us, but that what you're getting is gene therapy that's streaming all over your body right now, right now he's settling on your brain, on your internal organs, on your ovaries, on your testicles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u94	Please bring your debate back to Czech Television.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u95	This is what has never been said on Czech television and these things are criticized by Mrs Lipovská, criticized by the management, criticized by the fact that Czech TV loses assets, depreciation goes beyond investment, the money that was spent on savings, unclear contracts, blackened contracts, we must not know the salaries of employees, we must not know the salaries of companies that work with them. I am unable to find out how the plaintiff, Mrs Sommerová, is involved in financing or in the flow of funds from Czech Television, because I cannot access the information from public sources. And now she can't just honestly say that she proves that she's not financially dependent on Czech TV, because we're not gonna find out because we don't know if she's sucking or sucking up. Anyway, we know that she's involved in the film industry, but we know that the relationships are tied up there, and if Mrs. Sommerová wants to, she'll definitely get some money from Czech Television or get some money. Maybe she got them in the past for one of her movies, and maybe now she's just paying off some of her media mob debts. Perhaps that should also be said, Madame, in the last 10 years, 20 years. I know you've been awarded the award of the Minister of Health of the GDR, the Communist GDR for your work. I know you've been awarded the Minister of Communist Czechoslovak Socialist Republic for your work, I know that, but I wonder how much money you've been getting for your work through Czech Television over the past 20 years. I would also like you to prove this by uncovering the contracts that have been signed between you, the Czech Television, or some service organization of Czech Television, because otherwise you are simply in conflict of interest for me, and you are in the position of a person who has been corrupted to remove from Czech Television the only tiny girl who, thanks to her intelligence, over 200 points, simply annoys the media mafia, who currently steals 7 billion crowns every year. I think the public deserves that answer. I assume that you will still have the opportunity and that you will explain to us that you are completely impartial because over the last 20 years you haven't received a crown from Czech Television, that you haven't done anything purposefully, that you are not performing purposefully in favour of the current management of Czech Television, that you haven't purposefully soiled the only person here who has the courage to publicly criticize the conditions on Czech Television both economic and ideological. For me personally, all your appearances and especially the second-to-last, when you told us here that Mrs Lipovská is in conflict of interest because she does not agree with the opinion of Czech Television, there was something - it was not really explained by you either. How can anyone first be in conflict of interest because they have a different opinion than Czech Television? And two. What is the Czech Television entitled to its own opinion? Czech TV isn't here to give her an opinion. Czech TV is here to provide the service that I, as a concessionaire, pay for, and not to explain to me that she, Czech television, has an opinion. He was already here one of those councillors who said that the news of Czech television was given because it is simply pro-eurounitarian because we are in the European Union. There was a councilman like him who wasn't apolitical at all. How come he wasn't called off at the time? How is it that the House did not call him off when it clearly served in favour of the political whole of the European Union? He was not in favour of all the concessionaires who contributed to his salary every day. How is that possible? You don't care about Mr. Kühn here either. How is that possible? He's a man who's obviously in conflict of interest. You didn't even call the Minister of Culture to explain it to you at my request. How is it possible that he employs and pays someone who is a councilman of the Czech Republic? This is the Councillor of the Czech Republic, which influences politically the Minister of Culture, a member of the ČSSD, and you let it go. Not to mention the list of many councillors I've read here who've run for office before. They ran for ODS, ran for CSSD, ran for other parties, and also performed as alderman. Even in their case, it was exactly the same situation as today with Mrs Lipovská. So I am asking everyone to support this resolution of mine, and in particular, through Mr President, I ask you, Tomio, not to allow your preferential rights and the possibility of pervading Hanka Lipovská, a woman - a hero who stood up to the media mafia, to withdraw from the councilman's post. I ask each individual, or I ask every single member of the SPD, to have the courage when the police are trying to get me to stand by my side, because I will stand here because the situation from the past will be repeated. And you know that even if Tomio decides not to obsess, you have your conscience. You have your own conscience, you voted for Hanka, you voted for the situation on Czech television to change. Please. Please, Radek Rozvoral, do it. Monica -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u96	I ask you again to address your colleagues through the President. It's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u97	Through the President, Radek and Monika, do the right thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u98	Your time. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u99	I know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u100	I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate? Mr. Chairman Michálek with priority rights. Please. Mr. Volný, allow your colleague to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u101	I won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u102	I'm calling you to clear up the pitch. You know what you're doing doesn't belong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u103	It belongs, people in the Czech Republic need to know that the Mafia is calling off the only woman who courageously fought against the Mafia in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u104	Ambassador, you know how I feel about this behavior of yours. I find him impolite. Let's try this one more time. Clear the pitch, there's a debate going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u105	You have the right to appear, be sure to get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u106	Dear Member, I'm giving you a reminder and please leave the rhetorical area. In case you disobey, you'll be banished, which is clearly your plan, you've already said so. [[Member Lubomír Free continues to remain at the speaker's counter.]] So, honourable Member, since you disobeyed even after the warning, in accordance with Section 19, I am declaring you until the end of the day of the hearing. You, the other colleagues, again - because you already know it, it is not the first time - I will ask you for 10, 15 minutes of interruption of negotiations before the intervention police deal with Mr. Free. Thank you, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u107	Since I don't have a gong, I'm really gonna wait until 3:30 so everyone has a chance to come. [[The microphone and other equipment in the place of the President were demolished in the process of escorting the Free Police Member out of the hall.]] Excuse me. I'll read the apology. Mrs Matušovská apologizes today to the end of the day for family reasons and Mr Richter from 14.15 for working reasons. So also Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes today, also for work reasons. [[The meeting continued at 3:30 p.m.]] We've got 3:30, we'll continue. We are in a detailed debate, and Mrs Olga Sommerová is signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the unanimous recommendation of the electoral committee, I propose to our plenary to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic withdraws Ms Hana Lipovská from the post of member of the Czech Television Council pursuant to Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, § 5 para. 2." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u109	Thank you. I ask, who else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate? No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. Now, I'd like to say the sentence that I'm summoning my colleagues from the lobby, but I can't. So I hope that we are all who know and can be present here. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll check you out, I'll ask for a new check-in. There have been two motions for resolutions. First of all, Mr Volný's proposal, which I wrote down as: "The Chamber of Deputies rejects the pressure of the media mafia on the appeal of Hana Lipovská from the Czech Television Council." Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 165, 84 Members registered, for 9, against 42. The motion was denied. We will therefore now vote on the motion for a resolution, as Mrs Sommerová put it a moment ago. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 166, registered 80, for 63, versus 11. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it. Member Lubomír Free Whistles.]] I'll ask Mr. Volný to leave the O.R. because the vote is over. With priority rights, Minister Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u110	I'm very sorry to keep you guys waiting, but I'd like to set something straight, because I found out that this place had fallen. I would like to say that René Kühn was not my advisor or I paid him in any way in 2021. In 2020, it is true that I had an external contract with him for February, only for February. He received CZK 4,800 for consulting on media legislation. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u111	Thank you, Minister. And given that... I am good myself - President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u112	For me, briefly explained. The name of Mr. stehlík, who ran for the Senate, fell here. He then ran as an independent candidate, not as a KDU-ČSL member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u113	To the vote? I'm begging for a moment of peace! To the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u114	To the last vote: I voted in favour, but I'm stuck on drugs. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-006-203.u115	Thank you. And since we have exhausted the approved agenda of the 118th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I am ending this meeting. And I'm glad there's one more to say goodbye a little better than today. Have a nice weekend.
