ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 14 and 15 / House prints 1163 and 1164/ Mr Petr Třešňák will be the first to speak in the merged general debate and Mr Ondřej Profant will be prepared. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u2	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this law, I really must commend the Ministry and the UHIS that, before we discuss it here in the Chamber of Deputies, they have actually offered the opportunity to participate in and comment on the very wording of the law, so I think there is nothing left to correct on it. I have read only one amendment, which I will then zoom in on. However, the law itself. In my opinion, it was supposed to be here at least ten years ago, and maybe not so much the law, but perhaps with directly managed organizations, a lot of these standards could have been defined by the Ministry, and there wasn't really a need for that law. However, the covid epidemic has shown us really inadequacies in this area, and although we actually have a definition of standard here today, not the application itself, so clearly the deployment of the electronicisation of health care will make health care in the Czech Republic more effective, including, for example, the control of financial complexity, including, for example, quality control, but also the availability of care. First of all, it will release the hands of medical personnel from unnecessary bureaucracy, but above all, it must become an asset especially for patients. And here I could also give examples right now from the covido period, when some had to fly between waiting rooms of individual specialists and carry really paper requests instead of going straight to the performance and the request landed there electronically. They burdened the whole system, the doctors, the nurses, and filled the waiting rooms. I will therefore be able not to speak long, to the amendment, which I will then only formally read in a detailed debate. We have proposed to shorten the deadline for the transition to a uniform standard from ten to five years, precisely in order to speed up the entire electronization, because the standards are one of the critical components, but above all, the greatest advantage is that if the providers are forced to do so earlier, they will have to switch to higher software versions and thus increase, for example, resistance within the cyber security of individual hospitals. Well, that's it, thank you, and then I'll sign up for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u3	Mr Milan Brázdil will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u4	Thank you in two minutes, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that one and zero, the electronization of health care, will save one of you's lives, you're very wrong. She's medicine is ars medicine. It's also the art of medicine to talk to a person and tell him a lot of other things than one, zero - and if it accelerates. By the way, I have now witnessed how the professor, who defends it, suddenly could not vote. He realized - actually, then the minister told him - you have to check out. Actually, she and the electronics, like the Houses, keep us from voting. The professor, an educated man, suddenly could not vote because the electronization of this House prevented him from doing so, making it difficult for him. You know, if you all think that we're here, that electronization, one and zero, will help the paramedics to get their hands free -- me as an urgentist, I don't care if you're in a swimsuit or naked in a sauna, and I'm not gonna have anything, so I'm gonna do my best to help, and that's what every doctor should do. And the one and zero, the electronization, doesn't save any of us, and often complicates life for doctors. It may not only be in the health sector, but also in all professions it leads to the fact that we do not actually have free hands. Mr President, you are not even measuring my time. [[He's looking at the light board.]] You're measuring, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u5	Please, Mr. Ambassador, I've got this under control. So you've got 14 seconds left, but I'll be benevolent for your care of my person, and I'll give you the extra five seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u6	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I can see it here. Three seconds and that's it. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u7	But, yeah, you can check in again. Now, on the point of fact, Mr Petr Třešňák, and at the same time, you have entered into a general debate, so if you have... no, you have already spoken. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u8	That's really just factual, I've already spoken in general. I'm just gonna respond briefly. I wasn't expecting a second reading discussion. I absolutely agree that the most important hands of doctors and nurses are all over the health care system, and without them, we wouldn't have to talk about any electronization at all. On the other hand, there are nearly 300 billion in the system. They need some efficiency control - more so, the Minister calls me. I'll give you an example from the last two months. I'm going to come up with post-covid pneumonia, and that's my example for X-rays. I'm gonna bring a PDF there because the intern sent it to me, and this is how I'm gonna show the request, and the answer is, I don't care about any PDF, get me a paper. So I'm gonna go back to the internship, back to the waiting room, waiting for the paper again, and then I'm gonna go happily back to X-ray with the paper. So these are exactly the things that are inadequate throughout the health system, and that is what this law is dealing with. I'm happy for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u9	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Vlastimil Válek, with priority for the general debate. In the meantime, I'll read the list of apologies. So Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologises between 14.30 and 15 hours for work reasons. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 14.30 to 15.45 for work reasons. Mr Jakub Michálek apologizes for reasons of work within 18 hours. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes between 14.30 and 18.00 for a doctor's visit. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for reasons of work between 14.30 and 23 hours. Please, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I originally wanted technical, but it's gonna be longer, so I wouldn't be able to make it in two minutes. First of all, thank you very much, by your help, Mr Brázdil. He's very right, and I really thank him, no kidding, because we need to discuss it. Not everyone works in health care, not everyone works in workplaces, which are, say, digital or are like X-rays, where PaX has been operating for 15 years. So obviously the pluses and the negatives are definitely not obvious. I also thank the PDF, by your means, Mr Třešňák, so that I can apostate. I would have fired you from our clinic, by your means, Mr President, Mr Cherry, too, because with the PDF on my cell phone, my technician would have to copy it, he would have to write it into the system, and that is the problem. So at the University Hospital Brno we have an electronic request that hangs on the website, through you, Mr. Vyzula will certainly confirm it, because this is how we communicate with the Yellow Hill. Any practical doctor anywhere in the Republic will simply open the entry portal www.fnbrzo.cz, fill in the request, the request will fall through the integration platform into the hospital radiological system and get me an X-ray. He doesn't give anything to anyone, he doesn't give a patient anything. Using another moderation developed by the Czech company, which is secured, which checks the patient's data using his phone number, his birth number and does not send him the information, but the patient actively downloads it, we send the patient information about the date, electronically again, if he has a mobile phone, if not, then of course he has to send it in a paper form, because many people, and that needs to be reckoned with, are patients sick, older and are even more terrified by the electronics than I am. And I'm terrified of electronization because I'm afraid my mom's gonna yell at me when I do something I can't handle right. But the fact is, it makes life easier, it reduces work. And now, by your means, I would reply to Mr Brázdil, as it makes life easier for him and makes work easier. Maybe he doesn't even realize it. I do not know how far their region is, but again, by your means, Mr Běhounek has introduced, and it is necessary to thank him for this, at the Highlands' involvement quickly in hospitals. The question is how much it works, but from my point of view, it doesn't work completely wrong. The result is that when a quick ambulance takes the patient to the hospital, it can go crazy in hospital information systems in the region and move the information to urgent income, so when the patient arrives for urgent income, they already have basic data about him from the hospital database of the region if he has been hospitalized somewhere. Practical impact, again in the conditions of the South Moravian Region, where, by having the honour or bad luck, it doesn't matter, three quarters of a year, you have the computer science center under you, so you have the things firsthand. So we got into a situation that he connected with a project that makes the region - no matter who the governor was, now it's coordinated by Mr. Grolich, the city, it's actually doing the previous coalition that was on the edge - it's just a project that's unpolitical, which is purely technical. Basically, all the hospitals have connected, and I'm in a situation where, technically, when a patient comes from any hospital in the South Moravian Region and comes to our hospital, I'm able to enter his documentation after his consent and using Ctrl+C to copy the information, output report and Ctrl+C to copy it into our system, and therefore really save quite a lot of work on rewriting, with the creation. It's just that the electronic documentation shifts considerably. Of course, there have been objections from a number of colleagues: we want to do the tests ourselves, we want to see the patient. So it's not about medicine becoming virtual, and just like after virtual eating, everyone's hungry, after virtual treatment, everyone's gonna get sick. It's not like that, but such endless copying of papers, such printing of second, third, fourth, copy, it should end. And I am very glad that we have moved on to defining, on the one hand, those models of integration platforms, that we define under what conditions a user can buy a system to make a user in a hospital And he was communicating with system B. I experienced this here when we set up Professor Caramell and other DICOM EuroPACS and defined DICOM Standard. And none of you doctors here are aware - although perhaps through you, Mr. She recalled that when the CT was beginning to be spiral, when resonance appeared, digitalization appeared in radiology, so every company - Siemens, Philips - had its DICOM format and only their browser could fully read the DICOM format. And maybe you remember, the older colleagues who are here, and maybe some of the fellow Members who are here, if there were patients at the time, that when they examined you at the workplace and you took those pictures on your CD to Workplace B, it was an unsolvable problem because they couldn't convert them there. The initiative that was launched by Professor Caramella at the time, and I had the privilege of being the secretary of the party, so we basically standardized the DICOM format to 3.1.1. We put a knife to our necks together with colleagues from the United States and Japan to big companies and they had to define in the end that 80 percent, I suspect, is 80 percent, DICOM format, is completely uniform and 20 is for their information. [[15.10 hours]] You're not gonna happen today if they examine you when they do a digital scan of your lungs when they do a CT scan of your brain, any kind of examination anywhere in the world that you couldn't examine in any country in the world, the way that you don't, if you take a photo in a RAW format that you couldn't look at that picture in a browser, it's totally normal. But there was a time when it wasn't normal because RAW format wasn't like RAW format. And we're also moving this in health care, so we want that if I have hospital A - and that should be the target - and I have hospital B, hospital A has its information system, hospital B has its information system, patient from hospital A goes to hospital B so I can move information from one to another hospital electronically so I don't have to wear it so I don't have to copy it so it's as safe as moving images. Let me give you some specific examples. We have two transplant centers that are only recipients of patients, and patient documentation flows into the transplant centers, the tests, the support, they do hospitals in the Republic. And it's good for transplant centers to make their course much easier, so they get the information electronically. It is beneficial and good for patients so that the physician can simply send the information he has to the hospital and vice versa. Of course, in certain areas of medicine, such as urgent medicine, and I absolutely underline the importance of digitalization can be much smaller, because where it is about saving lives and where it is an emergency doctor's decision, it is no computer, hardware, as he said, by your means, fellow Member Brázdil, will not replace, no zeros and no ones, we all realize that. But the way to standardization, the way that the system communicates throughout the Republic, that information about patients goes where the patient wants to go in agreement with his attending physician, and that the patient is not a messenger who carries the various documents from one hospital to another like a hen's guide, loses them on the way and gets them again and again, that's the right way. I'm very glad we got off on it, and I hope it'll be a successful journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u11	Now two factual points. Mr David Kasal will be the first to speak and Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be prepared. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd like to respond to Professor War, the great Professor of Válek, through you. Yes, that's right, what was said here. Basically, the law should define the interfaces in general so that the software can communicate with each other. But we're not talking about a second thing that's much more important, and that's a B that's quiet along the path - and it's not gonna work without it: there's got to be some standardised text. Because in a moment -- you said not to write it, I agree with you -- but in a moment, if I write that I have a sibling who was born two years ago, and I'm not going to write that he was born, say, the sixth month of 2008, I'm going to rewrite it, because the text isn't complete. [[2018?]] Many disciplines use shortcuts that the second branch doesn't understand. So it's going to be the second revolution in that he's going to have to agree on a medical condition to have some standardised text that he's going to understand from Brno to Aš. And there's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u13	Mr Rostislav Vyzula will now make a point of fact and Mr Ondřej Profant will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, it's true, firsts and zeros don't cure a patient. That's right. On the other hand, on the other hand, I think all those who practice medicine, we know how enormously the health administration has increased over the last few years, and that is the main problem. Because if the doctor has to deal with the paperwork, he won't be able to deal with the patient the way we did with the nurses in the past period. I took care of this issue because since 1992 we have had some kind of electronization, electronization communication between all departments in the Cancer Institute in Brno. Thus, an oncologist with a surgeon, a surgeon with a radiologist, an oncologist with a pathology, with everyone. It's an enormous saving of time. But what I would like to stress is that it is most appreciated by doctors themselves after all these years of using it, but the most appreciated and appreciated by patients, because we all know very well that it is often not an easy agreement with the patient, because they are stressed, do not remember it or do not remember it, and in this way all misunderstandings are removed. So that's why I've worked with the Ministry as well as with the Sub-Committee on Electronization in Health, so that this law will come. It is now a legislative standard that can be worked on. It's gonna take a lot of work, but it's gonna save a lot of work for doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u15	Mr David Kasal's point of order is now in effect and Mr Ondřej Profant is still prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'll fill in the previous performances. There's two other things. One thing is, there's been talk of a patient, but even the patient needs to get his hands on something so he knows exactly how to use it. He's been under a lot of stress with the doctor. We tell him, he walks out the door and he can't remember what to take. So that's another necessary assumption to make the system complete. And the second thing, because we've been electronizing since 1993 and two things are enough. For example, if you change the software all over the hospital, suddenly you find out how vulnerable you are because you send requests to the lab, you send messages to your colleagues... The moment they turn it off or blackout, you don't have access to the data. So there's a paper form that's printed in cards that's very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u17	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u18	By your means, I would like to underline the words of my predecessors. By your means, I am only going to answer Mr Vyzula. The radiologist always makes a deal, that's our middle name - to make a deal and to be willing to make a deal. By your means, the MP knows this better than I do, who likes to negotiate like radiologists. After all, I'm a shining example here in the House, I hope. Seriously. The fact is that standardization of these findings is essential. In radiology, we standardized the request, and what came across was the resistance of our colleagues. And here will be a great role for the ministry, which I call on the Minister to do, the Scientific Council, the Council of Providers, to agree that findings are being standardised, descriptions are being standardised, requests are being standardised. Standardized protocol is something that is a standard in most countries west of us, and even in some Eastern countries, but here the report is still perceived as part of a work of art, and not as a factual summary of patient data, which should be universally understandable. I would like to thank Mr Kasal for putting me on one more point, and this is the unfortunate request of the radiological one. The next step we're about to take is for the insurance company to accept that it doesn't need a printed request with the signature of the indicator and performing doctor, which is what's going on today. Paper applications - in our hospital we had the first PACS in the Czech Republic. I've actually experienced four PACS exchanges and five exchange of radiological information systems, and it's always been hell. Now we're going to have another one, and I hope I'm not there by then, which is why I agreed to it, of course. And what I'd like to say is that we have our paper applications precisely because of the insurance company, because I can't submit an electronic request during insurance checks, I have to submit a request in writing with the signature of the indicated doctor and the signature of the doctor describing the examination. This must also change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u19	Mr Ondřej Profant will now appear and prepare Mr František Petrtýl. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u20	It has already been said in some form. I would like to point out that this law is only a very fundamental basis. It's just the minimum that's needed, but what's really important and what the Minister and the Ministry have to be really careful about is high-quality, modern, open standards, because exactly without what we've had here right now from practice, we're not going to move. And they must be all over the health department. Of course, such standards exist, and we just need to discuss it sufficiently, to prepare them to be really deployable across the health sector, because of course we know what the reality of health care is. We know that, for example, a lot of machines run on unsupported software, that suppliers totally don't give a shit about cyber security. These are just things we know, we have them confirmed, and we need to fight them. And here's the last appeal to the Minister. This change will not be possible without good methodological support from the Ministry. You can't say that: hospital, make it happen. This must be a strong team that understands both cyber security, which, of course, helps the SACUIB and the standards. And without that health care, he'll never make a comprehensive eHealth, where data is really flowing, and it's in favor of both patients and doctors, which I hope we all want here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u21	Mr František Petrtýl and the rapporteur will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the complex of laboratory examinations represents a large volume of services and resources spent on public health insurance. At present, health insurance companies usually learn about the examinations carried out once a month in the context of the billing of provided health services, but without knowledge of the outcome of the examination. However, without knowledge of the outcome of the examination, health insurance companies cannot properly carry out a comprehensive assessment of the health care reported. Getting this information by physical check with a doctor is to the extent necessary unrealistic and for a physician burdening. In addition, health insurance companies will also now be able to increase their clients' health literacy and motivate their interest in health prevention. The required regulation allows health service providers to notify health insurance companies of the results of laboratory examinations within 24 hours and thus to provide them with valuable data, among other things, for evaluating the relevance of repeated examinations for the patient's health status and thus optimize the scope and availability of laboratory health services. The absence of results for health insurance tests proved to be a serious weakness in the COVID-19 pandemic period. I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u23	So now the rapporteur, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, will be the last to appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to comment briefly on my amendment, which I will later apply to. It is more or less a cosmetic change to the Health Services Act, where in Art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 determines the importance of giving a birth number. This is due to the gradual decline in the use of the birth number. It is the Act on the Electronisation of Health that introduces the patient identifier and the identifier of the healthcare professional. The aim is to identify the patient or healthcare professional clearly in the information systems. It is essential that the patient identifier and the health care professional identifier be included in the National Health Information System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-010-999.u25	Now I'll read the apology. He is Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. apologizes between 15 and 19 o'clock due to a doctor's visit. So I will now look at whether anyone else is still reporting to the merged general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the merged general debate. Now I ask if there is interest in the final words? Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? Not interested. So we will now open a detailed debate on each press separately. First point
