ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u1	13. Proposal by Members Marian Jurečka, Zbyněk Stanjura, Martin Kolovratník and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended/the House Print 1304/ - First Reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as Parliament's press 1304/1. I prosit that the motion put forward by Mr Marian Jurečka as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u2	Good afternoon. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to briefly justify the proposal for this amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, in short, an issue relating to the assessment of the EIA. I would like to say that this minor amendment is crucial for two transport constructions, namely the completion of the D1 motorway in the section Říkovice-Přerov-Předmostí and also the completion of the D49 transport artery in the section Hulín and Fryštát. I will try briefly, and then I will quote some parts of the explanatory report, explain why we took the liberty of presenting this amendment with a group of Members, because, in view of the legislation in this law, and in view of the fact that priority transport constructions had been set here in the past, there were ten of them, which were also negotiated with the European Commission, where it was envisaged that these transport constructions would not have to be carried out after the amendment of the EIA Act, so these transport constructions had this exception for five years. Today we are in a situation where it is very likely that the five-year deadline for the completion of all the authorisation processes and the opening of the construction may not be possible for these two remaining buildings out of ten, unfortunately, and there is a great deal of concern, based on legal interpretations, that at that point in this, let's say, second stage of the appeals proceedings, it could occur that at the moment when the validity of the EIA would have been interpreted so that the possibility of a five-year exemption to start the construction would have expired, so actually the whole appeal process could have ended and it would have to start completely from the beginning, that means that a completely new EIA would have to be done and the whole process of the building authorisation procedure would have to develop again. This would mean, in practice, that in case of D1, we could actually expect to complete it in five, eight and ten years. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I would like to say that this minor amendment will not have negative effects on the environment, because this assessment has been carried out. The EIA was released here, it was realized. The failure to adopt this law may result in the state having to spend hundreds, perhaps billions of crowns for the whole process that it would have to carry out again, and I do not count other negative externalities affecting people who suffer because there is an extremely difficult traffic situation in Přerov and its surroundings. This matter concerns not only the people of Olomouc and Zlín Region, but it concerns all citizens who use D1 whether it is our internal transport or international transport. So I would like to ask that at first reading we agree with this minor amendment and do so in an environment that is legally clearly readable and predictable. I would like to quote some of the parts of the explanatory memorandum, which I think summarize this very accurately, and I think that it should be said here: "The validity of the binding opinion on the effects of the priority project on the environment is five years under the legislation in force. The possible legal interpretation of the question of the validity of this binding opinion is that, at the time of the legal power of the administrative authority's decision at first or second instance, the opinion must be valid. This fact, therefore, concerning the last two priority buildings out of a total of ten, which have not yet been issued all necessary building permits for their implementation, is the construction of the D1 Říkovice-Přerov and D49 Hulín-Fryštát motorway, a serious problem for the preparation of construction sites, where, in view of the current regulation of decision-making processes under the construction law, and in particular the active activities of interest associations cannot be achieved during the period of validity of the binding opinion of the final building permit for the whole construction, regardless of the very advanced stage of the preparation of projects of these buildings. As a result, in the event that a binding opinion binds its validity to the legal assistance of the subsequent decision, it will be necessary to have the EIA's new position drawn up, of course, for the whole project, not just for the missing, that is to say, previously unauthorized building buildings. Consequently, it is necessary to consider the possible consequences of the new EIA assessment on today's already legally authorised and often already implemented partial building permit regarding some construction buildings, when technical standards have also changed in the meantime." That's what I think describes the hotness of this subject, and I don't want to delay it any longer. I would ask very much for a brief and effective discussion and for these buildings to be implemented for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u3	I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Dana Balcarová, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to submit to the start of my report that I very much understand the problems of people who are affected and suffer from the fact that these two buildings, which are concerned by the amendment, are not yet built. However, I must add that the draft amendment, House press 1304, seeks to extend the validity of the binding EIA position for selected transport buildings, because the state has not been able to decide on their implementation after more than 20 years. Moreover, the parliamentary proposal is to be discussed in an accelerated regime, i.e. without discussion in committees and the possibility to make amendments. Another deficiency is the fact that Members come forward with a proposal in five minutes twelve minutes before the elections and force us to vote on the matter in a shortened regime, without any detailed analysis. The amendment is prepared for two constructions only, namely D1 Říkovice-Přerov and D49 Hulín-Fryštát. For these constructions, the state organisation ŘSD is not able to obtain the necessary permits after more than 20 years. Members of the amendment in question in the explanatory memorandum claim without any evidence that environmental associations are responsible for time delays. In doing so, local people who are affected by the consequences of the constructions in question only sent their comments to the authorities within a legal period and the authorities have two to three months to deal with these comments. Indeed, in time lags, ping-pong between investors and authorities, which last for years, and delays in decision-making harm the economy and citizens' confidence in the state. I would also like to stress that the EIA process falls under European legislation. The main deficiency in the proposal is the absence of the European Commission's observations. We do not know that this is not a breach of the agreement and that we will not cut ourselves off from the possibility of financing the construction from European Union funds. [[15.40 hours]] And I have a few questions. Why didn't the government come in time with the proposal so that the proposal for a hearing could be standardized? Why should we limit the transparency and predictability of decision making when the problem was known a year ago? And why, in the case of the two buildings in question, was no exception granted by the Ministry of the Environment? Therefore, I cannot agree, as rapporteur, to discuss it in an accelerated regime, and I therefore suggest to the House that the printing of 1304 be discussed in a standard regime, even because of the time needed to complement the European Commission's observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u5	I am opening a general debate in which I have an MEP who is Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Minister, I have one thing to say. We're always here when we were talking about speeding up the construction of new buildings, finding a match, and I have to say, unfortunately, some of our efforts are still limited by purposefully some of the people in the civil community, see bypass the Jaroměř. A classic example of money, unfortunately, the person is erudized in court law, so it looks like he's going to be trying to break the 40 in the amended version, just like we all approved it here. I think: whether or not the European Commission is to comment on this is another step in the negotiations, and I would like to appeal to all of you here that D1 is actually a backbone communication, a link between the Czech countries with Moravia and Silesia, and that it is such an important point, and the EIA has already been there. The fact that this hasn't been done, we're going to do it here many more times, because unfortunately our construction law in the field of line construction is still insufficient. The next House will have to deal with this, and I think it will be more intense than we do. That has to be said, because actually the fantasies were some, but the reality is different. And again, we are entering time slips that threaten citizens' lives, endangering our economy, competitiveness within Europe and around the world. I don't think there's any room at this point to say that this should be done in normal driving. We all know that all unfinished laws fall under the so-called table and that we will again delay and push the deadline to discuss this problem for months, if not years. So I would ask that we actually take some sense into the hand, so that we don't worry about it and try to discuss this bill here in an accelerated reading so that, of course, we can send it to the Senate for assessment, and it is still assessed so that it can come into force. I believe that common sense will eventually prevail in the Senate, although they are a little bit more concerned with the nature of the laws, the legality, the comparison with the different rights. It is their task, however, I believe that senators also live in different areas of our republic and see that our people simply need to reach the end, that in the end healthy common sense will prevail and that we will succeed. Please approve of this in an accelerated reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u7	Mr Martin Kolovratník has now joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u8	Good afternoon. Thank you. Briefly, I'll follow up on Ivan Adamec. I am one of the petitioners who signed here under this proposal, and I am responding to the rapporteur, Mrs Balcarová, as well. We - please, and it's good - don't force, we don't force you, we're really good, we're asking that there's a match here in the House. And, you know, my colleague or colleagues, I've been to the story since the last parliamentary term since 2013, 2014 and I know that Ivan Adamec was also there on the Economic Committee during the previous parliamentary term. We really did put out the fire and the problem with the failing EIA in those ten large strategic infrastructure structures. Even then we showed, perhaps it was some sort of vanguard or in quotation marks an appetizer to future agreements over line law, over the 400th, that, regardless of the political jersey, the constructions that we consider strategic, important for the development of the state, for the economy, for the development of regions and attention - and here again I am turning towards Mrs Balcarová - and for the ecology in those municipalities that are now burdened by transport, where they drive under their windows, they are loud and there are exhalations that we can agree on. At the time, it is a big part - and it is worth thanking you for saying it here again, backwards, publicly - the then Prime Minister for Social Democracy played Sobotka, who personally negotiated the exceptions, the ten buildings, actually the concept of the law, the changes in the European Union, so that we could not come across it, he managed it then, and he deserved a great thank you for it. And these are two of them, which is why we came up with this request now, and I mean, when Marian Jurečka approached me -- maybe it's some kind of symbol again, look how we were arguing politically in the shadow of the election a while ago, but we can agree on this, just across multiple sides. When Marian Jurečka approached me at the end of August, I didn't hesitate for a second, because I don't see it as extending the EIA. She is published, it is decided, it is judged, we really just want the legal status, those relations of the sections under the EIA Act, to straighten up and say that if there are any appeals, often procedural, only for procedural reasons, so that in those other stages, in the follow-up proceedings, she is considered to have been issued at a time when the EIA was valid and may not be repeated. Nothing more, nothing less. And let's be honest with each other. Again, I will stick to the example Ivan Adamec said, the Jaroměř. I'm the one who has to say it, and maybe I'll be a little provocative right now - it really feels like doping and doping control to me. We always think of something, we make the law, we make the line constructions. We've worked on the building bill here, but again those who want to take advantage of it, and they'll be two minutes before midnight, at the end of the deadline, sending some kind of appeal through the data box only for procedural reasons, not content - on the subject, on the subject - but only that they want to examine whether the letters were sent properly, if all the government authorities concerned have properly expressed themselves and so on, in short, we will remain in the enchanted circle. Jaroměř is a typical example of what ŘSD is dealing with there now. The Greeks-Přerov, Hulín-Fryšták are not... It's not my region, I'm primarily living on the D35 motorway, so I have information mediated by my colleagues, but I don't know that ŘSD treats people there in some horrible way that it destroys ecologically valuable areas and so on. Perhaps colleagues from the Olomouc Region can follow me up and clarify, I know about it, I personally asked the CEO Radek Mátl. He goes there, tries to act, tries to find the agreement, but simply opposers are who they are, and once again abuse the complex, complicated settings of our legislation. And I'm just gonna hope that one day, when the building bill starts to work, we'll avoid these problems, too. Today we simply want to help two construction sites, the last of the list of ten, and I ask you to lean to our proposal and give them a chance to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u9	I'll read an apology. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes from today's meeting from 15.30 to 16 o'clock for work reasons. Mr. Milan Feranec has the floor. He has signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not often that I would praise the opposition, but we must really thank Mr Jurečka for the submission, the initiation of the proposal, and the words said by his colleague Adamec, and for me, of course, this bill is a last-minute solution - we all know that this is a solution - but such an island of rational thinking in our unfortunate election time. And that's how it is, so I'm just saying, please, let's finish this discussion, let's keep the island of the positive deviance, as he said, I think, some Mr. President, and I'm really in favour and I'm in charge of approving the proposal, because we're finally doing this for those people in Přerov, Moravia, Hulín and so on. So I really appreciate this debate, and please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-010-013.u11	I have no further application for the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? She is neither the appellant nor the rapporteur, so we will now decide, pursuant to Section 90 (5), on the continuation of this proposal. [[Gong.]] I'm gonna sing. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1304 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' [[15.50 hours]] I'll wait a little longer. There's an interest in signing off, so I'm gonna check you out and sign up again with your voting cards. To be sure, I will repeat once again what resolution we will be voting on, so I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Parliaments of the Press 1304 so that consent can be given to it at first reading'. Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 117 Members signed in for 98, versus 2. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am opening a detailed debate in which I have no one to report to, so I am ending a detailed debate. Or do I ask if there's still interest in the final words? It's not, so we're going to take a vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Marian Jurečka, Zbyněk Stanjura, Martin Kolovratník and others to issue a law amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, pursuant to House Press 1304." [[Environmental Impact Assessment Act]] Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 82, registered 118 Members, for 102, against none. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and the hearing is adjourned. [[Let's hear it for some Members.]] Let's open another point number.
