ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws, returned by the Senate / House print 545/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 545/11. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Jan Holásek among us, a good day, and I ask that Minister of Justice Marie Benešová speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as this government proposal is concerned, it has passed through a number of development stages, as it has travelled to the Senate, where I must commend the Senate for having devoted itself to this law and also organized a round table, where we had the opportunity to comment on all the points of dispute and where this law was tuned. I think it's even succeeded. The Senate has approved an amendment to this House press which complements the regulation of the order of accounting for partially recovered execution in the execution of the decision and the execution of the principal's interest, late payment interest and costs. This is a special provision only for the purposes of enforcement of a decision or execution. Furthermore, the judicial executor's obligation to claim an advance on the costs of execution, the first advance, is renegotiated by the suspension of the execution for the non-compilation of the advance on the costs of execution, changes the legislation on the stopping of the resulting executions for the future, in particular the new provision that the advance on the further management of the execution will be mandatory. Furthermore, the 6 - 3 - 3 years schedule is maintained. It follows from the transitional provision that in executions initiated before the effective date of the law, a period of time which has elapsed before the effective date of the law, but which will not exceed one year from the date of entry into force, will be counted for a period of up to six years. It also adds the provision of delivery to the central office plate of the Executive Chamber. We might have some further reservations about this latest version, but after assessing everything that has happened, I take a favourable position on this Senate proposal, albeit certain reservations persist, but I believe that this Senate version, if the Chamber of Deputies accepts it in this way, will be a reliable guarantee that this law will work as it should. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u3	I now ask that Senator Jan Holásek take the floor and, if they wish to comment on the amendments tabled, then the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, or the rapporteur of the Social Policy Committee, Member Aleš Juchelka. Please, Senator, you have the floor. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present a report on the discussion of this bill in the Senate. As has already been said here, we have addressed the issue in detail, including the fact that a round table has been organised, including the fact that we have been intensively communicating with representatives of both the Chamber of Deputies and the professional public. The result was, in fact, a double set of amendments - on the one hand, a comprehensive amendment adopted by the Social Committee of the Senate and then supplemented by the amendments tabled by the group of senators. As far as the contents are concerned, the full majority has already been introduced to the Minister of Justice. I would only like to add that the issue of local jurisdiction or territoriality has not been included in the Senate approved amendment. In fact, we have come up with a compromise approach, and we have decided not to deal with this matter. And then, as far as the content requirements are concerned, in addition to what the Minister has already mentioned here - I will not repeat this - I would just like to add that in the amendment adopted by the Senate, it is proposed to exclude the application of increased protection to legal persons in the case of Mobilitarian Enforcement, that is to say, only natural persons should be involved. Furthermore, the Senate proposes that the executive file be made available electronically, which means more efficient. Finally, the so-called Grace Summer, which has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies, should also apply to health insurance. A number of proposals are legislatively technical, which specify or functionalize the system of amendments in such a way that it all works together as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u5	I have now been informed that the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee - the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Mr Marek Výborný, will be heard in the debate, is registered. Mr Aleš Juchelka, rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy, is not interested in expressing himself at this stage, so I am opening up a debate. Now I see three factual points - Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Olga Richterová and Mr Hana Aulická, but that is probably something from the last point. It's gotta be done with software, because it's happened to me the second time we've got two points mixed up here. It's just the fact that it's bouncing in here. In the debate, Mr Marek is the first to speak Výborný and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u6	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, Government, fellow Members, I would first fulfill my duty as rapporteur for the Guaranteed Constitutional Law Committee here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform you that, as rapporteur, I have been intensively communicating with the senators, including Senator Holásek's rapporteur, following the approval of the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Enforcement Order. Following the approval of the modified version, returned by the Senate to us here to the Chamber of Deputies, I also convened a subcommittee on the issues of execution, insolvency and debt, where I introduced all representatives of Members' clubs with modifications and changes and discussed the positions of individual clubs for this Senate return. So much in brief, i.e. the duty of the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. [[14.40 hours]] Now let me briefly speak for the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club on the changes that the senators are returning to us. I would like to begin by thanking you very much for the cooperation of the entire upper chamber and Senator Holásek as rapporteur, but also all others, because, indeed, at the moment when we approved the biggest adjustments in executions in the last twenty years or at all for the history of enforcement enforcement in the Czech Republic, I guess we were, many of us, aware that there are a number of things that need to be adjusted in some way in the Senate, and that is why I entered immediately into communication with the senators. I also thank Senators Šárka Jelínková, Anička Hubáčková and Miluša Horská for the arrangement of the round table, as the Minister has already mentioned. It was very important and perhaps it could be an example for other such fundamental and important standards approved by the Chamber of Deputies, because not only senators and representatives of the Ministry of Justice met at the round table at the Senate, but also representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and of the various MPs who were invited, and there it was important to discuss the Senate's procedure as a whole so that, if possible, we could have easier decisions here in the House, let's say, also the political decision-making over the result that is returned to us from the Senate. I think it's actually done, and it's actually due to the entire upper chamber. I am aware that, of course, a better option would be if we sent a great version to the Senate so that the Senate could approve it, and the law was already completed on the Senate's soil, but given the complexity of the entire standard, whether the order of execution or the order of civil law, this did not work out, so all the more I am glad for the support from the upper chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u7	Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u8	Thank you, it has already happened in itself. Thank you for taking a short look at the changes that are coming back from the Senate because they are not entirely cosmetic, the Minister and the rapporteur have already been mentioned here. I'm just gonna make a quick and brief statement about what we've been able to discuss with the senators and what's coming back. The first essential thing that is very important, and that is the adjustment of repayment first to the principal and then to accessories, that is interest, periodic penalty payments, costs and so on. This measure, which was already contained in the version of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, fell out during the third reading, the Senate returns it and it is correct. The second thing, the second circuit that we discussed with the senators, is the question of humanizing humanization, humanization of Mobiliar executions. The amendment that we tabled here in the House with my colleague Patrik Nacher, Marek Benda and a number of others, actually cross-membered clubs, and that is where one very important thing is changing at the moment. It would be very unfair to serious creditors, because not every creditor is automatically a scumbag or a loan shark or anything like that, so it would be unserious if the debtor had some luxury property, such as a collection of paintings, precious jewelry and the like, so that he would be able to effectively avoid Mobiliar execution if he paid CZK 1,500 a month beyond the mandatory repayment. Therefore, the senators incorporated, supplemented by this rule, that if the inventory of valuable movable assets exceeds the limit of 36 such monthly instalments, then the Mobiliar execution will be carried out and the creditor's claim will be met immediately and not often within a period of several years. It's a helpful step towards serious creditors, and I think that's okay. It would be unfair for a debtor with similar assets to avoid mobiliar executions for a really long time. Another important thing. We've been communicating with representatives of the Executor Chamber. On their initiative, the changes that the senators have approved have been accepted, and this is a delay in the obligation to record phone calls made by executive authorities for one year so that authorities can prepare themselves for this, including the acquisition of software and so on. It is a helpful step that I think is appropriate in this sense. At the same time, we also added the duty of the executor to hand over or make available to the debtor a complete file free of charge once a year so that we can also give access to the CD-ROM file via the central repository set up by the Executive Chamber so that we can actually lead the entire system in parameters of the 21st century. This is what I think is also fine, and I thank the senators for adding this change. The third circuit, and I would say that it is most important that, aside from the small details of setting up a central office plate and making delivery more efficient - what did not originally pass here in the House, the senators also returned it - that is basically a minor thing, but making the whole execution process more effective is the question of stopping those futile, so-called ineffective executions. Here I think it's important to point out a few things. First, the creditor's obligation to pay the advance at the beginning of the procedure will not be compulsory, or the advance will not be mandatory, but will be mandatory after a period of six, three or three years, respectively. This comes back this way. In other words, the regime adopted by the House is maintained, 6 - 3 - 3, that is, to stop a failed execution, without a successful execution will only be possible after six years, only if, on the basis of the executor's call, the creditor does not pay the advance. I would like to thank the Minister here for the fact that it has already been said on the Senate's floor that in the implementing decree, which will follow from the workshop of the Ministry of Justice, this mandatory advance will be made after six or nine years in the amount of CZK 300 to 500, which is appropriate. This is important information for large systemic creditors, so that it makes any sense to consider continuing debt recovery, for example, for those really large systemic creditors, where the principal is relatively often small. That's some backup. There's one other thing that's important. If nothing is recovered even after 12 years, execution will be stopped, and now important measures: the costs of stopping execution, in vain execution, will not be possible again in execution proceedings. That means we're not gonna make a rule where a new execution or execution procedure could be created to stop one execution. This is very important and I thank the senators for including this rule in the amendments. We have also applied this whole system - or senators - to the past. I think this is very important, because remember, we have repeatedly had debates here about the need to address not only the future, but also the past that we are dragging at our feet as an imaginary ball. And for this, not only does our folklore's gracious summer, stopping bagatile executions, but it also serves to stop those futile executions that have been conducted in the long run as ineffective. We have had a long debate on false retroactivity because, of course, we are also moving here on the level of, say, constitutionally-legal, but also on the basis of debates and discussions with experts and constitutional lawyers, we are convinced that the model or system approved by the Senate fills all the features of constitutionality and can be applied in this case and in execution now conducted. However, there has been a helpful step - this rule has been postponed until 1 January 2023. What it really means: on 1 January 2023, if any execution is carried out in vain on that date, the creditor will be asked by the bailiff to ask if he wants to continue the proceedings, and if so, he will be given an obligation to pay the advance, which has already been mentioned. In case they don't pay for it, after 1 January 2023, this enforcement procedure will be terminated according to the rules that I have already mentioned here. In fact, this is where the longer time space was created for a year and a half in fact so that creditors can go through all their proceedings carefully and consider whether it is worth putting down this advance and continuing the proceedings or not. So here, too, we were looking for a balance. I am convinced that, by the date of January 1, 2023, this has indeed succeeded. [[14.50 hours]] So these are the key changes that have gone through or with which the motion for an amendment to the Code of Enforcement of Civil Procedure returns to us from the Senate's soil. I would like to ask on behalf of myself, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club, and the SPOL coalition for the support of this Senate version. I am convinced that if we add to this all the things that we have already approved here in the third reading, whether it is the aforementioned "merciful summer" or the possibility of 1 January 2022 - then the three-month or six-month period will run there - the possibility of paying the debt to the koruna in principal towards the state, or to organizations with a state share, then it will be the benefit of the state, because the State can afford to forgive the debtor - one-timely, and only one-timely the next year - all accessories, that is interest, periodic penalty payments and so on. There will be a mandatory payment to the bailiff for CZK 750 to stop the execution, to end it. That is what I think is also a helpful step towards dealing with the past. I would like to remind you once again of the stopping of futile bailouts up to CZK 1,500, where the partial payment to the creditor will be again through a tax discount. I have already talked about humanizing the humanization of mobile executions. However, it is also a question of adjusting the remuneration of the periodic penalty payments for social and health insurance. It has already been passed in the House version, and although it only affects enforcement marginally, it is a very important instrument where the rules must apply to everyone equally regardless of whether they are social, health - the state of fact - or health insurance, or whether they are creditors - a physical or other legal person. I am convinced that all of this means that if we manage to support and approve the Senate version here, today we will take an important step towards the biggest change in executions in the Czech Republic. It is not true what has sometimes appeared that it is a cosmetic change, but it is indeed a fundamental modification which, I believe, and this is very important, are a balanced solution between a responsible debtor, a serious creditor, those who are supposed to administer it, that is, the executive authorities, the state, and I believe it will benefit both in the direction of the past and in the future. Yes, it is true that a system solution in the form of local jurisdiction of the executors has not been adopted. You know that there have been long debates here in the House of Deputies, I have personally come up with two compromise proposals for so-called consumer territory. But I respect the fact that there was no political will here in the House, in this House, to address the local jurisdiction of executors as an instrument that would, of course, manifest itself in the future, not in the present, but in the future. But I still think it's an important tool, and it's likely that our successors will come back to it someday. However, the fact that the local jurisdiction of executors has not been approved does not mean that we would end up with cosmetic changes, I am quite convinced of that. I would like to conclude by thanking all those involved in the preparation of this law. You know, we've actually devoted two years here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, Minister, for your cooperation with the non-profit organizations Charity of the Czech Republic and Man in Need, Institute for Prevention of Debtion and so on. I could go on. The debates, the discussions, the consultations were very intense, but they were intense with the creditors, the creditors of system, institutional, and the Executive Chamber. So thank you for your cooperation, and I believe that this bill, or this amendment, will be included in the significant actions of this House throughout the parliamentary term, alongside the amendment to the insolvency law. Thank you for supporting the Senate version and I believe we have taken this step towards a sensible debt recovery environment in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u9	Mr. Patrik Nacher will now appear with the opinion of the SPD member Jan Hrnčíř and will be prepared by Mr. Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say that the SPD has been helping people in debt traps for a long time. In this regard, we have put forward a number of proposals, such as the ceiling of interest on loans or the nationalisation of executors, but we also advocate the principle of one bailiff - one debtor - that is, the so-called principle of territoriality. With the fact that, as experience from Slovakia has already shown, the principle that the executor could not be chosen by the creditor, but would be assigned by an independent execution court within the region where the debtor is resident would be significantly reduced by the costs of enforcement, that is to say, it would reduce the costs to both those liable debtors and, of course, creditors. Therefore, we are very sorry that the Senate has succumbed to the pressure of the large executive authorities and has not put any form of territoriality into this proposal. As has already been said here, also consumer territoriality - that is, if even non-business persons were virtually awarded those executions by the court, the creditor could, of course, choose it himself for business entities - we are sorry that even this form of consumer territory was not included in the proposal. However, we welcome the proposals or changes that the Senate has incorporated into the amendment to the Enforcement Order, of course, especially enforcement or, respectively, inextricable executions, which are actually being enforced for several years. The version that was approved by the House could not stop these executions until sometime in 2028, which means another seven years. We are pleased that the Senate is proposing this on January 1, 2023, which we consider far more beneficial that people will not be in those debt traps for another seven years, and it is possible to speed up this process, plus the other proposals that are there. That means we, as the SPD club, will support the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u11	Now on the point of fact, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have to stand up for the upper chamber here, because the Senate certainly hasn't succumbed to the pressure of any major executive agencies. I will repeat what I have already said, the senators have been put before a simple thing - the Senate would certainly approve of territoriality, but at that moment we would have thrown all the positive things that I have mentioned here, because we all knew well - and you know it, my colleague, through the Vice-President, and you - that it would not have passed here in the Chamber of Deputies. Just political will, especially the government coalition, wasn't there for it. So we were standing before, if we're going to throw it all in the trash and it's not going to be anything at all, or if, in this case, the Senate's territoriality, even though it would simply and immediately approve, is going to be very measured, and that's how he progressed, so he doesn't approve the territoriality. But we're not gonna throw in the trash, all the positive changes and measures we've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u13	Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear and Mr Lukáš Kolářík will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u14	Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I will also allow myself to say a few words, because we are going to end the two-year or two-and-a-half-year work here today over the executions and everything related to it, just above the amendment of the execution order and the OSŘ. I was gonna say it, and he actually said it to Marek Výborný in front of me. I wanted to respond to a colleague of the Hrnčíř, who I don't see anymore. On the contrary, I am glad that the Senate did not place any territoriality there in any form. I don't know if anyone attended the round table behind the SPD - we discussed it there and I'm glad there was such a communication bridge between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, because that's where we made it clear that the Senate would return here in any form. If there was territoriality, it would be very likely that the House would not approve, and then all the other positive changes would fall into the trash and be completely unnecessary. That's what we said there, the club positions, so it would really be useless on the part of the Senate. [[15.00 hours]] I made a few comments for myself. He's already said quite a lot to Marek Výborný and Madam Secretary, as if they were looking into my paper, so I'm gonna take it from a different angle. One. Personally, and I think that most clubs, too, will support the Senate version that came to us because it improves the version of the Houses in many ways. That's what I think is note number one. Note two. It is necessary to repeat again, already in the debate, not until the vote, like last time, for me, and I think for us, I can say that these are the biggest changes in executions in the last 20 years. The biggest changes in the last 20 years! This means that it is not true, if there is any conclusion that just because there is no territoriality, it is a change of small or cosmetic. There's no way that's true. And if you look at the content, and I don't want to drag it in here, we could have a two-hour debate here, so you'll find that there are really the biggest changes we've ever made in the area of execution, among other things, stopping futile executions, we're talking about hundreds of thousands of cases. Then it's 6 - 3 - 3, which is actually stopping the useless executions of the others, even as in a more stringent regime. This is the so-called graceful summer, which means the possibility of paying back only the principal in the execution of a public creditor, and the state, the community and the public sector should set an example. It's the humanization of mobillary executions, which sometimes drastically fell on people who were clear in advance that by embedding the executor wouldn't get much, but it was psychological pressure. And last but not least, it's a change in the order of repayment, where the first principal is repaid, and man is not in the endless circle. It seems to me that there are changes that are really very, very forceful. At this point, let me remind you that, in addition, there have been changes in other laws that we have already passed. It is, for example, an institute of a protected account that we have approved, such as the abolition of child executions. And nota bene are also things that have nothing to do with the law at all, but with the order of the Ministry of Justice, and that is a repeated increase in an unforgivable amount. This is all a context, this is how we have to evaluate it, and the context says that the changes are really the biggest in the last 20 years, in other words, the biggest since the creation of private executors. I dare say for myself - and a colleague of mine, Kolářík, who will probably judge this from another point of view - that what the Senate has sent, and I support it, is simply on the verge of what can be approved in relation to serious creditors. Everything else would mean punishing serious creditors for the unserious ones we can't handle in any other way. I've already said it here, and I'm going to repeat it again, because I think it's important that we stand on the side of serious creditors and responsible debtors, I underline, responsible debtors, not all debtors, who also - some of them - like to move, are happy and voluntarily in that grey zone, and we will never get them out of it. It also needs to be realized that we cannot permanently soften executions, because there must be some difference between executions and debt relief. Just who has more than five executions in principle is mature for debt relief. There's basically no way he's going through those five, six, ten and so on. As far as the changes are concerned, I'm only going to take them very quickly, because they're exactly described by Marek the Výborný. The assignment of principal was a mistake, and it's a good thing it's going back. On the other hand, the modification of the humanization of the mobile executions, which was our amendment, is also correct, because it is, on the other hand, tinyly checkable, so that when someone has a valuable thing that exceeds the limit of 36 monthly instalments, it was confiscated from him so that he would not be protected beyond the sound common sense. It's also good that the payment at the beginning has gone missing, the deposit. At the same time, the payment will be mandatory after six years, which is 6 - 3 - 3. I also acknowledge that the Minister in the Senate repeatedly said that the amount of the advance would be CZK 500, which is a good thing, because there were concerns that if the advance was higher, it would make recovery in the Czech Republic impossible by serious or smaller creditors. So-called false retroactivity: I feel it is actually copying the amendment, the stopping of negative executions, which also goes indirectly back. It's been delayed since January 1st. Let's see how the creditors deal with it. Maybe it's a little bit on the edge, but here I'd like to underline what we went with, that we need to sort out the stuff from the past, and that's the 4.5 million executions. We have to deal with them in some way, because coming back after the covid is a great assumption that the execution will grow again. For the past three years, the number of new executions is lower than the number of completed ones, which is the state we would like, but it will not be forever. In other words, I will recap: I support the Senate version. I thank the Senate for the exemplary cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies in this case. I also thank all my colleagues that we were able to exchange views and the Senate did not send us something that he knew in advance that he would not have a chance and that he would not have taken advantage of the opportunity to put some added value there, as I said in the Senate, in order to improve the standard. Once again, these are the biggest changes in executions over the last 20 years, and I think that in the next parliamentary term we should take a break for at least a year, maybe two should take a break and let it go, because there have been a number of changes to live in the field and in practice. One more thing is in the air that I would repeat here, and that is to negotiate an exception for lower VAT for bailouts and insolvency administrators. We're gonna make this debt recovery issue cheaper again. I thank you for your attention and I am glad that 7. 7. end two-and-a-half years' work on executions. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u15	Now a point of fact, Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Lukáš Kolářík is prepared or still prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u16	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to perform, but there is a constant repetition of territoriality here. What was the basis for the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure? It's just territoriality. That was the word that we were cursing as Members that we wanted to solve the problem of multiple executions for various executioners and multiple costs. When discussing the third reading, we pointed it out and KSČM made it clear that it wanted to introduce territoriality. We were assured that there may have been some mistake, some noise in this hall, that the majority wanted it to, but somehow it didn't work out in the vast number of amendments, and we were assured as communists that it would be fixed in the Senate, which would take this into account. I'm hearing today that the senators were convinced they wouldn't do it because it would go back to the House and it wouldn't happen here. So let's all say here which political parties in this House do not want to introduce the territoriality of executors. Let's talk about what political parties want to go to the executor's mob! And confess, colleagues, colleagues, from which political parties you are here, that this, the mantra, suddenly you repeat and seek an alibi. [[15.10 hours]] I am clearly saying here behind the KSČM that we were, we are and will be for the territoriality of executors to end the mafia's way of recovering debts, multiple debts of various executors and traveling people for the destruction of their executions. Admit it. Let's step by step the individual representatives of the political parties and say - no, we don't want territoriality, we want to maintain the current state. Admit it, at least be so honest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u17	I also thank you for the time being and Mr Petrik Nacher will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u18	Thank you, I would respond to my colleague Leo Luzar. I don't really understand his challenge, because we've all shown it by voting. Here were three proposals on territoriality - the basic one, which works, I guess, only in Hungary and Slovakia, then consumer one, I even came up with a bagatile one, for which I got exclaimed completely from everyone - and we voted to show who had an opinion about the territoriality. So maybe I don't support her, I'll just say it here on the microphone, because it's not true at all what Mr. Luzar here said about the automatically being a big executor being a mobster and not a small one. I'm gonna send him the e-mails and complaints about the bailiffs, some of them have criminal charges, and that's, like, the smaller bailiffs. That means, it's not a direct intention of a great executor - a mobster, a small - honest one. We've been through this, and I don't think this flat-rate thing is appropriate. Just like how many debtors... Have you checked, Mr. Colleague, how many debtors actually go to those bailiffs? How many debtors live in a place of permanent residence if territoriality works? Did you find out how and in which countries territoriality works as proposed here, the classic territoriality? Yes, there is territoriality in some countries, and it is only necessary for public creditors or it is so-called regional. But what has been proposed here, what you support only works in Slovakia and Hungary. So first we need to figure out some data and then we need to perform here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u19	Mr Leo Luzar will now respond to the factual remark. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u20	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to a colleague of the previous speaker. The difference between a small bailiff, a big bailiff. Ladies and gentlemen, in the words of the classic: Hang them all, the pán bůh will take over. I consider the executors to be - and three dots. It's just that. Over time, any honesty, any respect for people, has vanished from this profession, and that is true. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm glad he found the courage of the proponent and enforcer of the execution solution and admitted that the ANO 2011 movement doesn't want territoriality, and as the biggest club here he could really block it if the Senate put the territoriality there - it wouldn't have gone through. That is why, my dear citizens, we do not have territoriality in this law, that they have invented a face, three proposals, and those voices have spread out so that neither of them can pass. That's a classic political trick that's sometimes played here, I don't blame you. But honest with you, I appreciate Patrik coming to the mic and saying he doesn't want territoriality. Thank you for that, that's what I asked you to do, because what was happening here, throwing the blame on the senators, that they actually would - and for the deals and so on. No, it's just that the strongest political club in this House didn't want to introduce territoriality. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u21	Mr Marian Jurečka will now make a point of fact and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared for a point of fact. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u22	Thank you. When I hear my colleague Luzar here, how he's been spinning, of course, the fact that the ANO Group hasn't wanted this for over 7.5 years, that's a thing that's been known to happen in the long run. But if, my colleague, three years ago on your central committee, or as you call it today, you said that one of the key conditions for government tolerance would, for example, be the introduction of territoriality, it would probably be here by now. Why was it not one of the main priorities for which the Communists would fight in this House if they wanted to tolerate this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u23	He's getting off now... So now I've got more of these actual notes coming up, so I'm gonna recap. So, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. So Patrik Nacher, please, you have the floor, your two minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u24	Thank you. I guess Leo Luzar picked me today to hit me because he made an extraordinary revelation here that I had the guts to say it. When you look at the tape screen, I say it consistently from the beginning, the view is constant, it's the same. And as I say, the introduction of territoriality is not a solution to the past, it will not lead to that. It won't lead to it, and as I say, it only works in two countries in the world. But I've already signed up, because I think we'll deal with my colleague Luzar somewhere else, because that wouldn't work out, and there are other laws. I was asked by Helena Válková, who, for health reasons, had to stay in Germany to read on the microphone that she, as an agent, supports the Government Committee's resolution on this press and supports the Senate version. I promised her, so that's how I read it here. So the Senate version has the support of Helena Válková as the Government Human Rights Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u25	Mr Jan Čižinský will now make a point of fact and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u26	But no one here claimed that the introduction of territoriality would solve anything from the past. The argument why to introduce territoriality is, of course, in the future, and the reason for this, among other things, is that there cannot be a corrupt relationship, for example, between an undertaking that generates many taxpayers and an executor, as it has clearly emerged from Mr Faltýnek's diary. This is where I saw my colleague Nacher's gesture, but that's how it is. And that's what territoriality would solve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u27	Mr Leo Luzar will now make his final point, so Mr Lukáš Kolářík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u28	Thank you, just a factual response to my colleague, Jurečka, by your means, I dare you. Mr colleague, if we knew in advance that the proclamations of all political parties about territoriality were merely lies and electoral mystification, we would have put it in our priorities to negotiate with the ANO movement and we would have pushed for it. Nor did we dream that all the political parties who had this in their electoral agenda and wanted to promote the territoriality of executions, ultimately disappoint citizens in the basic vote and withdraw from it. That was the only reason we didn't have it. We really believed that you were all serious, and eventually we stayed alone, the KSČM here was the only one who raised his hand for territoriality hard, added others, but we just stayed alone and in a strong minority. But I wasn't picked up by what happened at third reading, which I understood as a political struggle. I was raised by the alibi when it came back from the Senate when it started to say that senators like one man and a woman wanted to return it, but they don't want to put it there because of the House. So either you weren't telling the truth at that third reading, or you're not telling the truth right now. That's the fundamental contradiction of the words and actions that are being heard here today, and that's all it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u29	Now, Mr Marek's factual point Výborný, so far the only factual point at the moment. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. By your way to Mr Luzar, a brief comment. I have a feeling you haven't been here for three years, or read, or heard anyone. Here the statements of the YES movement, not just of fellow Nacher, were very clear. It was clear before the vote, before the third reading, it was clear afterwards. Yes, it is necessary to say this here, and Patrik Nacher has made it very clear here, the YES movement was not for the introduction of local jurisdiction, but what you're saying is that suddenly somebody didn't follow something out of the blue, that's just not true. That's how it was, and I'm very grateful to the Senate for the way he behaved, because that's how we're going to save the number of positive changes we've made here. And I did not notice that Members of the KSČM would come up with any fundamental proposals. And there's one more thing about territoriality. When you were talking about some kind of dilution, then look out, watch out! As far as consumer territoriality is concerned, it was not any dilution, but my or our folk effort to bring about some reasonable compromise, which would take into account, for example, the rights of even involuntary creditors who would be able to choose executors and executors, because it is often a need for housing cooperatives that do not choose to suddenly become creditors. We have come up with this compromise proposal and I could continue to discuss it. Even this proposal did not receive majority support here in the House, so to say that suddenly at the end of the process we found that the ANO movement does not want territoriality, it really does not correspond to reality at all. And then there was someone deaf and blind from the start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u31	Mr Leo Luzar will now respond to the factual remark. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u32	Thank you. In fact, through you, to your foreman. The YES movement here has more than a third of the MPs, 78, if I'm not mistaken. Yes, it declared the YES movement, and I thanked openly that it did not promote and reject the territoriality. But who else? We communists say, "We want it." I see pirates, they say, yes, we're in. I can hear the deputy here, too. [[unintelligible]] Then why isn't it there? 'Cause the votes were 78. We're gonna hit 100! What's the problem? What political parties outside the ANO movement do not yet want territoriality? Admit it, say it hard and let's not alibi here, that the senators did something wrong, or that they listened and they wanted it. We've had most of it here. And that's the problem. I'm going back to the fundamentals of the matter. Territoriality failed in the third reading because there were more proposals - political dilution is called this. It was done, but right here, people took off to the microphone and said, "No, no, no, the senát will fix it." I'm hearing today that the Senate was convinced not to do it, because it might not go through here. But if only the ANO movement didn't want this, we could have outvoted it beautifully. What's the problem? And here I am going back to the question that was raised here. Isn't it those powerful executive lobbies that start to go around or start to go around and push their interests? And here, unfortunately, I have to answer: maybe that's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u33	Mr Lukáš Kolářík will now appear and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u34	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to enter into the discussion that has just taken place here, but I would like to start by pointing out that we, as pirát of local jurisdiction, want the territoriality, that is. I do not think that it would be quite so that we would join the Communists, because I have already submitted a rather comprehensive proposal in July 2018 that would introduce local jurisdiction into the Czech rule of law. And then there wasn't one more important thing that local jurisdiction was also found in this government's programming statement, which means that they probably all assumed that the government would be dedicated to it. Several times it has been said that these are the biggest changes in the last 20 years. I can agree with that, that's right, it's the biggest changes in the last 20 years, but if we're comparing it to the very minor changes that have been in the last 20 years, then really from the global point of view, from the big scale, they're small and cosmetic, even if they're the biggest changes in the last 20 years. I can very much agree with that. I am terribly sorry that Parliament, and I mean the Senate, has completely resigned from principle one equals one, one debtor equals one executor. If I remember correctly about two years ago, it was exactly the mantra that everyone enchanted, that it was the solution to the execution problem in our country, that one debtor should have only one executor so that there would be no multi-track enforcement, and that unfortunately did not happen. That means we're still going to have a debt recovery system in which more executors can kneel on one debtor, make the entire recovery process more expensive, not allow him to pay off his debts, and ultimately throw the debtor out of the system, on which the entire company is lost. At the same time, the market for executions has not been abolished, and I also see this as a major problem. Of course, when you remove the market, trade in poverty will also be abolished. And I saw local jurisdiction as an intermediate step, some shift between developed countries where the private sector does not enforce, but a state, such as in Germany, where it works very well. It would be an interesting intermediate step - we will shut down the market and then we will focus on how to come up with this in order to fit in with ten European countries with the largest GDP that do not use private bailouts to recover their claims. Let me get this straight. It was a tragedy when it came from the House. We voted in favour of the law at third reading just because we hoped the Senate would somehow improve it. That's what happened. The senát really improved it. I must say that improving the stopping of executions, preferential repayment of principal, but also partial digitization of the whole process is certainly a step forward, but it is still not a jolly thing. We as pirát will support the Senate proposal and support it precisely because there has been some improvement that we have hoped for, but I must say and say, and I say this repeatedly, that is simply not a jolly thing to do. They're the biggest changes in the last 20 years, but they're not big. There's no system change that we had the chance to introduce as the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u35	Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak, and this is the last application for discussion so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Dear Government, I would also like to comment on the changes in the executions that we are finally to approve today. First of all, I would like to say that I am glad that after long years, and it is at least the second term of office of this House, when it seeks to find new rules in executions, that it is just us together when we approve these new rules. We, as a social democratic club, have advocated three basic principles on both the Sub-Committee on Debtion and Enforcement and on the Constitutional and Legal Committee and here on plenary. They were all based on our program, which we have for executions and for debt relief, called Second Chance. And that's what our philosophy is based on. We want everyone who gets in trouble just in view of the lack of rules of the game, the fair rules of the game over the past years, or, say, a decade, maybe two decades, to lead to a huge number of people getting caught in debt traps, actually without a chance of these debts, often unfairly increased by loanor accessories, to repay these debts. And, of course, their families and their children fell into this debt spiral. This has also affected a number of regions. We all know that the bigger problems with executions are in the Moravian-Silesian region, in the Ústí Region, in the Karlovy Vary Region, and that this spiral of debt means, of course, also, to steal the future of these regions and to develop these regions. That means new rules and a second chance for all of us, I'd say it was almost too late and not in five minutes twelve, but an hour twelve. Second chance - our program also says a simple thing, "yes" to an honest repayment and "no" to a debt of slavery. We believe that everything in this sentence is just how those sections, which maybe somebody doesn't understand, should actually work. After the House has completed its work, which was marked by three-year debates, and here I thank the Minister of Justice and her team of legislators for an infinite degree of patience and legal support, just as I want to thank the helping organizations such as Man in Need, Charity, Association obliged, Association civil council, platform for debt relief and execution, in short, all of these have joined forces to support us in finding the new enforcement rules. [[15.30 hours]] After we finished this long-term work here, I performed here with a rather fiery speech, because I confess that the outcome of the House did not please me at all. At the time, it can be said that in the end, everyone spoke similarly critically, and I thank the representatives of the Senate and the Senate for the whole, of course, and our friendly constitutional law committee for the work they did there. If I was talking about the rules that are important to our club, they're simple. Stopping resultsless executions - here it must be added that the Senate has taken a step forward so that the stopping of resultsless executions is really as broad as possible and that the obstacles that we have seen in the House version will fall away. We therefore support adjustments approved by the Senate, and we are also in the future for any improvement, let's say, in executions that do not lead anywhere. The creditor does not see a crown, the debtor falls into another and another debt and we do not pursue enforcement, but only execution for execution. So "yes" to the endless cessation of executions. The second thing that, of course, raised us from the chair, and we are glad that the Senate has fixed it, is our long-term program goal, which we have been supporting all along, and that is a preferential repayment of principal. Even then, the senát fixed this and set these rules straight. This too, of course, has our support. As far as the modifications to the mobular executions are concerned, I admit I wouldn't be so afraid that people in debt traps in the Ústí Region have a gold waterjet watch in their closet, so we'll make sure that they don't accidentally escape our mobile execution and get out of it as we approved. I really don't think so. However, I believe that the overall changes to the mobillary executions lead to greater humanization, if you can say so, and I believe that the helping organisations that I have appointed, but we, too, will be paying attention to this in the coming months and years, and, of course, the present Minister of Justice from the point of view, that the rules that we have adopted for some purpose and purpose are also being implemented in practice. The last thing I have to say, of course, is what I'm not happy about, and our social democratic club isn't happy about it. You know that, as members of social democracy, together with others, we supported the parliamentary proposal to introduce the first step of nationalisation of executors, and thus the establishment of local jurisdiction of executors, but we also announced, after the final vote, that if local jurisdiction comes back from the Senate, we will support it, and we will support it unanimously. However, at the debates that we participated in in the Senate, we understood that not everyone here has this opinion, not everyone wants to introduce local jurisdiction. I'm sorry, because our government coalition had this in its government program. The Minister was asked to do so, and she did so by proposing rules of management concentration, which, I dare say, when I look back on it - we should have supported them because we did not only miss the local jurisdiction of executors as a first step towards nationalizing executors, but we also missed the rules of concentration, and I am very sorry, it is a missed opportunity. However, I believe that if the new rules on which we have been able to agree can be applied fairly in practice so that it is true that the debtor and the creditor are in an equal position and that the bailout must function as an extended hand of the court, and not as a businessman or as an entrepreneur, so if we all manage to control the new rules in practice and work, I believe that it will improve the execution in the Czech Republic, that it will be debt collection for creditors, that it will not be execution for execution, that it will not be business, that it will not be business. I will believe it, and I will believe it, too, colleagues, if it is not so that in the coming months and years we will all come together to tighten up these rules and we will not give anyone the chance that the new enforcement rules will not be fulfilled as we imagined it or as we set it out. Thank you for your attention and based on information from the President of the Social Democracy Club and the prior discussion on the Sub-Committee on Debtion, when we tried to tune in with other colleagues and colleagues, the House has agreed that this House should vote on the new rules for execution, and I see that our Social Democratic Club is ready to support the Senate version, because it is better to meet our long-term promoted and approved program, the Second Chance, which we call a simple rule: Everyone deserves a second chance if he gets into difficulties and is in debt trap. And a simple thing: "yes" to an honest repayment of debts and "no" to an indebted slave! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u37	The chairman of STAN Jan Farský will now perform and Mr. Jiří Bláha will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, just a brief word from the Mayors' Club and independent of this press. We are pleased that today it is for discussion that it is today in the version that came from the Senate, because, contrary to the original version that was leaving the House, it has moved from our point of view in the right direction, and every direction that leads to the objective of execution being the repayment of debt, and not the production of debt slaves, is simply right, and what this amendment carries is exactly this direction. That's why we'll support him. And it won't give me a chance to thank my colleague Marek Výborný from this point of view, thanks to whom and his immeasurable work both in the House in subcommittees and in the Senate today, from my point of view, we have a quality standard for which we can vote and which will really be a shift. By moving forward, not that the debtors should not pay off their debts from now on, but that the debtors will pay back their debts, but that they will not fall into debt slavery. Thanks to Marek Excellent, because from my point of view, he was the one who pushed it so hard. Today we will approve, hopefully approve, this bill and move the situation forward. We still have one left to hang, and we won't be able to make it until the election, but whoever is here in the House needs to be remembered that the law that hangs here is an insolvency law, its amendment, which regulates personal bankruptcy and the possibility of debt. This is a necessary amendment, because it is the complete key to making sure that people do not end up in endless debt slavery, and so far our regulations have often led to this. I believe that, after the elections, the resistance that was held by some parties in the House will be reduced, reduced, and this fundamental law for the future of the Czech Republic will pass this law, the insolvency law, even after the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u39	Mr. Jiří Bláha will now appear. It's the last one entered into the discussion at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u40	Dear colleagues, it's nice how you're all congratulating yourselves on how well we've come up with this. I've heard a saying here that everyone deserves a chance, and I'd like to go back to that, yes, every honest person deserves a chance to pay off their debts on decent terms. On the other hand, anyone who borrows deserves a chance to get their money back. I mean, the way we approach executions and insolvencys, we're totally breaking up with what I just said. We give priority and opportunity to those who speculate, on the part of those who enforce, and on the other hand, we give opportunity to those who speculate on the part of debtors. When I went to the Chamber of Deputies, I went mainly to try to do something about the executions. What I'm going to say here is mostly one can say my point, I don't get behind the club YES or YES, and I'm very sorry that we missed the chance we had here to systematically change the whole concept of executions, but also insolvencys, so that those who enforce can't really abuse it - so that those who feed on it can't abuse it - and on the other hand, those who owe it can't abuse it either. [[15.40 hours]] One of the things that bothered me the most when I came here was the enormous burden of companies, and unfortunately, it hasn't changed or changed. What companies are experiencing is not easy. We have one million debtors. If you take how many people are employed, those who are less financially competent, that's at least one third of the employees. So each company has several people in its portfolio who are in executions or insolvencys. These people are not only a bureaucratic burden on companies, because what the company often undergoes in negotiations with one, two, three, four, but in some sphere maybe even the 25th bailiff, because someone has 25 executions, and someone else manages it every time, so that's a great statement to get information for the employee to even know how he is, because he often doesn't have a chance to find out. So the company often plays the role of whoever's working with it. Maybe I just met one of my executives two days ago, and he said to me, "Well, I finally managed to help this one employee by holding his money, agreeing how he's going to give it to him, so he can live, so he can go through the execution process. And that's not the last one. These employees often come to their jobs with just going to meet the necessity, which means they need to be employed in order for social and health to go, they often don't care how much they earn because they still don't stand a chance, even if they work 365 days a year 24 hours a day, to reach out for a decent living. So at this point, the honest ones who really want to pay off the loan and work to tear the body apart, in the case of a priority execution even a year ago at 25,000 gross, they're left with 10 837. You think the family's gonna be able to feed it? I can't. And those people, even if they worked from morning to night, like I said, 365 days a year, they didn't get more. And that's why we can't get out of execution. We're not gonna give these people a chance to make normal money by legal means, and that's why we're throwing them into the gray economy. So if we have a million people in executions here, you can be sure that at least 800,000 of them work black to secure their families to earn their rent to earn their children's, their families' needs. It is so that as part of tax evasion and, of course, taking advantage of social benefits is running away from us 100 billion a year, we are throwing them into the trash just because we do not want to deal with changing systemically how execution is handled. Thanks to this, we have a black job here, which is so pierced in the last detail in our Republic that many companies already officially pay these employees, because thanks to the tax burden that today is on the job - it is one of the most expensive items - these companies use the fact that I will give the employees twenty, ten to him also officially, but another way, and I will tax it to twenty percent rather than fifty, which is worth the employee when I give it to him as a wage. So here at the beginning, I was saying that everyone deserves a chance, but the way we approach executions, we're losing that chance, because unfortunately, we're only dealing with that, yes, here we're going to increase the unforgivable amount, yes, here we're going to allow someone to be unable to enforce the execution, yes, here we're going to change that a larger percentage of the debt can't be required. It's all positive, but unfortunately, those people need a whole different kind of money for their lives than what they're left with after we confiscate what we want to confiscate. So believe that most end up having one, two, three, four jobs, but especially one, when not a crown ends in the state register. So that's it for me. I hope you will take some of my words until the next few years when you will be in the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore prepared the whole amendment of this law, but because I saw that neither my side, but others were not interested in this solution, so I kept it. I have it all prepared, from a law firm with all the consequences processed, so if you are interested in the future, there is the possibility of introducing a completely different system that will really work so that we can motivate those who fall into debt so that they don't go on indebting themselves so that they want to pay back so that they want to make money and, of course, that they can't be abused. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u41	Mr Jiří Bláha's speech raised an interest in factual remarks, so Mr Marek Výborný and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u42	Thanks for the word. I just wanted to please Mr Bláh, by your means. You were here at the beginning of your speech, Mr. Colleague, talking about the problem of communication between employer and executors. There is already a part of the proposal that we have approved here in the House, and it is still in the proposal, that is the part that is dealing with this problem. We knew about it, there is an electronicisation of this procedure set up, it should significantly simplify the flow of information between the employer and the executive office, only for some reason purely technical there required everyone to postpone efficiency, I guess up to two years, because it is not easy to reconfigure the entire systems, create the data sentences and the like, so it will take some time, but this is solved in the amendment, not that it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u43	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and then Mr Jiří Bláha, will come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to thank my colleague Bláh because he is absolutely right that the fact that people in executions or insolvencys often do not pay to work legally is a huge problem. It costs tens of billions of crowns a year for the Treasury, and I hope that we can get to the amendment to the insolvency law at least in the next parliamentary term so that we can really break this thing, because we are actually losing tens of billions of crowns here together, because hundreds of thousands of people are completely useless outside the legal labour market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u45	Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear and Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u46	We have enforced new rules for debt relief, better debt relief for seniors, better debt relief for children and young people, a ban on child debts, protected accounts to protect wages, wages for workers, but also pensions for pensioners, and now we are talking about fundamental changes in the rules for execution. What my previous speaker here overshot is a vision to completely alter the way of accessing debt repayment. Yes, I would like it too, it would be easy to say for example: one third of a person's wage remains, at least so much, the rest is worked out, or maybe two thirds remain, one third is worked out, it does so much, except it has one catch. Such a change simply means basically a fundamental change in the rules of the entire Civil Code, essentially override it. [[15.50 hours]] And all lawyers know that neither the SEC nor the Enforcement Order are exactly the most understandable legal works, and we would need them all over again, better and more simply, even so that they sit on the new labour market, on the new communication of employers, executors, courts, but this is not a matter that can be resolved in two years. I'm sure I support these changes, but I think it would also be a good idea to really say what this is all about, how we can get to it, and to be honest, it can't be done in a year or two. I'm sure that's something we could work on in the next term, and I hope my previous speaker will join us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u47	There. Mr. Jiří Bláha, Mr. I'll read an apology in the meantime. Mr Václav Votava apologizes today, Wednesday 7. Seven, at 15 o'clock for family reasons. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u48	Dear colleagues, I will simply respond to the things that have been said here. Certainly electronization or digitalization, or whatever we call it, is a great thing, but remember, first, the officials and everyone in the government must want to do it. So far, my experience over the next four years is that everyone is quick to resist it, and believe me, if we've put two years on hold now, then in those two years, it's just that it's not going to work out, but it's going to have to be postponed, and this is going to be the way we go, because, of course, for a number of officials, it's just unimaginable that something should run online. As for the pirát, thank you. If you happen to win, I'll be happy to be approached, because believe me, I've got it all set up, I think I'm really, really good. It may also deserve other changes that are possible. One of the things that has been said here by Kateřina, through Mr President: we have, first and foremost, a stupid code of work, because it does not allow us to do overtime hours, at most until about 25. So anyone who's in executions is clearly sending the code to the gray zone because they won't let him make more money. You want to work harder? You can't, because at that point, the company that employs you would be breaking the rules, and that means you don't have a chance to officially make money on your debt. So there would be a need - one of the changes clear. If it should be one-third of the wage or more, it's not crucial. I think we should say, you have to pay everything, we're giving you some kind of time horizon, and that's how we're gonna make payments. And try and work! [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u49	Now I don't have anyone else registered, so I'm gonna look around the O.R. to see if anyone's interested in getting off. I don't see anybody, so if no one checks in, I'm done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Madam Secretary? Mr. Senator? You're interested, so who do we prefer? Madam Secretary, she's a lady. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u50	Me very briefly, ladies and gentlemen. So once again, I am asking for the approval of this bill, in the Senate version, as we have worked hard to improve with the Senate, and I think that was a reasonable compromise. And thank you again for the round tables and the effort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u51	Mr. Senator will now speak with the final word. Senator Jan Holásek, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u52	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for an interesting general debate. Thank you for the positive perception of the Senate's work on the amendment. I would also like to thank all those who have helped us with this here in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to take this moment to ask that we all think together about the time the Senate has on amendments. It's 30 days now. We've been doing it here for basically 14 days. The total points are 61 and it was really at a very, very fast pace and it would certainly be better done if we had at least 60 of those days, which means two months. Let me also briefly comment on the question of territoriality, local jurisdiction, as discussed here. I would allow myself to do my utmost to oppose the Senate being in any way, and indeed in any way, under the influence of some large executive agencies, and I would say that most senators would also be for local jurisdiction, but after communicating with the representatives of the Chamber of Deputies, after the round table had passed, it was evident that the view was perceived that there was a risk that the whole amendment would not have passed if territoriality had been incorporated. We have read it in the constitutional law committee, many senators have publicly supported it, but the perception of political will in the Chamber of Deputies may have outweighed the majority opinion of the senators. However, the senát is certainly ready to return to this topic in the future. So thank you again for your cooperation, and I would be glad if we could work together similarly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-005-005.u53	I will now engage and proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to House press 545/10, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 545/11.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 169 Members registered, in favour of 162, against 1. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. This concludes the negotiation of this law. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] And I'll open another point. This is about
