ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u1	527. Oral inhalation So there is an additional apology, Mr. Defense Minister Lubomír Metnar apologizes on account of urgent work obligations. The next item is therefore oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members has been drawn, in which they will speak and give oral interviews to Members first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is duly excused, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw the attention of both the intersecting Members and those intersecting the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intervention on the apologized Prime Minister, the intersects on the members of the Government will continue. And I already see Mr Polanský ready, who I hereby give the floor to. It was drawn in the first place to give oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš, Mr Tomáš Vymazal will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, members of the government, dear Prime Minister, since joining the House in 2017, I have been dealing with transport topics and one of those to which I have to return repeatedly is illegal billboards on Czech roads. You, as you know, should have disappeared as early as September 1, 2017, and this only happened at the minimum of them. The remaining owners, in violation of the law and in view of public authorities, make hundreds of millions of crowns a year. Even sadder, their customers often include political parties. That is why I wanted to ask you whether the YES movement will use advertising on illegal billboards in the autumn elections, or whether you intend to take this aspect into account when planning the campaign. I ask because by avoiding advertising on these billboards, we have a chance to increase the level of political struggle in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You shall receive the reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Another winner is Mr Tomáš Vymazal, Mr Jiří Valenta will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you on the question of tests purchased for testing in schools. There has been a systematic failure of several resorts, but as a result it is your responsibility. According to the requirements of the Ministry of Education, non-invasive antigen tests were to be distributed to schools for self-collection, i.e. saliva tests or for the front of the nose, which will be tested twice a week. Let's see what tests bought by the Czech government look like. Although it is written on the box that the Singclean test is intended for testing from the front of the nose or neck, it is clearly written on the inner packaging: nasopharyngeal swab. That's what we see here. [[It shows the cover of the test.]] This means that the test is intended for nasal swab, not for the front of the nose or saliva. Yes, that's the test I have in my hand. [[It shows again.]] According to the information on the packaging, it is in no way a test for self-testing. Not only can nosohltan swab only be performed by a medic, but above all there is a lower concentration of virus in the saliva and in the front of the nose than in the nosohltan, which also explains the very low prevalence seen in schools and which does not correspond to the real situation in the Czech Republic. The instruction video of the Ministry of Education, clearly supplied by the distributor of the test, shows a box with a Czech description: from the sample from the nose and neck, but in a targeted way, I would say, but there is no individual package - here - on which the information is given in complete contradiction, i.e. for nasal swab. [[shows]] That's what they go to school for testing. This. [[It shows again.]] Where is a specific study that demonstrates the suitability of using Singclean tests for self-testing? Is the government blindly trusting the test supplier again? Or does he deliberately deceive the public? Prime Minister, I believe that our common goal is the safety of children in schools. Do you even know what you're doing? Aren't you kind of trying to eat soup with a fork?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u5	Thank you. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Next, Mr. Jiří Valenta, Mr. Pavel Jelínek, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u6	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, do you not consider it a significant threat to our national security that, although theoretically possible, service contracts for the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Police Presidium of the Czech Republic, as well as for the National Security Office, would be so suspicious and non-transparable to firms whose property structure would lead to tax havens and end up in the Virgin Islands, for example? Unfortunately, some investigative revelations already confirm this unacceptable state in our country. However, in order not to speak only in general and in terms of signs, it is specifically the state contracts in the order of tens of millions of crowns to Gopas, a. s., which should be co-owned by the CEO of Czech Television Petr Dvořák, together with the director of PPF, who owns TV Nova, Ladislav Bartoníček, among other things, through the company Globe Invest. A report has recently appeared in the media - and you, as well as the chairmen of the two parliamentary chambers, have been sent to it in writing. It contained information that Gopas, based in tax havens, trains in the Czech Republic in IT security, for example, the National Cyber and Information Security Office, which is responsible, among other things, for protecting classified information in information and communication technologies. The SAOKIB has concluded at least two such contracts with Gopas in recent years in proceedings where the contracting authority addresses only one supplier directly. The amount of one of the contracts was CZK 12 million, the value of the other is untraceable. Prime Minister, I beg the clear and unhindered answer to the question whether what I have now told you, more precisely, has already been mentioned, is really based on the truth, and whether you are okay with this situation. This, not only in my opinion, would be morally and politically deterrent and would lead to a reasonable suspicion of your government's huge security failure. In connection with Gopas, it should be dealt with according to my contract information, for example, with the Ministry of Culture or the Office of the Government. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you in advance for the explanatory answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u7	Thank you. And Mr Jelínek will speak with further intervention, and Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, absent Prime Minister, antigen testing is under way in the industry. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, the decision ordered by this test is illegal, but it is still ongoing. However, the test results are very trivial. From the information available, it is known that companies in the automotive industry have detected an antigen test of 1% of infected employees, for example E.ON reports 0.8% positive. Nevertheless, antigenic testing has been ordered for children to enter schools. The results of this testing again bring very low numbers. Of the 354,000 pupils tested, only 160 positives were produced during the first testing in schools. Today was the second round of testing, which will certainly also bring interesting results. My question is: If the results of this antigen test are so low, is this testing meaningful? [[14.40 hours]] The ratio of the positive people in industry to the tests performed brings the result, which speaks of the price of the circus 120,000 per positive. In education, the number will be much higher due to the results of the testing, not to mention psychological and social reasons. But, Prime Minister, put an end to the pointless testing of children in schools. Provide a meaningful way of maintaining open schools, such as so-called spit PCR tests or other successful methods of finding cluster infections that are already tested in the regions. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, you have said that we need to prepare ourselves for repeated vaccinations against COVID-19 disease. Vaccines are only approved conditionally and no one knows how long they will produce antibodies or what side effects they will have. Recently, a patient vaccinated with a second dose of vaccine with a South African mutation has even been infected. I wonder, then, what you're saying is that we need to prepare ourselves for having to vaccinate repeatedly if we don't even know how the vaccines will work. And what vaccine should it be when the European Commission withdraws from buying vaccines from AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson? And how will you proceed if you are not interested in repeated vaccinations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u11	Thank you, Madame. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Mr Lubomír Volný will give another interview. Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, friends and friends. Welcome to live transmission. We have a minister here in the House, and the rest of the government here is showing us how we're on the hook. And not just us as MPs, but you as citizens, because you're not worth anybody in the time of the covid crisis, nor for them to just come here to answer interpelations that are very often from you, and they're your questions. I'll read a few names here first: profesor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc; docent MUDr. Martin Balík, D; MUDr. Hana Zelená, .. profesor MUDr. Jan Pirk, DrSc; MUDr. Jan Hnízdil; MUDr. Vít Mareček; MUDr. Šimon Reich; MUDr. Soňa Peková, .; MUDr. Eva Bojanovská; MUDr. Jana Cibulková; MUDr. Kamila Součková. Plus another tens of thousands of doctors, nurses, students, educators, entrepreneurs, businessmen and seniors who are signed under the petition of the Health Forum, who in such a wonderful way went through our petition committee and whose video is deleted from all social networks as if it were some kind of weapon of mass destruction. And I would like to call on the Prime Minister to include on the agenda of the Government's negotiations on this petition, which calls for children to return to schools without tests, without conditions, to finally start targeting protection to the risk group, to loosen up measures and a gradual return to the country, while I myself propose that this petition be discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies at the earliest opportunity to change the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u13	Thank you for keeping time. I'm gonna ask the worker to do the disinfection of the counter quickly. Thank you. [[The Free Member is responding from the diaper.]] Mr Volný volunteered that he had not yet been warned today, if I understood correctly. Thus, according to Section 19, I give a warning for the conduct of committing an offence in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for reminding me. Mr Koten, Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President and Mr absent Prime Minister. Allow me to raise a few questions about your vaccination plan and to provide vaccines for vaccination of the Czech population, i.e. those who want it. As you know, many states are moving west of us from vaccination with AstraZeneca, and we need an alternative. The alternatives are therefore offered to us here, because after the President's meeting and addressing the various states east of us, it is possible to secure vaccines both Sputnik and Sinopharm. I've been intersecting here the last time about these two vaccines, and I wanted to ask you how you've progressed in negotiating the use of these vaccines. Furthermore, I would also like to ask whether you expect the vaccination system to be carried out in a similar way, for example in Serbia, where citizens and people can choose what vaccine they will be vaccinated with, and they can choose a term. We even have a lot of vaccination tourism here, so Czech citizens also go to Serbia for vaccinations. So my question is whether this situation is acceptable to you, or whether you really intend to do something about it, and you want to become one of the countries where vaccination works, or whether we still want to be vaccinated on the back of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u15	Thank you, too. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Jakub Janda, will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u16	Dear Prime Minister, there has been an enormous increase in government debt in front of our eyes for months. We also hear for months that this is happening because of the costs that have been incurred in relation to the pandemic of coronavirus. Now, however, the Supreme Audit Office has published an annual report stating that this is actually not quite true. According to this report, almost half of last year's expenditure on the state budget was not linked to the fight against the pandemic. Not that anyone wants to think you're not telling the truth, but the facts are like that. The Independent Office for the Management of State Property and Implementation of the State Budget stated that at least 147 billion of the state budget expenditure went to a different place than those related to pandemics. I ask for an explanation - either government rhetoric or the SAO's findings. They both won't stand up at the same time. That's not all. The SAO also said that the Czech Republic is still one of the least indebted countries of the European Union, but the pace of debt is one of the fastest. Furthermore, the Authority criticised the fact that, although the number of civil servants has increased since 2016, the performance of the state administration itself has not improved significantly. Have you also noticed that the government has failed to act systematically to target public funds for the development of infrastructure, digitization or social area? Prime Minister, if we're to see this as a result of your government's work, it's pretty unhappy, isn't it? How is it that the government, where so many ministers have been replaced under your leadership, has not been able to avoid such serious shortcomings? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u17	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda has the floor, Mr Marian Bojko will give another interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister. Sport, movement, or just physical activity is something that the human body needs, that enhances and keeps us alive. The password "in a healthy body of a healthy spirit" may sound archaic, outdated, but it just does. I understand that the coronavirus crisis requires various restrictions. We can have debates about what is necessary and which are unnecessary, there are a lot of opinions, and I do not want to downplay this situation, but I reject discussions about whether we need sports and mobility activities. The debate is to be conducted differently: under what conditions and with what measures. People don't know what they're paying for, what's announced on Wednesday, so they're three different things by the end of the week. And it really doesn't matter if there's 20, 12 or just two people out there right now. Just make sure you make some clear and predictable rules. [[14.50 hours]] Prime Minister, I know this is a matter of resorcism, that ministers have the key to it. But what kind of Prime Minister are you when, as the government you're leading, he can't give people a clear message? I beg you, Prime Minister, as the chief executive, to put an end to the confusion in the restrictions, set clear rules for sports and let people live. So the question is, when do you give clear rules for sports? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marian Bojko, Mr Petr Bendl, will now present his interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, everyone. Mr. Prime Minister, Denmark stopped vaccination with AstraZeneca this week due to cases of blood clots in some individuals who have advanced vaccination against covid-19. It has thus joined other European countries such as Sweden, Latvia, Luxembourg, Germany, France, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Norway, Iceland, Bulgaria and the Netherlands, but the Minister of the Double Ministry of Hamáček has commissioned ambassadors in Copenhagen to address the Danish authorities for the sake of the interest of the Czech Republic to purchase these vaccines astraZeneca. Seriously? Are we really a banana republic? Anyone who wants to be vaccinated should be given a safe vaccine, not one that is currently rejected by 18 countries of Europe, not to mention that at least 40 cases of blood clots have been documented in some people who have been vaccinated with covid-19, and some people have died. It is reported that it is not yet proven that this was due to vaccination, but we will see how it turns out. But in any case, I would ask you to stop buying this vaccine when almost half of Europe's advanced population is rejecting this vaccine. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u21	Thank you. I'm begging you to dissipate the larceny. There is no way I want to discriminate against anybody, so, of course, even Mr Bojko has just received a warning from me in the sense of Section 19 for the indecent conduct of committing an offence. You sit here in the hall, you don't have a respirator, you don't keep a safe distance. I will ask Mr Bendl, Mr Jan zahradník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, the government Members have refused to support the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies imposing on the Government the publication of contracts, concluded at a time of emergency and relating to measures relating to the purchase of health material. The emergency situation allows you to circumvent the Public Procurement Act. It's an extraordinary tool that the government can use. That is more transparent, I believe, that the government should be and should make public the contracts it has concluded that were not covered by the Public Procurement Act. I want to ask you, because I have noticed that you yourself have said somewhere that you do not want to hide anything and you will not, whether you will publish these contracts concluded in an emergency state and whether you will also publish the continuation of individual purchases of health material, because there are big rumors about it and I think that things would benefit if the whole matter were opened transparently. That is why I want to ask you whether or not you will publish them, and if you refuse to do so, for what reasons. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing. I ask that Mr Jan Zahradník present his intervention, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Prime Minister with an interview on the issue of exceptions to the strict emission limits of the PREF. It is a fact that by the end of 2021, due to strict environmental standards and physical obsolescence, electricity generation will be significantly reduced or stopped for a number of coal power plants and also due to high price of emission allowances, the production of coal heating plants will be reduced, all in a total capacity of 2,600 MW. There's another problem. Due to even more stringent emission requirements than the European Union's legislation requires, so-called large power plants will have to meet the strict emission limits of the BREF on mercury, nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and solid pollutants by August of this year. It is a group of resources with a total installed capacity of 5 142 MW. All these sources must request an exemption to buy time to find new commercially usable technologies that would allow the limit to be met. In the event of its failure, they will have to stop production. The risk of decommissioning is therefore overall related to resources with a capacity of 7 742 MW. My question is: Is it known to you and the government that a critical lack of electricity may occur soon in the Czech Republic if exceptions are not granted? Next question: What is the government's position on granting these exceptions? Third: The new issue for both the Czech Republic and the European Union is the problem of mercury emissions, both in terms of their measurement and elimination. Is the government going to support research in this area? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Věra Kovářová will give the last interview to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u26	Dear Prime Minister, as of Monday, government measures must be taken in accordance with and within the pandemic law. However, the pandemic law does not allow strict measures and restrictions to be imposed without due justification. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Health issues these measures and is insufficiently justified, but they are also being challenged for their irrationality, disproportion and discriminatory nature. An example is the area restrictions in the form of a ban on public presence in closed sports sites, gyms, saunas and the like. Some of the operations were granted an exemption by the Ministry of Health, but they did not justify why. In doing so, the courts, including the Constitutional Court, have already said several times that no legislation in general can prohibit everything and, in the form of an exception, favour certain areas without justification and that justification must be passed in the proportionality test. So these must not just be thoughts, opinions, feelings, or assumptions of the government. However, it seems that the government has once again proceeded to bans without explaining their meaning and importance, and so again the actions from those affected by the measure are directed at it. Therefore, I ask you as Prime Minister, as Prime Minister of this government, who is responsible for taking measures: Does it seem logical and right that the government significantly restricts the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic and does not bother to explain and justify these restrictions to them, even though we, as opposition, the media, and ordinary citizens have been calling attention to this absolutely fundamental deficiency for a year? Does this mean that the government has already resigned from the rule of law and has decided that its regulation is above the law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u27	Thank you, Madame. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. At this point, we have exhausted all applications to the Prime Minister. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. We have 14.58, Minister Arenberger is excused by 15.00, so perhaps he will appear, but I call on Mrs Tereza Hyťhová to present an interview with Minister of Health Petr Arenberger and thus launch a block of government response to the interpelation of Members. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u28	Hello, Mr. Absent Minister of Health, I assumed you'd be here because these are your first interpelations. I'm bohužel so. My interpelation is about testing in schools. In my opinion, and according to many people, parents do not make sense of this testing, burden and divide society. I also support the petition, which has over 13,000 signatures, from the initiative of Returning Children to School. Antigenic tests are not suitable for surface testing of symptomsless individuals and therefore without symptoms. Besides, it's causing the kids trauma, fear of being positive. For example, on the Internet, I read about a child tested by your antigen test at a kindergarten and proved positive. The baby was crying, and she was completely traumatized. A few hours later, this child received a PCR test that was negative. So she returned to kindergarten, but this trauma will continue. So your tests are highly unreliable. They're the worst antigen tests on the market, and a lot of parents didn't send their kids to school or send them. [[15.00 hours]] I want to ask you whether you really meant your statement with rectal tests, and also with nosophagus tests, and whether you're going to change your attitude on this, or, I hope, your statement was completely pointless. So I wonder if you're planning to make a change, either completely cancel all the tests and pointless respirators in the schools, or if you want to replace these tests with something good, or settle for this, when we now know that these tests are poor. Thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u29	Thank you, Madame. During your interpellation, I received an additional apology from the Minister of Health, who moved his absence to 15.45 due to urgent work duties. Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Jan Zahradník, will present another interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, primary care is neglected during the COVID-19 pandemic. Circuit doctors often do phone chores, and even worse, they don't answer the phone. In case of covid, the patient is told to take an antigen test, positive result for PCR is a loss of several days, and then positive is told to take his medication to the temperature, and if he gets short of breath, he calls RZ. Patients then end up in hospitals in very poor condition or after having lost a covideo in medical professionals with neglected health conditions. The work of practitioners certainly is not to ordinate over the phone or not almost at all. The consequences of their approach are then taken away by hospitals. So you were talking about monoclonal antibodies yesterday, but they should be given risky patients in time, which is not even possible in this process. I'm on the news this morning. cz even read that risky patients call the doctor late. But they, Minister, call on time, but the doctors have sort of got used to their mantra: Just don't come here, buy Ibalgin, and if you need anything, call. Will you please deal with this? Do you even have the means to force practices to investigate patients physically and not just on the phone? Minister, today we can see that trying to stop the lockdown epidemic is impossible. So, rather than tightening up the measures, are you considering giving the sick but also doctors clear instructions on how to treat covid so that patients receive medication and avoid complications? Or will you ride in the dorms of your predecessors and confirm us all that the only reason the Minister of Health has been replaced is to get the vaccine Sputnik? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u31	Thank you. Next will be Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u32	Mr President, is my impression that Minister Brabec is excused?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u33	Yes, he's among the excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u34	I didn't notice him among the apologies I read. Therefore, I thank you for this opportunity. I'm pulling the appeal to Minister Brabec. I'll do it in some other interpelatory afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u35	Yes, thank you. In that case, I would ask that Mr Patrik Nacher present his intervention to the Minister of Culture. Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, good afternoon. I've been pushing this interpelation in front of me for some time now, because these interpelations are moving so fast over time, you can't even plan it. I would like to intersect Minister Lubomír Zaorálek with the topic of the amendment of the Act on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, or the part on the making available of television for people with hearing disabilities. There's a 981/2020 press that's updating it and that's supposed to deal with these things. Unfortunately, there is no communication between civil servants of the Ministry of Culture and ASNEP, which is the Association of deaf and hearing organizations and their friends. In some of these moments, it comes down to some mutual misconceptions, so I would like to politely encourage communication between the Ministry and ASNEP in terms of broadcasting, in terms of the proportion of television programmes that are accessible to people with hearing disabilities. I'm involved in this thing myself in some way. It is also about some communication with individual broadcasters, with individual televisions, but I think that the Ministry of Culture and their approach can play a big role in this. So if you don't mind me asking the minister. The question is in particular the answer, but rather set up some communication and some outcome in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u37	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. The Minister of Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u38	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am quite grateful that Mr Nacher is dealing with this issue of making the content of television programmes accessible to deaf people, for example, simply because I have a brother who has 70 percent hearing loss and I know quite a lot about what it takes for him when these programs are helpful to him or not. So what I want to say to begin with is that I like the idea that this subject is appearing in the House. And the other thing. I would like to assure you that when this was discussed in a working group in Brussels, the Czech Republic was in the position that this directive should be more specific and that it should give these obligations to more operators. And so, as I was informed, we did not get much support for the position, let's say, sharper, so that it was not possible to enforce the form that was more binding to the operators. And she is, let's just say, more general, so the Czech Republic was trying to make a more accurate and more specific assignment for the operators. I can guarantee that for you right now, but of course the result didn't matter just to us, and we haven't been able to form an alliance that would enforce a different type of adjustment than this general one. Why did they turn us down? They rejected us because they claimed that the operators had different conditions and that, of course, creating even more detailed descriptions in which not only translations of what they say but also sound and so on are quite expensive and so on, and not every operator can do it, so that the debate had a certain form of argument against us. And now here's what we're supposed to be translating. This was the case during the transposition: she was approved by the standard at the end of 2018 and an extremely short deadline was set for the transposition until September 2020. In view of the short deadline, the Ministry of Culture was bound by the Government's methodological guidelines, according to which the proposal for a transposition regulation did not contain anything that was not necessary for the transposition, because it would threaten that regulation would otherwise not be incorporated into the legal order in due time. So we actually had to stick to this methodology that we got, that we shouldn't inflate it, that we only have to limit it to translating what's there, and, if possible, not adding anything else to it. Of course, there were also some reasons that when we opened the debate, the operators came up with a whole range of other demands, so it wouldn't just be that, and we would probably expand the whole debate here, and it would really be a big question of how we could then follow the order that we should not have added, didn't complicate it and just do exactly what we have in terms of transposition. So that was the limit where we were moving around, and it was hard to figure out that we would make a more concrete adjustment here at national level. [[15.10 hours]] The European idea is that this is such a general basis, and on this basis individual countries are to make so-called action plans in which they will adopt procedures in which they would also differentiate between operators with different conditions and, accordingly, they would be assigned tasks. So the way it was treated was that now you can give this order so you don't think it's some kind of subtlety again. It is a certain tightening up in relation to the deaf for those operators, so it is a step forward. The point was that it could have been bigger, but they say that we should be doing this gradually by means of action plans in individual countries. So we finally did what we had left to do, that we limited it to adopting this general amendment, with the fact that we can now continue to talk about how to adjust it more strictly in the Czech Republic. Otherwise, there is one other thing, because Mr Nacher mentioned whether there is sufficient communication with the deaf organisation. I know there really was a need to meet, I want to make sure that the meeting took place. I think that some things have been explained, maybe some things have not exactly been understood, and I know that a number of things have become clear in the meantime. And I think the basic thing that I am now making clear to you is that it was not about helping the deaf, but that we had to stick to what was imposed on us by the government, how to proceed in the transposition of this directive, and that we will also proceed, as we were recommended further, to adopt the action plan in the Czech Republic as well. [[Your time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u39	Well, thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. Shows that little one. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u40	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his reply. I would just like to say that this is often about the communication, as well as the misunderstanding, because it is precisely in these days when there is essential information in the media around the covideo, so it is a crucial source of information for the hearing impaired, because they cannot listen to radios and the like, so they have no other choice. The truth is that we too can set an example here, and we should. So I've been thinking for a long time that maybe at the press conferences we're holding here, there could be a sign language interpreter. So I'm also giving it to inspiration, the same thing at the Office of the Government - we can set an example to maximize. This means that it is not often about the law itself, but also about the will to make it available. So much more of a comment, I don't know if that's a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u41	The Minister is interested in responding. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u42	I just want to say that I see space right now, in an action plan that we now have the opportunity to do in the Czech Republic and which will follow up on this general adjustment in the transposition of the European directive, and in which we can also agree on a more precise, concrete task with the operators for what we want them to do for the deaf. So now I have finished all of this, and I would like to thank Mr Nacher once again very sincerely for raising the subject, because deaf people are a great deal, and we do not often realize it. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u43	I thank you, and I ask Mr Jiří Kohoutek to give his interpellation to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am addressing you on the issue of COVID-19 vaccination. According to the publicly available server iDNES, the infection with the South African mutation of coronavirus in the Czech Republic was first demonstrated in a person who was vaccinated with two doses of vaccine. This was confirmed by a doctor and former national testing coordinator Marián Hajdúch. According to him, he is a patient of a working age who is hospitalized with moderate illness. Thus, we have the first fully vaccinated person infected with the South African version of coronavirus, so far has a moderate progression and is not a senior. Yes, we know that vaccination protection is never 100%. A study of Israeli scientists also drew attention to infection with the South African variant of coronavirus in people fully vaccinated last week. According to its findings, the South African mutation causes the disease in vaccinees much more frequently than any other mutation COVID-19. So, Minister, I ask you: How do you see the vaccination plan in connection with the constant mutation of the virus, where the vaccine developed on a specific form of one virus is proven to be ineffective on another mutation? Does this mean that we will be vaccinated over and over again with different vaccine modifications, as other mutations of the virus will constantly appear? What effect would this have on human health, as well as on the economy and society in general? Are mutations, according to your information, natural development and adaptation of the virus, or do they bear signs of artificial modification, as Dr. Microbiologist Soňa Peková claims? [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u45	Thank you. The Minister is still not here, so you will receive an answer in writing within 30 days. Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak to the Minister of Health, Radek Koten will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u46	So once again, before the absolutely empty seats of the members of the government, I greet the viewers on live air. I must say that it is unbelievable that in the time of the greatest crisis - well, now there is one - the biggest crisis that I personally remember - the government, including the Minister of Health, seems to be setting up its business instead of coming in, standing up to its MPs and answering the citizens' questions. [[Minister Zaoralek came to the government bench to sit down.]] I knew the Prime Minister wouldn't be here, so I prepared an interview for the Minister of Health, who is exactly the same as the Prime Minister, and I thought at least he would answer me. But here, the transmissions from the House have stopped being transmitted through the Czech Republic so that the public will not know how the government doesn't work here, how it doesn't work and what the public expects from the government, and to be sure, none of the government is here except the Minister of Culture, and if he leaves for a smoke, then neither is he. The contents of my interpelation are exactly the same. Unfortunately, through this interpelation, I ask the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic, Mr Arenberger, to push for the Government to discuss a petition of the Health Forum signed by thousands of doctors, nurses, students, educators, entrepreneurs, tradesmen and seniors, which has been passed through the House's petition committee and whose inclusion in the House's programme will be tried because it seems that the professional public is not as united, or it is 100% that it is not as uniform as this government and the Minister of Health is lying to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u47	Thank you for keeping time, the answer will be delivered in writing within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, will speak to the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior. [[Objection from the diaper.]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm gonna ask you to clean up the pitch. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent Home Secretary, like a lot of other people who we would like to go back to the restaurant for some lunch in case the restaurant opens, we were very surprised by your statement that PCR tests should be required for the restaurants. In the case of a family of four who would go there for lunch, for example on their way to a recreation place, a cottage, etc., she would have to give 6,000 for testing herself plus her two children. I ask myself the question, in the sense, if a simple antigen test is enough for a job, then why PCR tests must be used in restaurants, and for that money. [[15.20 hours]] There's an inevitable thought sneaking in here for me. We've been prevented from discussing the SAO's report on purchases of these various things, such as drapes, respirators, plus tests. The only thing that evokes in me is that you actually need to process it in some way, and therefore such nonsense measures. Otherwise, as far as the tests developed by Czech producers are concerned, they are tested relatively high reliability, so they are not used in the Czech Republic. So once again, the only thing I can think of is that it's because of the non-transparency of purchasing different ministries, whether it's the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Health, so you just want to turn those things in some way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u49	Thank you for keeping time. You will receive the answer in writing. I would like Mr Vojtěch Munzar to present his intervention on the Minister of Health, Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the willingness of ministers and government members to respond to interpelation is considerable. I thank the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture for arriving at the interview. All the more so, with the strange act of the Minister of Health, who apologized to us for interpelling text only after the beginning of the interpellation. It is disrespect from the side not only to us who have prepared the interpelation, but I think it is disrespect and an arrogant approach to the entire House. [[his]] So not only does the new minister ignore the House's resolution - and that is what I wanted to ask him - and he wants to go beyond the legal frameworks that give him the laws of the Czech Republic, but he also ignores the House itself. Or maybe it's fear, I don't know. It is also beautifully illustrated by the appointment of the Minister, the nature of the Minister. So I will bring my intervention when the Minister takes the floor, and I will ask the President to tell the Minister my complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u51	Thank you. So I'm going to ask Mr. Skopeček to give his interpellation to Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u52	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I wanted to ask the Minister in my interview on the subject of contributions and the topic of possible remission of contributions, or the advances on health and social insurance for the smallest entrepreneurs, for the CFI, and we will certainly agree that the pandemic of the health crisis in the Czech Republic is not ending, but that the economic consequences, so we will be spinning out of them for a relatively long time, even after the numbers of infected or the number of people in hospitals are very low. I am very worried about a large number of especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will not open up after the last restrictions imposed on them by the Czech government have ended. We have all seen that the various subsidy programs that individual ministries invent are quite complex and that entrepreneurs get to them intricately. I therefore want to ask the Minister if he or she is counting on forgiving social and health insurance advances for entrepreneurs. The ODS has prepared a bill that we are prepared to file. I want to ask the Minister if we can't count on any support or synergies in this sense, because I believe that leaving money with the entrepreneurs themselves in the form of forgiveness of these advances is a better way to help them in this difficult situation and save them from bankruptcy than from inventing and paying money through various complex government programs and subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u53	I thank you and give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, the CFI did not have to - I perceive very much what you are saying - pay social security advances in the period March to August 2020, with only a waiver of the minimum amount of the advance and the rest had to be paid. The pension insurance premiums and the contribution to the national employment policy established from the assessment base for 2020 have been reduced for each calendar month in which, at least at the beginning of the month, self-employment was carried out in the period referred to in paragraph 1 by an amount of 2 544, in respect of self-employed persons engaged in the main self-employed activity - I am in a hurry to do so - and 1 018, in the case of self-employed self-employed persons engaged in ancillary activity. This measure has had a significant impact on the revenue side of the state budget, it was about 14 billion, but I say, I am glad that it helped the Social Security Office, of which 6.6 billion in 2020 and 7.4 billion in 2021. That's where the overpayment is. In 2020, the waiver of advances for health insurance came to 6.9 billion, and we estimate that it will still be another 3 billion in 2021 - we cannot know the exact number, because of course there will be a billing. On 26 February 2021, Law No. 95/2021 on the compensation bonus for 2021 and here I would like to remind you that there has been - I believe you have also voted for it - an increase in the compensation bonus from CZK 500 to CZK 1,000 for the calendar day of the bonus period. So the compensatory bonus, in addition to the existing function - the provision of funds for a living, which corresponds to roughly the minimum wage - also replaces the role of some of the existing support programmes that seek to secure the contribution - well, it's more than the minimum wage, that's 15,000, about 15,000 less, and that's up to 30,000. At present, two House prints are being submitted. You've probably talked about them, I'm not going to name them here for time reasons at the moment, given that it would mean... it has to be done across the board, because it can't be forgiven, like in some exceptional cases in taxes, but for the reasons listed in the tax order. You can't do it across the board here, you can't just do it across the board. It would mean a big impact on health insurance companies at the time of the covid, which actually... now we have increased the payment for state insured people historically to a very high amount, this year it was about 55 billion, last year about 26, social also, and that is why we basically proceeded to increase the compensation bonus to a thousand to make up for all those who are actually affected by the pandemic by government restrictions, that they have a kind of blackout here and that it applies to minimal social, health. Moreover, the remission of insurance premiums - yet such a last remark - would put those who pay the so-called flat-rate tax, which is over some 70 000 taxpayers. The waiver of insurance premiums is effectively public aid and, in the light of the regulation of public aid, supplemented by the so-called temporary framework, it is necessary to respect the obligations associated with it - a timely application for identification and so on. We could crash here, too, from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Member is interested in an additional question, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. It leads me to this, to this consideration, the fact that this program worked very well, businessmen, self-employed people praise the forgiveness of advances very much, it is certainly a simpler way of supporting them than through various subsidy programs. We are getting into a bit of a weird situation, that businessmen receive a compensatory bonus, and from that point on, they pay compulsory contributions to the state. I don't think that makes much sense. We propose this for half a year, this forgiveness of advances, or the remission of social health insurance, because we expect that there will be relaxation and that, perhaps in the second half of the year, such a measure will no longer be necessary, but for now, we see it as an important measure, because every week, every month, when businessmen and entrepreneurs are closed and unable to carry out their activities, of course, the likelihood of their bankruptcy and their termination is growing. So, in my opinion, this support system is even more important than it had in the past period, in which I think it has found its purpose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u57	Please, Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u58	Only very briefly. Even the compensation bonus has been evaluated as a functioning programme, it has also been included in the parliamentary committee led by your President Stanjura, so I would like to note that. We raised the compensation bonus to a thousand, it's in the clean, it's not taxing the money, I want to remind you. And it's not that it pays for social, health, but it pays, at least... It's minimal social and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u59	Thank you. Mr. Beitl just made it. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. You can give your interview to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u60	Mr President, Minister absent, ladies and gentlemen, in an emergency measure issued by the Ministry of Education, you deal with personal presence in the education of children from kindergarten schools and pupils of the first grade of primary schools so that they could go to school all the time, so that they did not have rotational instruction and their parents were able to pursue their profession. It is perfectly okay that they are children of health professionals and pedagogical workers, members of the IRS and children of social workers. This is less understandable in the case of employees of Financial Administration, Labour Offices or Czech Social Security Administration. There are other necessary professions, but so be it. However, I am wondering whether you realize that other professions other than medical or pedagogical are associated with the operation of schools, for example, but also hospitals. I'm asking if you understand that the difficulties of babysitting young school and preschool children are caused by your actions every other day by parents involved in the operation of open schools or hospitals. I'm talking about cleaning girls or cooks and others whose activities school can't work without. In the Liberec Region, for example, there are three to four children on average for one school facility whose parents work in schools but are not educators directly and their presence in the workplace, i.e. in school, is important for its operation. I guess we can agree that we can't cook lunch remotely. I ask, then, what will be the next procedure of the Ministry of Education and how quickly you are able to correct this irregularity. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u61	The Minister is excused for reasons of work throughout today's day. You will receive the answer in writing. And I ask Mrs Pekarová Adamová to give her interpellation to the Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I must say that I am very upset that, while I have up to my 11th interpellation, it is my turn to interpel, and that is because of the numerous apologies that are outnumbered here today, in contrast to the fact that there are ministers present. I would therefore ask you, President of the House, that, although we are already coming to the end of the parliamentary term - perhaps some ministers are already packing - so that they really do not neglect this obligation of theirs, that you call on them to do so as their party colleague, and that it simply does not happen that the majority of the government has not even half, but most of the government has the Chamber of Deputies at the salami. Now to interpel, which I wanted to give to Mr Hamáček - because he apologized, and I do not give it, to Mr Babiš - because he is excused, I do not give it either, and to Mr Arenberger, who apologized at the last minute, so the question will be answered again, until maybe in a month, when it may already be out of date. Anyway, I have a very simple question, and the question can be answered either yes or no. I really only ask for such a brief answer, and I would very much like it if there is no longer the will to come here physically, so that it doesn't take 30 days, but at least to take care of it and hasten it. And I ask the absent minister whether he and his predecessor, Mr Blatný, will combine his functioning at the Minister's post with the fact that if he is a minister, he will not be vaccinated with an uncertified unapproved vaccine. All I need is a yes or a no. I'm not asking for any more detailed answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u63	Thank you. Madame, I don't have much of those party colleagues in the government, maybe only three, but I assure you, I don't like it either, that they're not here. So I promise I will turn to the government so that we can somehow address the interpelation in a dignified way. I will ask Mrs Balcarová, but she is not present in the hall, so according to the Rules of Procedure, this interpelation is failing. Next, Mr Martin Jiránek, Mr. Martin Jiránek, was drawn and will lecture on Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, colleagues, President Biden wants to agree on a form of a minimum corporate tax rate worldwide. The first proposal is 21 percent, but it's also spoken internally about 15 or 25. Our Ministry of Finance has commented negatively on this in the media that it, I quote, "is a risk of restricting the sovereignty of countries in the field of income taxation." This idea of the US President in the fight against tax havens makes sense to us, and we see more positive than the negative, already because countries around the world are running about $200 to $300 billion a year because of tax havens. For the Czech Republic, it would mean about CZK 10 billion plus minus in extra budget. So can you elaborate on the ministry's negative attitude a little so that we can work on your perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u65	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, I'd be happy to divorce him. You know, there's always one sentence coming out of an expression, and if that statement were read whole, then - and you did it best to interpel me. I'm very happy to explain. On the other hand, I welcomed the activity of the new US administration, headed by President Biden, who said that he wanted to return to the negotiating table, for example, on the taxation of digital dierent giants across the world. And then he shifted it a little bit and said that he didn't just want to deal with the taxation of digital companies, but that he wanted to deal with the taxation of global companies. I very much support this, because there are enormous injustices here. But, of course, the proposal, he's been proposing for a while, but he's been a little on the ice, it's being discussed on the OECD platform, and the proposal counts on some minimum tax, like you said, corporate corporation taxes at 21 percent. I think, you know, it's not that simple. You have to know the bowels of this proposal because it can happen that in a certain country there is a statutory corporate tax of 21 percent, but there is a deduction that will reduce it to 10.5. Maybe we have certain countries, and I have concrete problems. So it's never black or white, it's black and white. We want to know the parameters of the proposal, and I just said it, income tax, which is also a corporate tax, so far it has always been and is a highly national political issue. This is not even a harmonised tax, so it will be an intervention in a particular national political sovereignty, and I am very vigilant and I believe that anyone will be vigilant. And then we need to know exactly what the bowels are. I want to tax global giants, watch out, I want to! Because I see there's a whole series of injustices. Digital companies, classic examples, and maybe it's not just them. And please call it tax havens, that's awfully simplistic, because that would be a different subject, maybe an interpellation, which is actually a tax havens, which is not a tax havens. We already have taxation to third countries today, like 35 percent of the withholding tax, and so on, we're not gonna do that right now, so I'm gonna go somewhere else. So I basically support the idea of taxing global companies, but I want to know its exact conditions. The proposal was made officially for the first time last week. He basically already had a proposal, but now the specific one, the proposal was submitted completely abandoning the monitoring of selected types of activities. This is not a new solution to the digital economy, but all multinational companies want to be addressed. I say why not. It's a circus of 100 of the largest multinational groups. In fact, the issue of moving and erosion of the tax base, what you're afraid of, isn't that much to worry about. But again, to be perfectly fair, we don't know the parameters of the proposal in detail. [[15.40 hours]] I'm open, I've been open to every proposal. The digital tax that was. Digital fee on the OECD platform. After all, we have been actively applying for this for many years, and it was the former US administration that was holding it back, let's face it. Then I also supported the French Finance Minister when he brought to European level... anything. You know, I even sent a Digital Tax Act here on behalf of the government, which was out of some kind of despair that no one would care. And you're supposed to look at the fact that there's basically this international speedster going through our dorms, and I like to compare it, and basically we don't have any of it. They haven't paid - I can pull it out for you, of course, in an anonymous form - for tax almost nothing in 10 years that they've been doing on our IT technologies. So I support it, but I say it's an intervention in our national sovereignty, and we just want to know the guts, we want to know some primary justice, and we want to know what pillars it stands on, that's all. In this way, I would say that there is a complete interpretation of the torn sentence that you quoted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u67	Thank you. The Member is not interested in an additional question. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] In that case, it is Mr Petr Bendl's turn to give the floor to the Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr absent Minister, I was hoping that you would go to the meeting of the interpelee, just as your predecessor did, with whom I did not agree in many ways, but I hope that you will not be among the ministers who have ignored this part of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting in the long run, because it would be to the detriment of informing people who are interested in learning the answers to the questions that Members are asking. My question is directed to the vaccine Sputnik, a vaccine that does not have the necessary requirements, is not certified, is not tested, and you, as is evident from the media, are trying to enforce this vaccine and its application in the Czech Republic. I want to ask you who will bear any costs if you force a doctor to apply this vaccine, who will bear any costs if there are health problems related to the vaccine, because this is a serious question of whether any case of a citizen being vaccinated with an uncertified vaccine, not tested enough, will happen. If that happens, he'll probably go to trial. So I'm wondering if the doctor who applied the vaccine will pay the costs, or if the state will bear the costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing within 30 days. I give the floor to Mr Jakuba Jand to present his intervention to Petr Arenberger, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u70	Thank you for the floor. I regret to say, Minister, that one of your first acts was the confusion that you brought into the conditions for amateur and recreational sports, which, among other things, affects children and youth. I'm concerned about reports of her suffering from a lack of movement. Many experts point out that obesity may be one of the current acute consequences. Perhaps you know the negative effects this may have on them and their overall health in the future. The solution is offered. Children are tested in schools, so why not let them in the sports grounds to a greater extent? We don't need to have conversations over and over again if there's 10, 20 or 6 times 2. Everything can be resolved even more reasonably - by keeping normal and tightened hygiene measures. Otherwise, the kids will stunt us, we will lose the opportunity to grow new top athletes, we will make the next generation lost. And I want to believe that none of us want that. So I'm asking you when you're going to give a slightly clearer word about restrictions and the possibility of free movement of people, including sports. There are more than 10 million questioners who deserve an answer, and among them are the children and youth we should be looking for in the first place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Marian Bojko was drawn and will interpel the Minister of Health Petr Arenberger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u72	Hello again. Minister, recently the emergency situation ended and with it some bans, including the lack of more people. First you decided it would be 20. You turned it into two people. The Supreme Administrative Court is already handling this. The police predicted that he wouldn't enforce this. Do you realize that 80 percent of people are already out there without a drape? How do you get them not to do that? Moving out with a mask on your mouth is simply nonsense that no one in the Department of Health can reasonably justify. On what criteria do you open a swimming pool? Can you comment on that? Are you really going to punish people with fines who are going to take a bath with the kids somewhere in the pond? Is Dad or Mom gonna have a cop on his knees? The movement outside is the healthiest, but without a drape! You yourself said it in one article a year ago that you simply wear drapes only where necessary, i.e. inside, but not outside. How did you change your mind so quickly in a year? Have you noticed that a large number of traders are going to open their stores despite the current ban? They just can't handle it financially anymore. Tens of thousands of children in schools were tested, a few million were positive. If the teacher is negative, the kids are negative, why in God's name should they sit in a school in a mask? It's just nonsense. I would still like to know the answer to the question of how many people died within three months of vaccination against covid. The Supreme Administrative Court annulled the measures of the Minister of Health concerning mandatory testing for coronavirus in companies. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, he contradicted the law because he had no justification. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing. I'm begging you to dissipate the larceny. [[Purgatory in progress.]] It was subsequently drawn as 17th in the order of Mrs Jana Krutáková, who will interpel Richard Brabec, Minister of the Environment. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u74	Dear absent minister, I would like to ask you about the problem of plastic discards, i.e. waste from sorted plastics. To begin with, I would like to mention the fact that no one is questioning that approximately 30 per cent of the contents of yellow trash cans can be successfully recycled. However, there is now a major problem with the rest of the contents of the said containers, as there is no market for them in the current market for secondary raw materials. From one day to the next, however, a law began to apply to us in the Czech Republic, which says that the process of treatment of municipal waste must not result in unusable waste, or may arise in practice, but you cannot store it anywhere in the landfill, even if you have no proven use for it. So this change in the law happened that the untapped discards suddenly became so-called usable raw material on paper, and waste companies have to find application for them. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment states in its methodological instruction that 15 per cent of this usable material can be directed at landfills at the moment. Unfortunately, this methodological directive contradicts the law and therefore no company dares to dispose of 15 percent of the discard. In light of this, I therefore ask how sorting lines, waste companies, processors and municipalities should address this situation. These organizations are preparing an open letter to your hands, but I am also taking advantage of this possibility and I am asking this question. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u75	Thank you, Madame. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. It is Mrs Věra Kovářová's turn. Mr. Jelínek will present an interview with Minister of Health Petr Arenberger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u76	Dear Minister, according to government measures in force from this week, children's groups remain closed. These act as a very popular alternative to child care in relation to kindergarten schools, which, on the contrary, are already gradually opening up. Children's groups currently provide care for some 20,000 children from one to six years of age. These children's parents find themselves in a difficult situation where they cannot provide comparable care for their children and at the same time devote themselves fully to their work and other responsibilities, which is an existential problem for single parents in particular. Children in children's groups move in small groups with a maximum of 12, or 24 children. In addition, children's group workers, as well as educational staff in schools, are preferably vaccinated. The risk of transmission of the disease is therefore minimal. So I'm asking why they got the children's groups of imaginary černý Petr. What reasons have led to their non-opening, which not only seems unconvincing to me? Finally, let me ask if the Ministry of Health has a timetable to abolish restrictions on the activities of children's groups and, if so, when children's groups should finally open up. And I'm going to take this opportunity to ask, it also applies to forest nursery schools, which are small groups of children. You're also locked up, or only preschoolers can do it. In kindergarten schools, there may be preschoolers up to 15 children. Why can't this be the case with forest kindergartens when there are children around 15 children? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u77	Thank you. The Minister of Health is already present. I don't know what extent he's heard and he's capable of reacting. If so, I will, of course, give you my word, Minister. The subject was children's groups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u78	Mr President, so also President, sorry, ladies and gentlemen, dear Members, Members. So I heard at the end that these are children's groups, forest kindergartens, etc. We were just discussing this with the legal department today, and we were discussing this question. It also seems perfectly logical for this to continue, and I assume that we will resolve this very quickly so that this type of educational process can also be visited. I don't know the date yet, of course, but I think it will be very soon. Otherwise, if you had any other questions... [[Mrs Kovářová calls for an additional question.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u79	The Member is interested in a supplementary question and the Minister can then respond directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u80	Thank you, Minister, for just arriving for my interpellation. So what I'm supposed to understand is that children's groups just because they're so small, they could be open, and that also means kindergarten schools, not forest clubs, but kindergartens, because they're all out there, and they're also small groups? At the same time, in normal kindergartens, where only preschoolers can be, it is up to 15 children, and in children's groups or forest kindergartens, the collectives are the same size. So I'm asking if I really understood it correctly, that you were discussing it, and that there is hope that it might change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u81	Thank you. The Minister is interested in responding. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u82	Yes, I have put this issue at the disposal of our legal department, and I have been promised that it will actually be resolved during today, tomorrow, so we will see how they agree with our colleagues, so that it will actually be within the scope of the current restriction, while allowing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u83	Well, that was a quick answer. Next up is Mr Pavel Jelínek. He will also interpel the Minister of Health. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. Currently, vaccination is taking place in our population against COVID-19. Persons over 65 years of age can now register. Younger years may come at the end of summer. Nevertheless, I must ask the question of the suitability of vaccination of people who have provenly high levels of antibodies to COVID-19. There is a time limit to when the level of antibodies after the infection is considered sufficient for 90 days. What numbers does this time come from? There are known cases where even after vaccination, antibodies do not reach the required level. On the contrary, vaccination at a time when the vaccine has a high level of antibodies can be potentially dangerous and disrupt the immune system? Are you considering testing for antibodies before vaccination, or is that a marginal question for you? Is there another question about whether a person holding a covid passport based on vaccination and a person who has a high level of antibodies after losing the disease are different from the point of view of immunity? We have not yet received a clear answer as to how long antibodies have been acting after vaccination. And here I return again to the question of where those 90 days after losing the covide came from, when some sources report up to nine months in 80 percent of patients after losing COVID-19 disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please let the Minister of Health take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u86	Mr President, honourable Members, you are right, there are certainly a lot of open questions that need to be confirmed or excluded. Clinical monitoring is ongoing. Those three months are basically the primary information that comes from the first tests. We even know that when plasma is taken, which we then use to treat patients, and we need a high level of antibodies as soon as possible, for example, 14 days after the symptoms have subsided, but not more than three months later, and often we don't have to find COVID-19 antibodies. On the other hand, there are data that show that it is necessary for up to six months, or it is very individual. On the other hand, antibody levels are a good indicator for us to know that we have some kind of protection, but it's actually protection in the fabric part or the antibody part of protection against viral infection, and in viral infections, cellular immunity is also very important. So a patient may actually be protected against viral infection in the long term, and yet may not have a detectable antibody level after an infection. Others, of course, are antibodies to vaccination, but they aim at something other than antibodies to their own viral infection. [[After?]] These are against the pocket we're detecting, against the pocket of the virus, or the whole package, and when you're vaccinated, it's always where it's targeted against the specific unit of the virus, which in this case, in all cases, for the vaccines we have, against the spike protein, or, in fact, the instrument that the virus penetrates into the cell. So it's very complicated, but there are these data, and we're thinking of different ways to go on. Maybe we're thinking of giving spa care to those patients who have been infected with COVID-19, currently three months, but our epidemiologists are looking into the situation if it couldn't be another six months, just as long as the antibody immunity is detectable. So it's really open, it can't be answered more seriously at this point, but you're right that these are still open questions that we're looking for. [[16.00 hours]] This is possible, but it is not yet done because it is assumed that even a patient who has had COVID-19 disease may become ill again after some time. So we haven't made any distinctions between the patient who's had and hasn't had the disease. But I think that at the moment or when vaccination isn't enough, of course, it would be one of the solutions that we could offer vaccinations to more people, but as I say, the level of the antibodies is falling anyway, so if we offer after some extended period of vaccination after... or vaccination after the disease has been lost, we certainly won't make a mistake. I don't think it's supposed to put the patient at risk, because we're actually targeting something completely different from what he has antibodies to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u87	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u88	Thank you. So I guess from your answer, I found out that there's a difference between a person being vaccinated and a person losing the disease. However, vaccination is also a provocation of the immune system to produce antibodies. The disease itself also forces the organism to produce antibodies, unfortunately with a number of side effects, and it is the worst way to vaccination, to lose the disease. That is why it is absolutely incomprehensible to give a bonus, for example in the form of a covid passport for vaccinated people, and those who did not get sick by their own fault, to punish the impossibility of enjoying the benefits of even temporary immunity. Are you considering allowing those who at their own expense to determine the level of antibodies to benefit from similar benefits to those vaccinated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u89	Thank you. The Minister is interested in answering, so I'm giving him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u90	Mr President, honourable Members, this, in turn, is an open question. We must proceed with this because it is a so-called covid passport, or perhaps some international tool for identifying vaccinated, sick or patients who have experienced the disease or possibly have a negative COVID-19 examination, so we must do so in accordance with European legislation or European regulations. Of course, we're figuring out all the possibilities. I think that definitely determining antibodies is one way to identify a relatively low-risk patient. But as I'm saying again, immunity to this viral infection isn't just antibody, it's cellular, and it's relatively complicated. Sometimes the level of antibodies that does not exist can still identify a patient who has high protection against viral infection and vice versa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u91	Thank you. Next in turn, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will speak to Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u92	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister Havlíček, I would like to ask - and my question is very simple: only if I hope you will very soon open all services, shops, what will it look like? I read on the Internet that you're thinking about the possibility of mandatory entry with a test. I want to ask if it's going to look like it's really going to happen every three days... Every 72 hours a person will have to be tested for an antigen test, so they'll have to line up somewhere. You guys talked about self-tests not being allowed, just certified companies and so on. So I'd like to ask you exactly what this is going to look like, if you really have to have a PCR test every three days or once a week. I think it's a total expensive and expensive nonsense, and it's a really big fuss for people. If you want to start the economy, I think this is really gonna scare people off, it's really pointless. If you'd like to take the test option, I don't see any reason why people couldn't take the test themselves at home or, for example, have tests there before entering, if there was a big concert, so before this guy enters the concert, do saliva tests, where, of course, these tests already work in many countries, and within 10 minutes you have the result. But I still think it doesn't matter, which is why I would like to ask: How do you plan to make it look, because you want to open up some services by the end of April, and I think that even those people would like to know these answers, whether or not you're going to provide them with the tests. Thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u93	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Next, Mr Jakub Janda will speak to Minister Robert Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u94	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I am addressing you with an extremely serious problem, which is childhood obesity. Last year, this situation got very bad, the improvement will take a long time. And most importantly, no concrete solution is on the horizon. Just a small recap: We have almost closed schools, over the past year the children have not been there before they were. It's a closed line of sports grounds. Physical education is completely backwards. All that's left is a certain possibility of outdoor sports, and that's not enough. Children are dependent on online teaching, which has its limits, and gym training is one of the areas that suffers the most. Either he's locked up during the class, or he's completely sidetracked, and the results are coming up, unfortunately. Teachers and obesityologists talk about children getting fat. In some extreme cases, even tens of kilograms have gained weight over the past year, which means, among other things, that they are dealing with serious health problems - heart disease, high blood pressure, cholesterol, diabetes. Even in children, excess pounds are very difficult to lose, or to return their weight to their original state will take a long time, or even more briefly, it is already too late. So what do you want to do with the problem of childhood obesity? What methodical steps do you want to solve for the failure of gym class during online teaching? And more importantly, when will the kids finally start going back to school? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u95	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. Next in turn, Mr Petr Bendl will speak to Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, my question is simple. The Ministry of Agriculture has created a programme and issued a grant title for companies in agriculture employing more than 250 employees. This program fulfilled the amount of half a billion crowns. And I want to ask you, which companies are actually involved and how many companies in the Czech Republic are in the area of agriculture or in the area to which this subsidy title is written - once again I stress, half a billion, how many companies are involved in the Czech Republic. How many companies do we have employing more than 250 people in agriculture to draw on such resources, as around 34,000 are registered in agriculture today, so I would like to know how many companies you have created this program for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u97	Thank you. It shall also be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Karla Maříková will speak to Minister Petr Arenberger, the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the results of antigen testing in schools are absolutely trivial. Looks like the kids were at home either completely unnecessary, or the quality of the tests is very bad. On Monday, 35 729 pupils were tested for antigen tests at COVID-19 in Prague and returned to kindergarten and primary schools. The PCR test confirmed positivity in 15 pupils, i.e. approximately 0.04 percent of positive cases. By the way, the price of finding one positive antigen test is 70 930 crowns. [[16.10 hours]] So the question is, if the tests are so reliable, the schools have been closed for nothing, so why do children have to have their noses and mouths covered in schools? Or, if the tests are not reliable, why are children tested by antigen tests at all and the state is throwing away a lot of money for buying these tests, as the manufacturers themselves say, to capture the symptoms of individuals before children are without symptoms? The MEDICAL LEPU tests used in schools in Austria have completely failed. Based on tests in the lab, their sensitivity is 25 percent. I'm wondering if you're gonna do something about this, and how do you guarantee your parents that the tests are faulty? for their children unharmed. If these numbers are going to last, I wonder if you're thinking of shutting down testing in schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u99	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u100	Mr President, honourable Members. Testing is the basis for allowing us to make a larger group of children, adults, virtually anyone, and to deal with the pandemic situation today, when the virus charge is still high. We have an arbitral limit of about 100 patients per 100,000 inhabitants, today we move about twice to three times, yesterday it was even a little bit more. This means that when we realize, we have 300 people in the population per 100,000 inhabitants, and so if we divide it, it's three per thousand, so that's three per mile that we're catching in a healthy population. So it's not a big surprise that the capture is small, and it's not because the tests aren't working, but it's because we really can't expect more patients in a healthy population today than according to the statistics, on average. Even in children's groups, children are expected to be healthier than adults. That, of course, is speculation, but some data showed that too. So our statistics are not quite clear. We have basically homogeneous representation of both older and younger in individual age categories, because we currently have a British mutation that doesn't look much at age. So, of course, testing has a scientific basis, and it is a tool to identify the healthy and the sick, and it is basically an argument for those who are afraid to send children to school just to avoid getting infected. So that's the second point of view that we have to offer an instrument that would make it possible. PCR testing should, of course, be even more effective, more accurate, more comfortable. On the other hand, comparisons or different surveys. Maybe the Academy of Sciences tested its employees. He's got about 600 at the institute that ran the tests, and they've had practically as low findings as antigenic tests. Plus, the antigen tests we're working with come up with certification. The question is whether the certification is done validly or not, but there is no clear methodology to verify the sensitivity of the test. Against the PCR test, it's a survey against the sick, with what antigenic charges and so on. There's a lot of questions about the methodology. Today we have no other tool but to accept the manufacturer's certificate that the test has declared quality. What is also important to realize, and I hope that the numbers will not change significantly with regard to the capture of patients in testing in schools and kindergartens, but we have to realise that yesterday's testing - I already said it here and yesterday in the House - that yesterday's testing does not indicate what the situation in the children's group is, but what the situation in the family of each child is, because the child came home this morning and had a nose swab, so it could not be infected elsewhere than in the home environment. This practically reflects the occurrence of viral infections in the general population, in the home environment, where children were at home, had no contact with their friends, had no extracurricular activity. It just reflects something other than what we'd like to watch it for later. The question is, if we get more data when we test the collectives, maybe we'll see it today from today's data, or possibly next week or weeks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u101	Thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, if the population is as healthy as the numbers show us, why are children being tested or wearing drapes? And you still haven't answered me how do you guarantee that the tests are really safe? You're talking about certification. Who gave them the certification? I assume they got it from somewhere in China, but it wasn't the Department of Health. So how do you guarantee your parents that the tests the kids are using in their noses are really safe? Next thing. I'm being approached by teachers of the 0th and the first years that children are unable to unpack the test, let alone carry it out, and we can hardly ask them to perform it professionally, such as health care professionals. Of course, that's reducing the sensitivity, so if this is relevant at all. Children must be tested twice a week, employees once a week. Why is that? Kids are a bigger risk group?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u103	Thank you, and the Minister will answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u104	Mr President, honourable Members, children are not a more risky group. We offer this to ensure that quality testing is carried out in schools in particular, so we offer it twice a week. In other institutions, we have come to a compromise and we do it only once a week, but it is not enough for adults, but it is because it is a logistical problem. When you realize that maybe you'd do tests twice a week in a business, and because it's usually done by the service, you'd have to do it every Monday, or you'd have to do it twice a week after five days. So it's just more complicated than that, and I understand it was done this way. Question two, how did you ask if security is guaranteed for whoever's gonna stick that tool up their nose, if I got the question right? This is really certification from the manufacturer and it's the same certification as when a child has a toy from China or from anywhere else, so of course he can lick it again. There may be some colors again. We don't expect this candy bar to be any special color, because it would just be a useless investment, so I wouldn't expect any complex fabrics. Plus, the contact is so short, even if we were waiting for phthalates in the plastic, it's really an extremely small time. So I wouldn't worry about it compared to what chemicals children come into contact with other materials, including clothing and the like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u105	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Next, Mr Radek Koten will speak to the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a few questions for you. Of course, this is directly related to children and how they are tested in schools. I picked up some idea on the radio today when I went to work to test the kids with antigen tests. [[PCR?]] I mean, when I imagine these kids should be sticking some long stick up their noses, I'm really getting chills. Because many children, for example, have a disturbed nasal septum, and there would be quite a lot of bleeding. So that's one thing. [[16.20 hours]] If these children are tested with an antigen test or some other test, then I don't understand why they have to wear drapes, they have limited movement activity. I could say it my way, because in the time that covid is, I've gained 10 kg, and unfortunately, the kids have it exactly the same way. So why can't they practice? Another such thing is directly related to the fact that parents are required to be tested at work, so we will also test children. And you said here a moment ago that basically those kids are coming from a family environment, so that makes a lot more sense. As far as the safety of the tests is concerned, I would very much like to do that - and I would like it to be examined because the disinfectant is some ethylene oxide that's cancerous. I also want to ask why we don't use the home-made test manufacturers available here. The last point is a pretty important thing. We're forcing people here, health professionals who have had covid and antibodies, so we're forcing them here under threat of a job statement to get inoculated. Do you see any logic in this in case these people have antibodies, obviously what they've been through, so why are their employers forcing them to give themselves a vaccine under the threat of testimony? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u107	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u108	Mr President, honourable Members, I do not know - and if you have such knowledge, it would certainly be good to publish - that someone would force someone to inoculate, because vaccination is a voluntary thing. You yourself have to register in the Reservic system and there is quite a queue, so no one at all will be forced at least from the central level to inoculate, or it is really on a voluntary basis. Otherwise, as far as the chemicals used in the collection are concerned, there is a minimum of them, because the substance used for detection does not come to the place from which it is collected. The stick you're inserting into the sampling point is dry, so it's just a classic plastic material like a toothpick in your mouth or maybe some kind of cotton wool stick that's used to clean your ears and stuff like that. Of course, antigen tests are taken so that the material needs to be removed. The tests are designed not to be taken in a professional way, that is, from the rhino. Only a paramedic has to do that, and it's not required in children, it's taken from the front of the nasal cavity. Another option is the oral cavity, we prefer the front part again, and we certainly specified it, or from saliva. Non-invasive possibilities are even more, but it was also the subject of jokes when we specified it so that SSHR could then choose, so I won't mention them here, but it needs to be sputum and more. It's not just that it's necessary to put the plastic somewhere far away. I was at this kindergarten on Monday morning, where I expected it to be the most dramatic, that the kids would cry there and they wouldn't want to have it examined, but I went there and I talked to this little boy who said to me, "Well, it's nothing, so I brushed my teeth in the morning and now I'm just cleaning my nose. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u109	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u110	Thank you for some answers, even though I didn't get all the answers here, because I asked you about the safety. I know these tests have some Chinese certification, but I would really be in favour of those tests having our Czech certification and being tested to see if there are harmful substances. It's the substance I mentioned to you that's the substance that's used for the cotton bars for some kind of sterilization of the sticks, but no one knows if the substance evaporates or if there's any trace amounts left and then if there's no problem with the mucous membranes. We're also using those tests that were meant for schools, and I don't really feel good about it, because I've been burning in my nose for three more hours. So this is the question, especially the safety of the tests and the sticks. As for an employer who blackmails his employees like that, that's really scandalous, and I hope the Ministry does something about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u111	Thank you for keeping up the time to ask the additional question. I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in answering, so let him answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u112	Hello, Mr President, dear Members, I am not quite sure that the Ministry of Health has the instrument to be able to change the employer's approach to employees. I think that's what other organs are meant to do. Otherwise, I stress once again that vaccination is set up on a voluntary basis, and if one of the employers requires it, that is certainly the reason for the review, and if you have such an incentive, then in the context of the civil procedure, you need to submit the complaint. As far as material testing is concerned, we are really going as usual with goods that are supplied from abroad. I will have to examine whether it is possible to examine the safety and safety of what material reserves buy and put into circulation in parallel after competing with the material material material. There was another question about why Czech products were not used. Of course, they can be used wherever the material is purchased individually, but if it is purchased centrally, it is a standard selection procedure that has some parameters, and it is open to everyone, so of course we will be happy when the Czech manufacturer wins it, but he has to offer such conditions as someone from abroad. These are defined by the selection procedure and are also open for Czech producers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u113	Thank you. Next, Mr Jan Skopeček will speak to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u114	Thank you very much. I had a similar interview with the absent secretary as with Minister Schillerová. Since Secretary Maláčová is not here, I will settle for the answer that Minister Schillerová recently gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u115	Thank you, that was quick. With further intervention, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will speak to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u116	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I would like to interpel you on the incompatibility of the compensatory bonus and the new COVID program - Uncovered costs...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u117	Madam Secretary, you're being intersected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u118	I was just waiting for you to know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u119	I'll give you 15 more seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u120	Thank you. I want to interpel you about the incompatibility of the compensatory bonus and the new COVID program - Uncovered costs. This programme is intended for individuals, i.e. self-employed persons, but is not compatible with the compensation bonus, and I see a considerable contradiction in this. Why could this scheme not be compatible with the compensatory bonus if the aid from the compensatory bonus would be reduced by the calculated aid to cover costs, because this is possible for other programmes? I believe that, despite the increase, the compensation bonus will not cover all costs. When I interrogated your colleague, Minister Havlíček, on the same matter, he actually threw it at you in his reply because he replied that it did not allow the compensation bonus law. I would like to remind you, Madam Secretary, that when the amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act was being discussed here, I proposed an amendment so that the compensation bonus could be compatible with the new programmes, thus avoiding today's situation. You prevented this from happening because you gave a negative opinion on my amendment. [[16.30 hours]] So I'm curious, that's my question, if you're preparing to amend the compensation bonus law in this respect, so that the compatibility of the COVID - Uncovered rent with a compensatory bonus can be precisely here, so that the compensation bonus already paid is included in the aid and that would reduce any aid from the COVID - Uncovered rent. That's how it's designed in other cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u121	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Member, yes, the Minister of Finance is always responsible for everything. I don't mind. No, that was just an exaggeration. That's how we figured it out. During that year we went through some development, when in the spring we went more across the road, in the autumn there was a larger number of fragmented programs, because we gradually closed down individual plants. Even the Chamber of Commerce and other associations called for it, do something that will be flat, so we agreed with Vice Prime Minister Havlíček that two programs will be preserved, those that the Parliamentary Commission has called the most successful in the end, that is, compensation bonus and Antivirus, those that will remain as pillars and then create COVID - Unbiased costs and the COVID 2021 rescue circle, which are the cases that you will not invent and can really be someone who will not meet any conditions, but you will not think of it right away. We built it on different conditions than the autumn, not closed facilities, you know all that. But we figured that's why we increased the amount of compensation bonus to double and we put the incompatibility there, it's compatible only with Antivirus, they're all compatible with Antivirus. This means whether you have a compensatory bonus or you have an Uncovered Cost, we've put down 50 percent, just a similar starting point, and they're both compatible with Antivir, or if they're commuting COVID - Rent, it's also compatible, the commuter. But we wanted more people to achieve this support, so that it would be more extensive, because autumn showed that they were entrepreneurs who - and that is not regretful - met the conditions of more support, achieved them, and then some who did not meet any condition. So that's what we wanted to avoid, that's how we designed it, and that was our original intention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u123	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u124	Yes, I do. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for describing these programs to me. I am, of course, watching this very well, but I am afraid that you have not fully answered the question of why compatibility is not possible there, because today the self-employed person, if he has more uncovered costs than the compensation bonus, must return the compensation bonus, at least according to the reply of Minister Havlíček, and ask for the Uncovered Costs. Why can't you count it? Why can't there be this compatibility? COVID - Uncovered costs make it possible for other programs, but the compensation bonus is excluded from this credit, so why make it so complicated? Why not change the law? That's what I asked you if you would prepare something like this so that we could discuss it as quickly as possible so that those self-employed people would have it as simple as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u125	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in answering. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u126	No, I'm not preparing an amendment to the law. I firmly hope that we will begin to open, that is what I am clinging to, and every day with great hope I see those falling numbers, thank you to the citizens. And on top of that, I'm going to start opening and that we're all going to start working normally. That means I'm not preparing it. I get hundreds of e-mails every day, I don't say I can read everything, but I read a lot of them, a lot of them, or different messages on Messenger and stuff. I haven't noticed yet that this is going to be a problem. The compensation bonus is a thousand a day, so that, or he chooses the Uncovered Costs. The challenges have already been thrown out. If it were to happen that the Uncovered Costs would come out more favorably, that's what the businessman really has to do, so he would have to pay back the compensation bonus, that's true. But I haven't noticed yet that it's some kind of mass problem. And I don't really plan on amending the law anymore. We put it on double, the compensation bonus. I can see it from the messages I'm getting. I'm not saying everyone's happy, but I see that it's only double the amount, but now we're paying April, which means February, March, and now it's paying ahead and April. And I firmly hope that we can see very, very soon the time when we begin to return to normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u127	Thank you. The next one will be interviewed by Mrs Věra Kovářová with an interview with the Minister of Health Petr Arenberger. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u128	Dear Minister, the system of partitioning the population into groups according to the level of priority of vaccination is sometimes a little spacey. Sometimes it falls out of groups that are essentially identical to those that the system remembers. One such group is those taking care of chronic patients in their home environment. While caregivers in health and social facilities belong to a priority group, those caring for patients in the home environment do not, although both of these groups perform similar activities consisting of often continuous care for the other person. The Ministry originally stated that caregivers will be vaccinated together with a second group of chronic patients with a lower risk, but it is now stated on the Ministry's website that they will be vaccinated at a later stage. So I would like to ask you when this later phase will occur. Without interest, there will certainly be no explanation of why this change has taken place. Unfortunately, the constant changes to the decisions already taken by the government, which you boldly embarked on, characterize, and I fear, even in this case, they do not give her a good name. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u129	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer to this interpelation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u130	Mr President, honourable Members, this is a very valid question, because it was actually primarily assumed that those taking care of risky patients should be protected by vaccination, and that was still for my predecessor, but I do not renounce that responsibility. We have discussed this repeatedly, and we have come across a problem of how to define the group of those who treat it well, because it is mostly a family environment, where there is one risk patient, who is not only taken care of by one particular person, but can not only be members of the family, there may be someone from the neighborhood and so on, bringing food. So we have not been able to determine the number of such people and define who is entitled to it. If we were to inoculate just one person in the area and identify her as a caregiver, it wouldn't solve the situation anyway, because it would catch the person from the others who were there, and we wouldn't even be able to see if this institute is being used and suddenly everyone would actually appear there, completely theoretically, when we think about it. So it really came across the definition of such an institute and who it concerns. Or else I'll use my time. I'd answer that question you had before when I wasn't here. As far as children's groups are concerned, they are actually closed so far, because it is preferred that teaching be given to the youngest, that is, children from kindergartens in the last year and then the first degree as defined. These children's groups are actually something of a level, as our lawyers say, babysitting, so it has nothing to do with school preparation or teaching, and that has not been primarily preferred so far. [[16.40 hours]] On the other hand, forest kindergartens should have the same regime as any other kindergarten, where there should be no problem. Our chief hygienist today has just addressed the possibility when small groups of preschoolers are needed and there are five or six of them in that class, so it is possible of course to supplement it with some younger children from the point of view of social welfare, if there is not enough, i.e. a total of 15 who are in the final year of kindergarten. We had a bit of a problem with that at first, because we were afraid of the competence again, because such children could be like 20, and how to define, who is entitled to it, the addition of who is not entitled to it and why. But at the end of the day, I think that even in kindergarten, they'll sort it out somehow, so there's a possibility. I suppose it won't be big, maybe in big cities it's not a problem at all. As I was talking about the kindergarten where I was, they have a total of four classes and they have three groups of 15, so they have 45 children in three classes, they don't solve any refills, and they use the fourth as a sampling point, so it works pretty well for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u131	Thank you. Is the Member interested in asking an additional question? He's interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u132	Thank you for the additional answer to my previous interpellation, although I think there are preschoolers in children's groups, too, and I would like to appeal to you if you would consider it. After all, the opportunity to put a child in such a group is proven, and parents could go to work, and it is very important for many of them. And to this current interpellation of mine. Caregivers are placed in a later phase, I know those terms are hard to determine. But could you give me a preliminary estimate as to when they might get their turn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u133	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u134	Mr President, honourable Members, we are trying ideally not to set any time horizons. I'm sure it's going to be in that routine, and we're going to prefer the age criteria in particular. But I'm convinced that when we do inoculate the shipments of vaccines that are by the end of June, I think the longest time we're inoculated is about 60 percent of the population, so we're not going to make any more age restrictions, we're just going to open it up completely. So generally speaking, in a situation where the vaccine will be enough, which I perceive could be at the end of the school year, so it could be open. But don't take my word for it, anything can happen, the vans won't arrive, the vaccine will thaw, anything can happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u135	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Dana Balcarová. She's not in the O.R., her interpellation's failing. Next in line is Mr. Jiří Kohoutek. It's an interpellation to Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I appeal to you on the issue of the final imposition of a fine of CZK 550 million to the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic by the Office for the Protection of Competition for breach of the Public Procurement Act when purchasing multipurpose helicopters. This violation of the law was to consist in the fact that the Ministry you led concluded a contract for the purchase of multi-purpose military helicopters with the Government of the United States of America before the decision on its objections was delivered to the next participant in the competition for this military contract, Leonardo SpA, Italy. Dear Minister, I ask you, who is specifically responsible for the serious violation of the law and for the financial damage caused in the Ministry of Defence specifically, what measures you have taken against or against this person, what measures you have taken to prevent such a situation from happening again in the future, how this damage will be replaced by the Ministry of Defence and taxpayers, who will pay it and how, who will bear political, material and possibly criminal responsibility. Please specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u137	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Next in line is Mrs Jana Krutáková with an interview with Minister Richard Brabec. She's not here, so her interpellation is failing. And Mrs Věra Kovářová comes to the floor with an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u138	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, last year I noted that funds were to be provided from the state budget for the construction and construction of primary schools of CZK 6.8 billion to the Ministry of Education by 2028, but according to my information this amount was substantially reduced to CZK 4 billion, by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, this finding surprised me and surprised me very unpleasantly, as there is still a great shortage of basic school capacities in the vicinity of large cities, especially in the Central Bohemia Region. I understand that, in the coming years, the Czech Republic will have to look for austerity on the basis of its current state debt, but we should look for savings in meaningful places, not where we simply cannot save, and education and quality of teaching, or at least ensure that children have places to go to school, as a minimum, is a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning and development of the modern state. According to your ministry's estimate, the state budget will be burdened with debt of about CZK 552 billion, 8,8% of GDP this year. This is the record that surpassed the financial crisis from previous years, so it is clear that future governments will have to save, and that is what you have committed yourself to in your Convergence Programme, which you sent to the European Union. But do you really think we should be looking for savings in the area of education? And is increasing the capacity of primary schools an item that we will have to rubberize as a result of tightening the belts? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u139	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, thank you for the interview, but I must say that there have been a number of inaccuracies in it. We have not sent the convergence programme yet, yesterday we have just presented the current macroeconomic prediction, which is the basis for the completion of the Convergence Programme, he is in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure and the deadline for its approval by the government and dispatch to the European Commission is by 30 April. Yes, you're right, another 8,8% of GDP was right, some of the other numbers were wrong, but that's not important right now, we're not going to try each other out of numbers. I mean, only the comparison with the previous crisis is a little limping, because yes, the deficit is slightly larger than in the crisis then, that's true, but at that time it didn't essentially give government representation to entrepreneurs or crowns, while we present aid to the economy every last day or every first day of the month with cash flow, on 31 March it was comprehensively in all three fragments - direct aid, tax aid, state guarantees, guaranteed loans by state guarantees of 383 billion. And now for your interpelation and your subject. Certainly, schools aren't a budget bumper. MŠMT submitted, you rightly said, to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure on 29 March 2021, a proposal for a new documentation of the programme 130 340 Support for the development of basic education infrastructure established by municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities, the so-called Ring II, which follows the completed programme 133 330 with the working title Ring I. I would like to stress that Ring II has not yet been approved, and its content, including all financial requirements, as you mentioned, is in the negotiations between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. [[16.50 hours]] The planned programme envisages the participation of the state budget between 2021 and 2028 in the amount of CZK 6 807 682 105 and the Ministry of Finance, of course we are discussing that amount because we have doubts about one thing, not that we do not want to support it. I think Ring I and a whole series of projects - now I don't have as much time, but if you want, we can write about it or next time you can interpel me about how much money could be put into all different grant programs. I think that during our reign, there was a really large amount of it, and last year there was a lot of it. I had a press conference on the management of regions and municipalities, so I presented it there on specific graphs, numbers, you can find it on my social networks or on the Ministry of Finance's website, how it is with the management, how municipalities ended up in surplus, and I am genuinely happy about it and I want them to invest. So we're just debating whether it's real to invest it, so that's it, because the Ministry of Finance has to have revenue, when it's just budget spending against these expenses, and so it wants to know that it doesn't stay in unused demands to actually spend it. That's all we're discussing, and the debate isn't really over, so it hasn't quite finished yet. As far as Ring I is concerned, he's still... [[President: Time, Madam Secretary.]] ... an eight-year-old program. If you give me a chance, I'll finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u141	Please ask for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u142	Thank you for your answer, thank you also for your clarification, but it is about the schools and I come from a region where the sums really start to climb back to several billions, because in short, and well, the development is such that one big school will be built in one city and it is already known that another new school will be needed. It is not only the case of our village Chýn, but also Beroun and many others. I'd like to ask you to make the amount you said, the 6.8 billion, which will definitely be invested, and there's a risk that there won't be another program open that's for schools... or for investments over 50 million, and if it's delayed, we'll actually find ourselves in the situation that we were in 10 years ago and where the situation will be so critical that these kids won't have anywhere to go. I must say that prstenec I has proved very well and I hope that prstenec II will follow in a similar form. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u143	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u144	Thank you, I'll finish. That means that there are currently two events not registered in it - I'm talking about Ring I - but that's basically now... I'm not going to get involved in this right now. In the medium term of the MF already last year, an increase in funding for MŠMT was ensured so that the programme could be started in 2021, we increased it last year. Currently, there is enough resources for the programme to ensure that the actions needed and prepared can immediately start funding and do not create high demands on unused expenditures up to the following years. The volume for the new Ring II programme at this time, as I said, is the subject of negotiations, but, above all, to make it clear that the money will be spent in those specific years as required and that it will not fall into unused claims. That's all we're talking about. And I also have a quick table here. I stress that the approved medium-term outlook is maintained for 2021 to 2023 and it is already ensured - and now we are talking about an increase - by 2021: 580 400 000, 2022: 849 million, 2023: 1,059 000 000 and so on. That means, it's already in the budget, it can start immediately, and actually we're talking about increasing the allocation. Of course, I know the problem. For one thing, I have been there several times, but I have also been in a number of other villages of the Central Bohemia Region, where I have been looking at schools that have been covered by these programs. I think that over the last few years, a great deal of work has been done on this, and it would be a shame not to continue, so we definitely want to continue it, it's important, education, schools, we're doing everything we can to do it and I believe that we're going to get all the budget involved and that we're just gonna make it through together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u145	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl will give another interview to Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Minister, my question is simple. The damage caused by the wolf is multiplied in the Czech Republic, the origin of which is often highly doubtful. However, as the number of wolves grows, the damage done by them also grows. The Ministry of the Environment and nature conservation authorities often do not respond to the need for a possible sniper wolf, as they seek arguments as to why not to do so. I am convinced that we should focus on prevention in this context and we should help those affected by this situation, and therefore I want to ask you whether the Ministry of Agriculture is counting on any support, or looking for a programme where sheep and goat farmers, affected by this situation, could better secure their herds, because the situation, as I say, is getting worse and worse. I wonder if you are planning to launch some support programme on this matter in the future, because, as you may or certainly know, we spend approximately CZK 1 billion per year on welfare support for cattle farmers and pig farmers. Therefore, this applies only to bovine and porcine farmers. I think that sheep and goat farmers would also deserve to have a program like this in place to help them with their enclosures, to help with their background so that they can possibly protect their flocks of sheep and goats. [[Time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u147	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. There is no minister present at this time. As head of the House, we will appeal for them to appear, if possible, in a more abundant number, but in any case, Mr Radek Koten will now present his intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I would like to ask you in this form, when you intend to open up the retail store, that is, the small shops where there is no danger now. So there was never any danger in the small shops, because the big shops were normally open. I would very much like to buy a shirt, shorts, socks, shoes, because during the time of the covid, which has been here for more than a year and take turns with emergency states and emergency states, so unfortunately also due to reduced movement in nature and the like, because the lockdowns forced us to be just a short distance from our residence, I don't even put my shirt on anymore, and you're actually here to stop me from going to the barber to get a pedicure to buy socks that are already serving. And that's how a lot of other people feel, because by just buying clothes for little kids, they obviously need it the most, because they're growing, but unfortunately thanks to the covid, adults have grown, but unfortunately to the width. So I would also appeal to the opening of sports facilities to open up a fitness centre so that people can finally do something with themselves and not put on a situation where they have nothing to wear and walk in some things that aren't physically theirs anymore. I look forward to hearing your answer when you're going to open up services and retail here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u149	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next will be Mr Vojtěch Munzar with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, 40 per cent of companies must return fully or partially support from the Antivirus programme. This is a very high number and unfortunately, information from last year is confirmed about high administrative error rate and therefore high Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[unintelligible]] Returning aid due to administrative errors denies the fundamental meaning of the programme, thus helping companies that have or have had limited or prohibited activities by government measures. Many companies have solved and solved existential problems and at the same time had no experience with administration of government programs. The error then happens easily, therefore there should be some tolerance and some remedy. On 6 October last year, you were asked by the subcommittee on the business environment to look for ways to avoid reducing compensatory support, so I want to ask you, what exactly did you do for this? For example, if you needed legal authorisation for an appeal and, for example, a similar option as the Minister of Finance has for a periodic penalty payment, what legislative action did you take to do so? On the one hand, you boast a lot of help at press conferences, but in fact, you take back support from two fifths of companies. I want to ask you how they're gonna take the money to get the money back, because for some, it might be the final dot behind their business. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u151	Thank you, the interview will be answered in writing. The next will be Mrs Dana Balcarová, who is not present and who is failing her intervention. Mrs Tereza Hyťhováťhová is also not present, her interpellation is also failing. Mr Petr Bendl, not present. Mrs Hyťhová is coming, but it's too late. Okay, I'll be tolerant. Mr. Petr Bendl isn't here. I haven't summoned him yet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u152	Thank you, dear absent Minister Havlíček. My question is very simple. I would like to ask you, and I think I am not alone, most or all of the Czech Republic is waiting for one single answer: What is your plan to open the economy? Does that mean when the restaurant opens? When will the services and shops open? People are waiting for that. They always read a sentence, a scrap of your conversation: Maybe we'll open up the service by the end of April, but it'll be conditional on mandatory tests. In my previous interview, I asked you what the tests would look like, where are they going to be tested? Will traders have them at their disposal, will traders have them at their disposal, will self-tests be allowed? Or is it just the certified companies and the tests? There's nowhere to read this. I would like to know whether the government and the Minister of Health, the Minister of Trade and Industry have a plan to relax. Previously, there was a PES system, which, although it's no longer going, it doesn't work long ago, but at least a table was created and we knew that the third, fourth, fifth grade meant that, and that. Is there no plan today, or is it, or is it getting ready? So my question is clear: when will the economy open? I don't think we can wait any longer because people are desperate, businessmen are desperate. I just read today that many traders are planning to open up in spite of the ban at the end of April. So I want to ask you, when is this gonna be open? What's the government's plan? Because without a plan, I don't think we can proceed. Thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u153	Thank you, the interview will also be answered in writing. Next in line is Mr. Petr Bendl. He is not present, his interpellation is failing and Mr Radek Koten will speak to him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u154	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear absent minister, I would like to ask you about the movement of children in primary schools - that is, some children are already going to school, but unfortunately, as far as mobility activities are concerned, we are in very bad shape. Those children who have been home for a year, unfortunately, the weight gain is quite noticeable. They only know the tablet, the phone, the TV, the games. Distance learning also does not add to this, and it is necessary to really adapt school activities to make children move again as they should. Another thing that I would like to know is why, for example, there are now no activities of interest, the rings that have been run in schools, and now, even though parents have prepaid them, it still doesn't work. I wanted to ask you one more thing. So when are the rest of the kids going back to school? Since there is extensive testing of young children, which must be tested twice a week, parents are also tested at work. Sometimes I get the feeling we could test ourselves here. All I can see is that there's a huge deal going on here with various tests and that Czech tests are not being bought. The Minister of Health told me that it is not a problem to sign up for the tender, but then it is not clear to me why it does not win the most cost-effective offer, and therefore why it will not win the best and simplest most reliable test. So thank you for your answers, and I'm wondering when the rest of the kids are coming to school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u155	Thank you. It shall also be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The last four interviews will be presented by Mrs Věra Kovářová. The first and second interpelations will be to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u156	Dear Minister, today I asked the Minister of Finance whether the CZK 6.8 billion for primary schools is valid by 2028 or not, whether or not this amount will be reduced to CZK 4 billion. I would also like to ask you whether you are planning to open a grant title this year to expand primary schools with a minimum investment of over CZK 50 million. The municipalities are also waiting for this information, and I think it would not be good given the situation as it is in the troubled regions, not to delay this opening, because once we put off this problem, the capacity will eventually not be, because it still takes a long time to build a new school. My second question is why the Ministry of Education will no longer open programmes for kindergarten schools, even in the context that I have already intersected you once, given that children's groups will only be up to three years old, and those children who have been in children's groups since they were three and six years old will have to go somewhere. The argument that this will be financed from the Ministry of Regional Development is not entirely good, because it may succeed in the next programming period, but it will be too late by the time the programmes are drawn up. Therefore, I ask you and ask if it is possible to reconsider the possibility of opening such a grant title at the Ministry of Education, and thank you in advance for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u157	Thank you and another interpellation to Minister Robert Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u158	Dear Minister, we are addressing you in relation to the testing of pupils in schools. We think that the majority of children's parents have been enthusiastically welcomed by the school's gradual return to school, but what is no longer so happy about most of them is the compulsory testing of these children, which does not take place once but twice a week. My parents ask me why employees can only test themselves once a week, while schoolchildren have to go through compulsory testing twice in the same time. [[17.10 hours]] It is understandable that the government is trying to prevent the spread of coronavirus so that open schools do not have to close again, but it would be good to explain the purpose of this measure to parents who, in a completely logical way, draw attention to the disproportion between pupil testing rules and employee testing rules. Therefore, as Minister of Education, I ask you whether this measure has any real basis and explanation for the differences between the operation of companies and the operation of schools. I think it has already been said several times today, some parents unfortunately cannot put their children in school or in the last year of kindergarten because, simply and well, these children will not - they will not - take the test through the brush in the nose, and there are not enough of them, and therefore I would advocate for a better solution or a variant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u159	Thank you. The next interview is for Secretary Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u160	Madam Secretary, we have discussed that you cannot come to the interview today and that you promised me that you would answer me in detail. So let me just mention what's going on in my interview and what I wanted to ask. These are, of course, funds from the European Union for the following period, i.e. from 2021 and 2027. In short, then. I would like to ask what condition these funds and their preparation are in, what form they will take and how these funds look for municipalities and cities, how municipalities and cities will be able to draw.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u161	Thank you. The last interview is for Mr. Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. [[Mrs Kovářová warns him that she is yet only a Member.]] Madame. I've been ahead of the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u162	Dear Minister, I appeal to you at the initiative of many parents of IZS employees who have contacted me in the last few days, and I think that not only me, but also other Members. For parents, clubs were set up as a form of day care for children, where they can place their children so that they do not have to stay home with them. Surely this is salvation and salvation for many parents, and they are grateful for this opportunity if, of course, it is only an option and not an obligation. Parents, but also parent couples, of whom at least one parent is an employee of the IRS, cannot choose whether to place their children in the club or to draw medical attention. For many of them, it would be much more enjoyable if they could stay home with the children. Some of them would like to take care of their children and not place them forced in quotation marks into a facility where children stay in a foreign group all day, in addition to the group of other children from whom they can potentially become infected with coronavirus. Isn't that why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, that you would also allow parents, one of whom is an employee of the IRS, to draw the infirmary, and places in the clubs would be free for children whose parents would appreciate it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u163	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u164	Mr President, honourable Members, I will, of course, have it checked. The problem with these exceptions is that the system is starting to get complicated, and then we're starting to get more and more impulses that it's messed up. So I'm trying after the experience of my already great, yet seven days from now so that we don't make unnecessary major exceptions. But I'm sure we'll check it out, look into it and let you know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u165	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u166	Thank you, Minister. I understand that being in office for a few days and immediately taking part in the interview, where they are of course aiming at you most, is not a simple role, which is why I will be grateful, and I understand that this is a specific example if you answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-002-527.u167	That concludes the oral questioning for today's day. I'm done with today's meeting. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. according to the approved program. Have a nice day, goodbye.
