ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u1	7. Proposal for the Building Act 1008/12/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this proposal was delivered as House press 1008/13. I welcome Senator Petr Vícha among us and ask before we begin the debate on the bill rejected by the Senate, that the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, should speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate to be rejected. Before I give you my word, Madam Secretary, I will ask the House for peace! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting again today on the construction law. I may surprise you, although of course you know the result from the Senate, but I would also like to thank the senators. It sounds paradoxical, of course, but the senát highlighted all the good things that the construction law brings. I know that we have already talked a lot about the construction law, that, of course, you all know the positives, whether it be simplifying the project documentation, leading only one procedure, and not a few such as today, removing the ping-pong between the prime authority and the appeal body, that is, introducing an appeal principle, strengthening the role of municipalities in territorial planning, strengthening the role of the municipality as such, because the municipality will always be involved in the proceedings, not only in the phase of territorial proceedings. We solve black buildings and, of course, implement the principles of digitization in cooperation across the House. As far as the fundamental contradiction, which is, of course, between us - or me as the Ministry of Regional Development - and the Senate, is the institutional form. However, this is the cornerstone of the state's compliance with the deadlines for citizens. There is really no way that a citizen can be sanctioned immediately if he doesn't do something against the state, and when the state doesn't meet the deadlines for a citizen, there's nothing going on at all. Of course, the Senate also communicated that it was essential for him to disengage the model of government and self-government, and he took it by taking authority from the municipalities. I would like to reassure again that the proposed institutional change is not really affected in any way by the powers of self-government, as it is currently not the exercise of self-government, but the exercise of government. I would also like to reassure everyone once again that there will be no hardening of building agencies from citizens. It will not only be possible to make the submission fully electronically from the comfort of home, but the draft law also contains clear criteria for determining regional construction offices, such as the number of inhabitants of the administrative district, the number of officials, the number of operations, and only one of the proposed criteria is sufficient. Believe that we were looking for a solution while maintaining the current structure. There were several Variant. We dealt with variations that if the municipality official fails to comply with the deadline, the municipality will receive the fine. On the other hand, of course, there was a great criticism of this, because the mayors rightly said that there must be a change of processes, because they are unable to follow the deadlines in the way those processes are set, and that given that it would indeed be a spillover from one pocket to another, this proposal was abandoned. We prepared a government proposal where we left the first-stage authorities in the municipalities, we dealt with it with measures against inactivity, and the state administration was actually a point of the level of the region. Unfortunately, this came to the negative position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Then we discussed the proposal of the opponents, Mr Kupka, Mr Bartoš, Výborný and others. However, Senate legislation also stated that they could not work with this proposal, because there was no amendment law and in fact this version was unnegotiable. [[16.30 hours]] As I said before, the Senate stated, as a reason for rejection, that it is unstoppable for him to withdraw the construction offices from the gestures of the municipalities. But what is absolutely essential for all of us, on which the public agrees, is, of course, that the State ensure that the deadlines for citizens are respected. I believe that we agree to keep the deadline. I will try to explain again on a specific example of how this is actually going on, and maybe I should like to inform you that the current situation has actually caught up with us, because the South Moravian Region or mayors or construction offices in municipalities such as Břeclav, Hodonín, are asking for an increase in construction officials to deal with the damage, but unfortunately, in the present system, it simply cannot be done. So we're inventing a couple of solutions. I honestly say that I'm scratching my right hand behind my left ear - not one of these designs is ideal, because of course it will be running for a long time. So I believe that we will really end up taking sides on the part of the citizens, on the part of keeping to the time limits, so that young people can guarantee that when they apply for a mortgage, they will actually have a building permit at the right time. In the construction law, we are introducing accelerated building procedures, which means the construction authorities will be able to issue building decisions under the first act. Again, I would like to remind you, because we are, of course, getting into these comments that public interests are protected. Believe that the Government's Legislative Council spent several days intensively on this, protecting public interests was an essential moment for the Government's Legislative Council, and judges of the Supreme Administrative Court were also present. The judges themselves said that the separation at the stage of the construction process is necessary for further action in the framework of building law, because they literally say that it is a clash of two universes, that really, as it is today, they also have nothing to do but judicate systemic bias. That systemic bias is gaining strength indicates that in 2020, we have been dealing with 66 systemic biases, and of course it is expanding. The last time he has a problem with the system bias of Prague on the subway section D. Like I said before, I'm just reminding you again what the problem is. [[He's showing the material.]] When you look at this picture, this is a picture of a particular region where you see that there are 48 construction offices in one region, 157 people working on these construction offices, and these 157 people can't help themselves. It's just separate islands, and when more projects are built up somewhere, one building office cannot be strengthened at the expense of the other. If you see: here one, one, two - if someone gets sick, the building office doesn't work, he writes the sign "for the disease closed" and basically the investor always has to wait. Again, I would like to ask you very much if we could forget all possible political strife. The construction process needs to be changed in the Czech Republic, the situation is unsustainable, and if the change is complete, then let's go into the change so that we can actually guarantee that even for more complex constructions - I am not talking about simple family houses - including appeals and reviews, the investor will know within a year whether he can build or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u3	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. Allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Jan Hamáček, Minister of the Interior, apologizes from 16 o'clock until the end of the day. I will therefore now ask Senator Petr Vícha to tell us about the Senate's deliberations and to justify the resolution. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, dear Members, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I must admit that I am sorry to be in the House, where everyone is looking forward, in particular, to the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, so that I must come up with such a negative matter and defend the Senate rejection. The Minister may have commended the senát, but she knows very well that there were more critical voices. First, a few technical matters. The Chamber of Deputies passed a draft building law and also a bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law on 4. 6th to the Senate. In the Senate he was assigned as a guarantee committee to the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport as well as to the Committee on Constitutional Law and Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment. The Act was also discussed by the Permanent Senate Commission for Rural Development. All these Senate bodies have recommended the Senate plenary quite unambiguously rejecting this proposal. The Senate discussed it 2. 7. and what has happened for a long time hasn't happened. The voices of all the senators present across the political spectrum have been accepted by a motion to reject this law. First, technically, I'm going to mention a few major points, and then I'm going to give them a divorce with your permission. Thus, all committees and commissions - I repeat this - which dealt with these laws, have proposed to the Senate plenary to reject them. The adoption of such a comprehensive amendment to the construction law should require the conformity of all public administration and self-government bodies, which will then apply it in practice. This agreement has absolutely not been reached, and this endangers the quality of future building procedures. There should also be political agreement on the adoption of such a major amendment in order to avoid rapid changes in the law and the destabilisation of qualified officials. I'll get to it later. The amendment was adopted in the final version in a completely different form from the original government proposal and substantial changes were made on the basis of complex amendments. The amendment goes completely against the spirit of the existing merged public administration model. By adopting this amendment, there would be a fatal distance from public administration, especially from people in the countryside, to the abolition of municipal construction offices, and thus further delaying the state administration, especially in low-populated areas with complex transport services. There would be restrictions on the knowledge of the territory to be decided by the authorities. Last but not least, the law also brings multibillion-dollar costs for the creation of the new Supreme Building Office. It must be said fairly here that the Senate plenary also heard the positives of the bill, particularly with regard to the introduction of the appeal principle, the duty of the superior body to decide on the matter, the digitalisation of the building agenda and the establishment of a specialised building office, which would allow strategic buildings. I think it's all the more unfortunate that there hasn't been an agreement on all the other matters, and the positives cannot stand out when a motion for rejection is made in general. So many summaries of the main reasons for rejection. You've dealt with this for quite a long time, you've discussed this here several times, yet allow me to elaborate on a few more comments from the Senate debate. I confess férově here: apart from being a senator, I am also the mayor of the city of Bohumín for 27 years, but I do not feel at all in conflict of interest. And I think that's how most mayors feel about it, and we're a little offended by the opinions that, in particular, mayors want to abuse the construction authorities for their purposes. I'll get to it. So even though various trainings have been taking place for many months now for the new building law - I also received an invitation today, so I believe I still have a chance to influence you in some way, so I would like to elaborate on a few points here. First, the legislative process. As the Minister said here, the proposal was a little unstandardized by the Chamber of Commerce. There were a lot of comments and then - at least I saw it this way - the Prime Minister's agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with the Association of Local Government, with the regions, and this was reflected in the government bill. There are a lot of articles at that time when the Minister says that it is not what she likes most, but that it is simply a compromise that has been accepted and this is how the agreement has been concluded. [[16.40 hours]] This is how it was put into the House and in There was then a comprehensive amendment to the House, and there were more complex proposals, and even one of them became the basis for another legislative process, there was a fundamental change, a breach of the agreement that had previously been concluded. And I think that's why the Union of Cities and Cities, that's why the municipalities and everyone else see it as in some way incorrect. Madam Secretary in the Senate said it wasn't her fault, it was an MP's proposal, but I think it's clear to all that she wouldn't have passed if the Prime Minister and Madam Secretary hadn't agreed. He changed his mind - all right. The process is perfectly legal, MEPs can make amendments, they can make complex amendments, but I note that it is somewhat non-standard. Let me remind you that a similar non-standard process was here in 2011. I am a memorial, so I remember, when such a comprehensive amendment resulted in a total change in the provision of social work, when it was transferred from the municipalities to the labour offices. That's when the proposal went through, it went through the Senate's veto again. And the consequences, I think we all know. It cost a state - and it still costs, we still haven't dealt with it, especially as far as the residential hotels are concerned - billions of crowns, then Deputy Minister Šiška may have cost freedom for a time, but in any case it was not a good case of how the legislative process should take place, and we are still dealing with it today. After all, even now, in the last days of the present amendment, concerning material distress, it also concerns this. Since the abolition of the district authorities, this is another step towards the reform of the public administration, because it is not just about the construction authorities. This also applies to other professional workers - watermakers, monumentists, workers dealing with greenery, nature conservation, transport. Yes, in many municipalities, full-time people do not deal with government, they do self-government work. That's more complicated, because if they're handsome and good, I'm afraid the mayors will largely want to keep them for professional work, and the State Building Office, which should be created, will be in a hell of a lot of trouble to get those workers. I am not talking about the premises because, even in the reform of the Labour Offices, the municipalities did not want the workers in their municipalities. No mayor wants to answer for the work of people he can't choose, and I'm afraid it will be the same with the State Building Office. I am not talking about issues of local knowledge, archives, territorial plans. The Minister says that it will save 6 000 officials even in the reform, so 6 000 officials less will do it faster, better, faster - no one can believe that unless they do nothing at all and after 30 days it became effective, the building permit. Now a few quotes from the press, which were made at some of today's press conferences. I'd like to comment on them, because that's what it's all about in the Senate. "They'll be circling the papers, not the people. Until 10 years ago, the decision was made by several parties, several dozen pages today. The investor must get several dozen stamps. We are at 157th place in the length of building authorisation, while the Czech Republic was 76th place 10 years ago. Instead of getting stamps, we will finally start building, shortening the length of the construction process to a year. Construction law has been amended twenty-six times since 2007, and where did we get to? We argue that only the professional civil engineering administration can ensure compliance with deadlines. Systemic bias paralyzes particularly large transport structures. The only thing the mayors will lose is an informal influence on officials, but it is against the law. There will be a simplification of the law." So many individual quotes, and I'm going to try to give them a very brief statement. Yes, 10 years ago, there were far fewer parties to the decision. Everyone has discovered Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V buttons at the offices, so they have more and more parties. and if they do not have the appropriate number of parties, the experience is that the appeal authorities also consider them negatively. The investor must get several dozen stamps. Of course, and he's going to have to keep getting them, because only when he makes a perfect request with all of his belongings will he start the process at the State Building Office. In the length of the permit constructions we were at 157th place, before we were at 76. And I will link it to the second quote: The law has been amended twenty-six times since 2007. Yes, twenty-six times the MMR has proposed to amend the law in order to simplify and accelerate the process of building proceedings. As a result, we got from 76th place to 157th place. Does anyone think that this step will finally make a turn and we'll go in the opposite direction? I don't think so. Systemic bias. Madam Secretary said there were 66 cases in that year. That's not a big number in tens of thousands of decisions, and I don't know how many of those cases have been decided that this isn't about systemic bias. But in 27 years, I haven't encountered systemic bias at the office. For me, it's like the morgue the world hasn't seen, from the fairy tale of the baton, out of the bag. Moreover, the House and the Senate, both chambers, agreed recently on an amendment to the Act on Administrative Procedure, and that is what we were dealing with. It was a proposal from the Pardubice Region. So it hasn't even been tried in practice yet, and we are already saying that systemic bias is the main reason why we want to deal with this issue, and it is precisely for large state investments that will remain that way. This will allow the State Building Office to invest in the state - so we can also say that it is systemic bias. Now to the mayors. Of course, I cannot rule out that there may be a failure in individual cases, but who has the greatest confidence in the moment, the hand on the heart for the Senate and for the House and for all the other institutions who today have the greatest trust in citizens? They're municipal authorities, they're mayors. They are under the scrutiny of citizens, and I think they want to have influence, they want the construction process to take place quickly, effectively, so that citizens, businesses, entrepreneurs can build. I think the biggest concern we all have is that the newly conceived model will disrupt it. In the end, the State Building Authority may manage to get into life in some way, but especially at this time, the Povovids, when we will need it to be built to invest, so that the municipalities invest the saved billions that could not be invested in covidu, we are afraid that at this time there will be a threat. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe it was a waste of speech, maybe you're already determined how you're going to vote. You're nodding to me that you're determined. Yet for my quiet conscience, I had to say it here. And I wish you a cool head and success in your decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u5	I thank Senator Petr Vích for his performance. President of the SPD Radim Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a procedural vote in order for us to act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms and to vote both after 19 and after 21 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u7	Okay, thank you. I will allow this to be voted on without debate, but I have to do it because I have asked that discussions on another subject be held in the foyer. So I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your voting cards, and on the proposal that we vote on this law in terms of both the 19th and the 21st hours, we will vote in the vote number one hundred and forty-seven, which... [[Messenger. Montenegro informs the President outside the microphone that it has not been said which two clubs propose this.]] I understand your objection, but I wanted to take advantage of the time they met, ask the President for whom he proposed it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u8	I propose this for two parliamentary clubs - both the SPD MP and the ANO MP club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u9	Yes, so we have a fine proposal under the Rules of Procedure. I think those who want to vote on this proposal are present. I've started the 147 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 147, out of 135 present for 94, versus 33. The motion was accepted. I now see Mr Kubíček with the procedural proposal he has made. Please calm the House! You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this is a third reading and everything has already been said, but given the number of entries I see, I would like to propose restrictions on negotiations and speeches for each Member for twice 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u11	Okay. About the proposal... Vice-President Pikal applied first. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u12	Thank you. So it seems disproportionate to me and also disproportionate to the fact that we have just extended the time, so there is no reason to shorten the duration of the negotiations, because, as I understand, we have extended the negotiations until eight o'clock, there is no rush. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] So I'd take the liberty of counterproposal, twice 30 minutes, and if it doesn't work, twice 15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u13	Okay. President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My point was in the same spirit. You've been through the meeting day over 19 and 21, which means you can act and vote until tomorrow morning. [[Notes from the diaper.]] Ambassador, let's not shout at each other! [[Again, Mr Hajek's loud remarks.]] Let's not shout at each other!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u15	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u16	For this reason, I do not see it as entirely meaningful to limit discussion. We have six applicants here, but I'm convinced that the law will just be discussed today. The point is, by limiting the debate, that you are pushing us back into a corner, with the opposition tending to defend itself and possibly taking breaks, which we do not want. We were ready to have a debate, and by extending today's meeting day, we just know that you want to discuss it, we respect it, so let us, as opposition, apply the options we have. And we are aware that it is a priority for you to bring the day to an end to discuss the law. So at this point, I'm asking you to consider withdrawing this proposal, because otherwise, at that point, we're going to have to adapt the strategy from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u17	I have to put these proposals to a vote. Please take your seats, and I'll leave the proposals individually to limit speaking time... A colleague of Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u18	Thank you. In that case, I'd like you to at least... I'll give you a longer time - twice 45 or twice 30 to consider not cutting off the debate altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u19	Twice 30 minutes is served. Twice 45, okay. Now, first, the vote of two times 45. We will decide to limit speaking time for speakers without those - I have two priority rights with club opinions, namely my colleague Bartoš and colleague Kupka, who will speak for the ODS with the club's position, or they are without limitations, and the others would be in the vote number 148 twice 45 minutes. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 148, from 153 in favour of 48 in respect of 2. The motion was not accepted. Now the second proposal: twice 30 minutes. This was suggested by both colleague Bartošek and colleague Pikal. We're going to vote 149. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 149, from 155 in favour of 111, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we can continue. I have admitted to discussing these procedural proposals, but before I start the debate, I ask whether the rapporteur of the guarantee economic committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, wants to express himself before the debate? He's not interested. The rapporteur of the Public Administration Committee, Ivan Bartoš? He's not interested. Mr Marek Benda, rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee? He's not interested. I can therefore open the debate and the first is signed by President Ivan Bartoš with priority rights with the opinion of the MP, i.e. a double priority right. Martin Kupka will then be prepared with priority rights with ODS opinion. I'll give you my word in a minute, Mr. Chairman, when it's quiet. If there's anything else you want to discuss, it's in the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly with the opinion of the Pirates Club, the starosta, but also with a relatively large group of Members and experts who have actually tried in this election period if something changes in the construction law, and the will has been on all sides here in order to be coordinated in order to deal with the comments of relevant participants in the whole process, in particular the municipalities, the regions, as well as representatives of conservationists and others. I must say that I was rather surprised by the Minister's speech and, on the contrary, I think that the Senator has highlighted very well the fundamental problems of this legislation. I would - although the comparison with Orwell is a bit of an offer: the Senate will reject the original government matter with all its votes, the proposal initially put forward by the government, and the Minister will thank the Senate for having substantive comments. Well, either the Senate, like many others, thinks that the law is nonsense, or we can argue that it had material comments about it, and they like the law, in fact, in addition to what is most critical of the law. He can't pay both at once. [[17,00 hours]] I would just like to recall the way of this law when the first proposal was made by the Ministry or prepared for the Ministry by the Chamber of Commerce, so much, even colleagues from the government, especially from social democracy, the Ministry of the Interior, were literally appalled by the huge ambition to move officials, move the agenda, withdraw decisions in the building procedure under one office. There was also a big analysis of what it might mean, that it may not - not only will it not speed up the construction process, but the whole transformation can even stop it, and then the secretary in some kind of gremia regime started the debate, because it is a big legislation, started the debate with the opposition, started the debate with the authorities, and so for about two years the ministry dragged us a little bit, because we participated in the negotiations, we made important proposals. Then she was the option, when the Ministry decided to comply with everyone, the law became more and more dissipating, and at that moment the forces were put together just on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in the group for digitization and new building law and we prepared a very hard work option that did not anticipate the creation of the building office, but went the Finnish way, where the digitization is the basis of which you enforce the deadlines, so you simply check them and you have the opportunity to get them online. We wanted to go this way, which is orderly lower at those costs, can build on what we already have, on a law that deals with digital technical maps, which are once again adopted by the parliamentary initiative and ultimately, in cooperation with the government, we have approved in this parliamentary term. What a surprise it was then when the original government proposal rejected by a number of bodies and experts appeared as a parliamentary amendment, as a comprehensive amendment here, through Mr President, the present Mr Kolovratník. Another paradox was that the Public Administration Committee, which always deals with this legislation concerning the construction procedure, was suspended by the House vote for only a committee that could discuss it, but was no longer a committee of guarantee. At that moment it was clear that there was already a majority voting with the SPD, with the communists and others, and the fate of the law, regardless of the reservations, regardless of the unfinished comments, the complexity, the financial complexity, and the risks, the House will pass. And at that moment, we're here today, and the previous readings of this proposal in the House were also pretty wild. An emergency meeting was convened at a time of emergency when the law pushed itself into an emergency meeting with the first reading. Indeed, it is not a standard thing where such important legislation changes, which at some stage of life has an impact on almost every citizen, whether he is building a smaller thing or perhaps planning to build a family home, or if there is a need for a smaller builder. I would just like to remind you which were the fundamental reservations and when we could read the letters here. There is a petition against this building law, where there are signed people and representatives of the authorities. We will not do this, but that this law is aimed at the chamber, too many people, apart from the Minister, perhaps other members of the Government and the Chamber of Commerce, these people do not really think so. We believe that the super office is not the solution. When I was talking here last time, and I was talking about what step it was to set up the National Sports Agency, then Mr. Hnilička here in the hallway mingled me that everything was crystal clear there, that it worked superbly. I had every desire to go to him at least for a while afterwards, when it became clear how the office was managed, how the intentions were evaluated, I didn't do it. I just want to remind you that the process of centralization, where I have a problem somewhere, and just that I'm gonna throw it under one roof, that the fact that someone, one person or the chief of office, has it under control, that it doesn't even have the benefits that we're talking about. Now that we've been in covid, and we've found out how much better things are handled in subsidiarity, when a decentralised system works, where you're really close to the problem you're dealing with, when you can actually have people you can train in the long run. And now here we are going back to some model of central control, this one super office that basically oversees everything. This has been said many times in these discussions, and the Minister has actually mentioned the number of officials. For me, it is quite crucial information that existing employees of the construction offices in the delegated administration, about 60 per cent of them, if I am not mistaken, replied that they would not go into the regime of the Supreme State Administration under the State. [[construction]] Now, if we're saying that there's a shortage of civil servants working on the building process, then where are we going to find the compensation, unless the law actually brings simplification to the administration, does it count on moving those officials? If the information is changing and it's a lower number, I'd like to hear what the first number was calculated from. And there's a whole bunch of other problems. I think my following speakers here will talk about them, although the House has now blocked their ability to express themselves more widely about the more complex problems. We believe that if something is solved by the speed of the building process, it is the use of modern technology, it is a factual simplification, it is the fulfillment of this motto, which everyone keeps saying and using in campaigns that people should not circulate authorities, authorities should circulate data. And this isn't a password that applies to people. This is a password that must also apply to officials that you do not move anywhere, that you will really be free from the fact that there is some normal or virtual stamp where you simply once submit documentation to the system, which is stored there, everyone looks at it, makes reservations about it, eventually get a consolidated opinion in terms that you watch, and goes on. The proposal we prepared with KDU-ČSL Members, ODS, TOP 09 and STAN, with other experts, lawyers, had those qualities, so the Ministry at least accepted it paperically, looked at it, said it was not a solution, and pushed the original, costly, inefficient, and I think that at the time of the covid and post-covid transformation a relatively risky version, because if the money we have to invest effectively into the Czech Republic from national sources as well as from European funds is to flow to the Czech Republic in a relatively short period of time, it will also be about construction. These will be things that need to be interfered with in the building process, and if we get to the moment we're here in some process of transformation, the implications of this law could be a very fundamental problem. I would therefore ask the Minister if this law is passed today, and as we have already seen the SPD initiatives, and probably with the support of the Communists, because the Minister has dealt with them and they have been a little angry with them the last time we have discussed the law, so if this law is approved, please do not run at this critical time, with a tight budget, with a huge deficit, any costly transformation actions. This has already been heard from colleagues and from the democratic opposition. It's going to be one... We also want to look at these schools, the teaching staff, if the government drops this important standard, but also the construction law and the processes that the government is going to start now and which do not lead to the desired goal, it will be one of the first things where, if we are able to participate in the next government, we will try to reverse this process and take the modern Nordic route of elegant, simple building procedure based on digitalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u21	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka will now speak for the ODS, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, honourable colleagues, several quotes from the newspaper headlines of the first week of July: "The government debacle, not a single senator voted for the building bill, were also opposed by members of YES and ČSSD." Another headline: "The new building law is a double-cross and belongs in the garbage bin, said the senators, they want the Members to reject it. It's the work of the devil, the senators tore up building law 65:0." The last of the quoted headlines: "Debakl Minister Dostálová, the Senate unanimously rejected the construction law." The Senate has thus joined a number of key institutions within the Czech Republic in the framework of public administration, governance, institutions that say on a government proposal, as amended by a group of Members around Mr Kolovratník, say "no" - Association of Local Authorities, Association of Towns and Municipalities, Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, Association for Rural Reconstruction, and now also the Senate. And the Senate doesn't say it with a ratio of 45 to the rest, it says it with a unanimous vote of 65-0. It's not normal, it's not normal, it's the results, and it's the voices that just don't evaluate and act like they didn't happen. That doesn't make any sense. After all, all the steps taken in the past in a similar way have led to clear problems or necessary changes after the elections. It is necessary for the Czech Republic to throw itself into an unsuccessful experiment, when a number of key institutions - it is not just that they are the authorities that express themselves about what is happening in the Czech Republic, but they are to a large extent based on the way in which the construction law is currently being implemented. And notabene, they will be officials who are now in cities and on the outskirts, who would make the same decisions in the future in the framework of the construction proceedings. There is no one else who can complete the entire army of more than 13,000 officials of the new mega-construction office, yet there is no one in that country who is qualified and able to make decisions. So once again I appeal to common sense and to a simple critical consideration. When all the key institutions say it's bullshit, it's probably bullshit. And it would be really desirable in this regard that the government should listen to these key partners in the territory, because, of course, there were specific factual comments and proposals. After all, this is not just an opposition rejection for rejection. Here are concrete proposals to do this so that it doesn't mean future problems, meaningless spending at a time when the state will turn every crown. Moreover, so that other and other civil servants do not come under the regime of the wrong Civil Service Act. I'm going back to that 65-0 ratio. When the Senate voted last January on the amendment to the survey law, when it was precisely the subject of negotiations to digitize the building process, and the consensus on this solution, the austerity, elegant, civilised solution, was across the political spectrum here in the House, Madam Secretary, could you guess what the ratio of the votes was? Exactly reversed, 65 senators voted in favour, and no one opposed it. That was a real match. This is a solution that has been passed through a professional opponent, which even from the point of view of the Ministry itself had a head and a heel and can be realized. Even here, of course, there is a need to add good to the Ministry, the Ministry is already working on it, and this is a solution that shows the way forward, including that it will not simply mean dramatic extra spending and reform, which has not actually been discussed here. We didn't discuss leaving the mixed model of public administration, we only discussed the construction law, and the fact that the amendment to the construction law means the disruption of the current mixed model of public administration is clear, but this is not how the government coalition has built it and never told the regions, cities and municipalities - we end up with a mixed model of public administration, we are entering a new experiment, it will be different. I think it would be a very brave step, because, as has been said here, if we were to map who on the Czech political scene is enjoying greater confidence on the public administration map in the Czech Republic, they are still representatives of the local sphere, mayors, mayors and people who are in immediate contact with those who are building something, who are doing business and carrying out their activities. I will go back to what would actually be a threat, what we warn and warn about, not on the basis of some abstract models, but on the basis of real experience, based on the response of people from individual authorities. We even have a relatively detailed survey of when the Association of Local Authorities and the relevant trade union organization of civil servants asked a total of 1274 respondents, they were employees of construction offices, existing construction offices, whether they would transfer to the new mega-construction office. Only 40 percent said they'd pass. The Minister responded: We will overpay the others, offer them interesting conditions. Well, that's gonna cost a lot of money. And the second thing is that, of course, the mayor's response is clearly: we on the high-quality officials that we lack, because there is still a shortage of quality people in the country, those who would be well oriented in the whole construction legislation, because it is not just a construction law, so there is just little. We will offer them an interesting position such as investment technicians, managers in the investment unions of the relevant city authorities and city authorities. That's an area response. What's that supposed to mean? It could mean that the mega-construction office isn't going to be filled. And if it doesn't come true, he won't issue building permits because there's no one there to do it. That's a perfectly real concern. And I don't want to discuss in detail what it means technically, what it means to find the premises, to create leases between the state and the individual authorities, or the city authorities. And if that's not an option, when does the Ministry need to build or hire new premises elsewhere? What about the car park? What about the computer network? As it will be with a whole range of specific things that the construction office cannot do without, because providing services in the field of construction proceedings, official services, that does not just mean sitting behind a desk with lottery sleeves, it also means going out for housewarming, being in the field, and without that no good building office can do. No good building office can do without seeing the situation in a particular place. The centralization brought by the government proposal, as amended by Mr Kolovratník and a group of Members, is turning the current activity, the current direction in the area of public administration towards people, in exactly the opposite direction. And if we could bet on the quality of a whole series of decisions, even because the officials knew very well the territorial plans in their places, that they knew the local situation and could prevent a number of problems, the new building law would resign. He says local knowledge doesn't really interest us. But this cannot be done when we deal with the constructions that stand in specific places. That local knowledge is a very important piece of equipment, and it's hard to think about, and there's no way to replace it well enough. Of course, even without this construction law, we will have digitized construction proceedings, and that is very good, because there we are able to simplify a number of things, to relieve people, really achieve that they will circulate documents, not people, both on the part of applicants and on the side of officials. [[17.20 hours]] What we could see here, and we showed it very carefully, to make it clear what the Construction Man's Portal means, the key thing from the perspective of another construction management organisation. This means, among other things, that, in the case of each of the institutions concerned, each of the officials concerned, time will run out for his observations. The response from the states where they have it was clear. Just record the time, record the deadline, that one sees the other, that there is a check here that doesn't necessarily need to be from above, but which is collegial across when it is possible to really monitor who looked at the document, who looked at the relevant documentation, who opened it, and how long it takes him to express himself, this is exactly the tool for achieving the acceleration of the building management. It's not a theoretical reflection, it's a response from real states, from countries where it works. And that's what we're gonna do without building law. This key, this solution was agreed by the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum, in the Senate, this solution found the support of 65 senators, and no one opposed it. The new building bill of the Ministry of Regional Development, from the government's pen and Mr Kolovratník's colleague, has exactly the opposite balance - 65 senators against and no one has been for across the political spectrum, including representatives of the ANO and ČSSD movement, i.e. government parties. Well, that's alarming! This just has to be the subject you answer, Madam Secretary. I still want to focus on what it means to delay the authorities, what it will all bring. Where is the confidence that when a central mega-building office is created, it will work better than smaller authorities, which are logically under greater public control? Where is there evidence that government offices at central level work better? I have an interesting example. I have no doubt that everyone in this hall has a Prague circuit, a Prague road circuit for construction number one. That's what all government officials say, that's what the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Local Development say, that's what everyone says. Now imagine what exactly happened. The municipal office in Uhříněvsi decided on the construction of 511, Prague Circuit last July. The decision was challenged through systemic bias and the Ministry of Regional Development, i.e. the key body at the level of the state administration, was to decide on systemic bias, a legal period of 30 days. Do you know how much it worked out for that great ministry? How long has it been decided what to do with systemic bias in the case of a matter that has a clear priority for the government, a clear priority for all political parties? There was a final zoning decision in July, and then it was four months at the Ministry of Regional Development. I can't understand it. So what we're going to do is instead of speeding up, we're going to be dealing with this kind of delay at the central level? That in the case of the decision on systemic bias, i.e. who would continue to discuss it - in the end, the ministry did not decide whether the territorial decision was good or bad, the central administration's authority, a picture of the mega-construction office, decided for four months that it would not hand it over to either the magistrate or the Central Bohemia Regional Authority, but that it would send it to the regional office in southern Bohemia. And this decision on the key construction took that central office four months. It left the Ministry of Regional Development in January. A specific example that hits the eye. And we hear that now that it's all going to be transferred to the mega-construction office, the days will be pink, all watered up by the sun, the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic will run like a treadmill. I say - what if I don't? What if it turns out that the emergence of a new office will not bring anything better, but it will show what is described in every large office in the long run - that it has a natural tendency to lock itself in, that it has a natural tendency to harden itself before the world, that it has an extraordinary fondness for creating various internal circulars, directives, regulations, papers and second papers. And instead of working modernly in the concept of flexible public administration that's close to people, we're going to have another Kafkův castle that's going to deal with what it's going to look like with the fleet, how many cars they're going to get, how many computers they're going to have, what directives they're going to make. The secretary here was terrified that, in the case of one-headed building agencies - and even here, there was quite a big consensus that one-headed construction agencies were really anachronism, and this needs to be changed over time - so that there is a need to put up a sign "for the disease closed" in a situation where something happens. Well, I haven't seen such a sign in truth, but I'd be much more concerned that if it came to the construction office, the mega-construction office, and the new form of the construction law, as the government prepared it with modifications, not one office, but there will be a huge sign "for the wrong construction law closed until further notice" all over the Republic. Is that what we want? Everywhere it sounds like we're supposed to invest from the current crisis. But that means having a functional building process, really allowing construction, and at the moment when it threatens - and draws attention to it even across the political spectrum, senators across the political spectrum point out that this risk is quite visible, clear and indisputable - so the government coalition supported by the SPD is going to meet this risk, full steam forward, despite all rational voices and despite concrete factual comments. I do not want to repeat all the arguments raised in previous negotiations on the construction law. We have presented them and repeated them, we have come up with an alternative that would be cheaper, safer, more modern for the Czech Republic in the sense that they are betting on quality officials who are now in cities and municipalities and on the outskirts. It does not create a revolution whose ends no one is able to see exactly beyond the risks, but it is able to organise the functioning of the construction offices effectively, and even following the model of offices where building permits run within legal periods, even shorter than expected to shift expected shortening. As a result, the one-year deadline that was mentioned here could mean an extension for a number of the authorities and the negotiations at those offices. I really wouldn't want that. That is why, together with our colleagues, we have embarked on a path of inspiration for specific positive cases of a number of authorities, where they have simply managed to gather the individual officials, to put them together so that if a request for a building permit comes, so that they can work with it, and they need nothing but the good will of the secretary of the competent authority. We set out to determine the basic rules of the law, and it was a solution that was obvious and would solve a number of serious problems. On a number of occasions, we were able to agree with the government's proposal, support it and what we came up with ourselves. The key thing - the emergence of a mega-building office - probably killed this activity because the love of a government coalition for a mega-building office and centralization outweighed common sense so far. I firmly hope that, on the basis of other opinions, other factual arguments, the Senate's response that those who have considered voting in the case of the Senate's vomit will reconsider what they have heard and who has also argued and brought an alternative. When we look at the Senate, of course, the biggest word in the debate about the law was that of people who, in turn, have a particular experience with the construction authorities and with the organization of construction activities on the part of investors, which is also an irreplaceable matter. [[17.30 hours]] I firmly hope that even on the basis of today's debate, you will return to the factual reasons that have been raised here, and you will reconsider that position, because here is a really unique situation where key partners in the territories say: No, this is not the way to do it, it is a risky thing that will ultimately oppose interest in further construction development in the Czech Republic. And that's a common interest. Again, I appeal, let's not be haunted by the fact that somewhere in a small building office, there are signs "for the disease closed." In fact, something much more serious is threatening that there will be a sign hanging at the new mega-construction office "we do not issue building permits until further notice, we do not have people." Thank you very much for your attention and very much please carefully review all the arguments that have been raised during today's debate and during previous negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u23	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes for working reasons today from 17 to 18 o'clock. It is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will speak with priority law with the opinion of the STAN MEP, who will perform with priority rights for the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senator, Madam Secretary, allow me, too, to present the opinion of our Membership Club of Mayors and Independents. In the introduction, I would like to mention one thing. If you lose 0:6 in tennis, it's short and it's good to say you're going to get a "canary," and it's evidence that you weren't well prepared and that you're in bad shape. And this imaginary "canary" was given to this amendment of the construction law, namely in the Senate, in the ratio of 0: 65. The senators clearly expressed their position, and they also said clearly that what is irreparable cannot be corrected. Senator Vícha also mentioned a number of reasons why the senators did so. Unfortunately, during the discussion and legislative process, the government, or the Ministry of Regional Development, did not respond to our criticism and enforced this law in the House so-called force with the help of the votes of the ANO, SPD, ČSSD, and, as it looks, today and with the help of the Communists. Why are we rejecting this law? We fundamentally disagree with the creation of a central super-megabuilding office because it is centralization and it is a step backwards. Of course, we do not agree that the 400 building offices will be abolished, which means that the service from the citizens will be abandoned. And that's definitely a step back too. At the same time, we have no idea which construction offices will be involved. This will be decided by the Supreme Building Authority. Officials from the current construction offices should move to the new central office and under the Civil Service Act, which is surprising, because, as we have noted, the Prime Minister has made a significant criticism of the Civil Service Act. If the Minister had spoken during the hearing that this law would have reduced the number of officials, we would have understood it, but the fact that 13 000 officials would be moving, probably most of them to new buildings that we do not yet know which ones they will be, so that is also one of the reasons why we cannot support this law. As has been said many times before, the willingness of the officials of the original building offices to go to the new building office is a circus of 40%. It has also been said here - I will repeat it so that you know: a large number of officials will remain in another position with their employer, and a large part of them will end or find another job. I'm really curious to see if we can find those missing qualified and experienced officials somewhere, they're definitely gonna miss them. I'm asking where we'll be looking for them on the market if such qualified and experienced officials aren't there. It follows that there will be an overload of new officials and that there will certainly not be a shortening of the construction procedure, as has been announced. Last but not least, the issue of the cost of this change discussed so much. The maximum costs are estimated at up to CZK 24 billion, which is certainly an irresponsible step at a time when we expect extraordinary state budget deficits, when we have the highest state budget deficit. Less than two weeks ago, I met with some STAN senators and we discussed the construction law with them. We were debating a law that is just its mark by law. But I dare to say here the words of a poet: "What roses invite, even called otherwise, would smell the same." It is a poetic way of saying that this hot needle-sewn mixer from the Ministry of Regional Development workshop, wrapped in breadcrumbs with various amendments - it may be both good and bad, but it is simply a tangle of everything - it will remain a law inconvenient for us, no matter what we call it. I must say that the Senate's rejection of this bill of construction proposal is a victory for us, Pyrrhův. It is clear that the Czech Republic needs a new construction law. 157 is a nice number, but not when it indicates our position in the difficulty of obtaining a building permit. The process of building proceedings must undoubtedly be accelerated, simplified and digitised to meet the needs and available technologies of the 21st century. However, by interfering with the construction offices and by transferring powers from the authorities to the state, we will not achieve this objective. On the contrary, we will only achieve the paralysis of building procedures for long years and the distance of public power from citizens, and this is just one of the many adverse consequences that the approval of the new building law, as presented here, would bring for the citizens, for the millions of citizens it concerns. Few people come into contact with the construction office at all. For all others, the construction law is a standard of fundamental importance. Although it is such an important law that is potentially affecting each of us in its entirety, there is no wider political consensus on its wording. It is hard to reconcile with the form of the law - and now I have to quote from the e-mail I received - "as a suffocated legislative premature, whom the Ministry of Regional Development is trying to keep his teeth alive, even at the cost of reckless compromises on his quality." [[17.40 hours]] I must say that it is sad what has been said here from the Minister's mouth at the last hearing. Minister Dostálová said that this law has a social consensus. So I have to ask whether the Minister's social consensus means that the Ministry of Regional Development or the Chamber of Commerce agrees with this law. Because other players on the construction law market, such as cities, municipalities and regions, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Towns and Municipalities, the Association for Rural Reconstruction, the Association of Regions and other professional organisations, are fundamentally opposed. And not just them. I would very much like the Minister to accept a petition from me. A petition was already received from the Association of Local Authorities in June 2019 and it was a petition against the abolition of construction offices, the petition of officials against the abolition of construction offices within the jurisdiction of municipalities and the petition of municipalities and cities against the abolition of construction offices within the jurisdiction of municipalities. These petitions were signed by 5,370 officials, representatives of municipalities and cities, and another 187 joined. At present, Madam Secretary, I would like to submit to you a petition from the Association of Local Authorities for the preservation of construction offices within the jurisdiction of municipalities. If you don't mind, Madam Secretary? [[The secretary isn't paying attention and she's not responding.]] I'm talking to you. Yes, I would like to submit to you, Madam Secretary, a petition for the preservation of the construction offices, signed by more than 1,300 citizens, and I would like you to read the comments of those who signed the petition and added them. I certainly hope he doesn't convince you, but at least you'll change your mind that the decision you're making in the new construction law isn't exactly the right direction. So please, if I may. [[He's giving the petition to the secretary.]] So much for the mayor's and independent club. For us, we say that we cannot support a law that does not have a social consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u25	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka, now with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Through you, I would just like to ask Mrs Kovářová for one thing so that she does not solve the proportions of the various premature babies from the point of view of the construction law, because it affects me very emotionally, because leave the dying babies somewhere other than the building law. The asphyxiation of prematures does not really belong to the discussion of the building law, it is a very inappropriate analogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Kovářová will also respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u28	Dear Member, I apologize if it has offended you in any way. However, when people complain that the construction process does not last a year, but two years and three years, you may understand the reasons for these considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u29	Thank you. Mr Juchelka will also respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u30	Unfortunately, I can never get used to it if we compare the dying babies to a building law. I'm very sorry, but it's an inappropriate analogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u31	Thank you. And now, Mr Marek the Výborný will perform. It acts with an opinion on behalf of KDU-ČSL, i.e. with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u32	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, absent government, colleagues, I would like to present here the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP. [[The government bench is completely empty]] At the beginning I will not surprise anyone with a clear statement that even the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club is not prepared to support this form of the new construction law, which we really consider to be a pasquil, which will effectively endanger the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic. We've been saying this position over the long term. We can't change the mark or the dot on it, because the history of the legislative process itself, as the entire construction law arose, was just wrong. I think this is intersecting from the words of the senator to whom I thank, I think he described very structurally here the key problems that are contained in the new construction law. In fact, the debate sometimes shrinks a little bit only on the issue of the fatal collapse of a mixed model of public administration. But I think even the secretary knows that it's far from the only problem she's trying to blame and explain that it's going to be better. Unfortunately, it's not gonna get better, it's gonna get worse, but there's a whole bunch of other problems I'm gonna get to. However, history. In the beginning, we were all in the same boat. The Ministry, the Government and my Members, I think that even from the opposition parties, we really wanted to do something about the miserable balance of 157th place in the world, I said it here repeatedly during the negotiation of the construction law in the first, second and third readings. Yes, the Ministry, the Government, Madam Secretary is right, of course. It is necessary to accelerate, simplify, be transparent and be close to the citizen, but all of these attributes of the new building law, which we all advocate, which we all want, so what has been created completely denies or does not - either deny or does not bring. The beginnings of the work on the new construction law in my opinion and in the opinion of KDU-ČSL and the coalition of SPOLU were completely wrong. The Ministry, which has an ensemble of legislators, will have a proposal such a fundamental, key standard written outside the Ministry's apparatus, outside the government's apparatus as such, de facto custom-made by the Chamber of Commerce. Of course, there is already, logically, a huge risk that only the interests of certain groups involved in the creation of such a standard will be preferred here. You don't have to have any experience for that, and you don't have to be some kind of legislation. It's just the way it usually is, Madam Secretary. I think that, for you too, the nightmare will be memories of the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government on this original proposal, which has repeatedly ripped this version apart and de facto hindered further negotiations at government level as such. Then there was a hybrid proposal, but I'm convinced, and of course, it's some kind of conjecture that you yourself saw at that moment that it's just a game in the House, and that's something that bothers me. I think even politics needs to be done honestly and decently. And at the moment that you decided to play with us, with the legislators, this game, when you yourself knew well that when the version came up that imaginary stamp, that imaginary stumped the Legislative Council of the Government and the Government as such, where the original version was, of course, absolutely dramatic reservations of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment, your colleagues from the government, your colleagues from the ANO movement, so that in some way you did it, so that in the House then there would be a complete revolution, to return, because nothing else the MP's proposal by colleague Kolovratník, who was nothing but a quasi-governmental amendment from the workshop of the Ministry of Regional Development, was anything else, of course. [[17.50 hours]] I do not consider this honest, this legislative loophole, this legislative handiwork which, in my opinion, could not contribute to anything positive. And we saw the result here at third reading: 86 amendments, maybe I am wrong, but there were over 80 only in the House press 1008. You yourself had no idea in that three-hour or two-hour vote that the proposals went through, which didn't go through, what they really meant. And here I come to the fact that it is not only a matter of complete collapse of the public administration model, but that there are then things that have hit you a little bit, but I fear that only for a while, the coalition of the construction law, when surprisingly for you at the last moment, the communists have sucked up and you have only voted in third reading with 92 votes because there have been approved amendments that fundamentally change the terms of the definition of living rooms. But let us also recall other suggestions that have been made regarding, for example, mobileheims. There is a risk that there will really be a unique zone with these residential facilities, which now allows the construction law to be built in principle without permission. And your arguments: This will fix my decree, I already have it written, or we will write it, prepare it, so I consider it an odd one. After all, we all know that a sub-law can hardly change the norm legally, that is clear. I think you heard it in the Senate attic. I'm sure the senator would confirm that. Next thing you know, the public bathrooms. I am terrified of how our communities and our cities will look when placing public toilets with an area of up to 50 square meters. So I think that if this starts to be fulfilled on the basis of the construction law you have passed, then please God with the quality of life, or with the environment of our communities and cities, for which it can often mean absolutely fatal consequences, and the mayor will do absolutely nothing about it! Mayors of municipalities and cities can stand on their heads, but they can't do anything about it! And this way, we could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. I believe that these are exactly the reasons that led to the fact that you really turned out to be peasants in the Senate at Chlumec. I apologize for the words, Madam Secretary, it is rather bizarre here in the first sentence to say that you want to thank the senators for their good comments. Whoever followed the Senate's actions could actually write down statements that could be quoted by the senators. These were not comments, it was a completely overwhelming criticism. And let's see, find some standard that ended 65-0 in the Senate. Neither the Senators of the ANO movement nor the Senators of the ČSSD for your form of building law found even under the fingernails of understanding. Neither of them could support her. Your colleague from the ANO movement, Mr. Senator Větrovský, has prepared an absolutely overwhelming intelligence report. If you want to appear here at this moment and your coalition of the building law, it is a rolling coalition of the building law, it is necessary to say it completely to the plain, the movement YES, the SPD and the KSČM plus some other social democrats, or the non-attached Members - yes, that is the rolling coalition of the building law, associated with of course with other interests of the various lobbyist and developer groups - it is necessary to say it absolutely to be straight - and at this moment with this group you are trying to show the power that you, if you get 101 votes here in the House, can have, but I consider it a very dangerous direction to the future, because what is at risk - and I want to stress this and this is what my colleagues have said before me, Mr Martin Kupka, Chairman of the Pirate Party, Ivan Bartoš and Mr Senator and others - here is actually the step that we have to create a mega-office, mega-building office, so in fact can lead to exactly the opposite objective, than you are not to the fact, but you are saying - that the fact, that the fact, that the fact, that Ivan Barto the fact, that the construction management of the contrary, that the other than that you are coming. The construction procedure may collapse completely for a few months, perhaps for a few years, because when we were just doing some little research, but rather a fundamental question among today's construction officials, who will want to go under public service, under the Civil Service Act - by the way it is 13,000 jobs, I think it is the Ministry of Regional Development - I have not yet heard the Prime Minister's reply, if he even knows what it means, because he, a great critic of the Civil Service Act and any new administrative posts, will be signed under this. If Andrej Babiš is voting for the new building bill today, that means he's actually voting for 13,000 new civil servants. But the problem is that only 40 percent of today's construction officials said: Yes, we are ready to serve under the Minister, or under the Supreme Building Authority, so that you may not catch me at the word. What does that really mean? Well, the 60 percent, maybe they'll change their minds 15 or 20 percent of them, but that's still not enough. And here the situation can get dramatically worse for the next few years. Unfortunately, this is a very deterrent example that we have experienced. I don't think that's what citizens, builders, investors really deserve right now. And the second thing you're saying is that - and that's right - a civil servant is supposed to be close to a citizen, and I have to say, of course, I can't say now if it was 60, maybe 65 percent of the proposals and what the law contains in your proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development workshop, we certainly don't. For example, the construction worker's portal, the digitization of the entire construction process - yes, these are steps that will lead to the desired goal. However, I have never seen a situation where you bring a citizen closer to a service by creating a mega-office that, on the contrary, will be far removed from the citizen himself. It just can't work, it's a contradiction, it's completely illogical. On the contrary, we should go by the way that the construction authorities, effectively functioning through the digitized construction process, through compliance with deadlines - that is the problem, if all the authorities and today's construction agencies kept up with the deadlines, it was really enforced, so it could all work. I think that as opposition to us, and now I dare say that the opposition of both the two blocks, both Pirstan and the coalition of the SPOL, can no one argue that we have been here for two years merely flatly criticizing. We have come up with a clear comprehensive amendment. You played a little cat-and-mouse game with us, if I say so, because the Ministry of Regional Development urged us: Yes, come with a proposal, we will judge it, we will work together, we will certainly come to a common conclusion. We conducted X meetings at the level of individual political parties and so on, but the result was clear in advance. It was really just a game, and at the end, like a bulldozer, you pushed your own form as it was lobbied and arranged in advance. I do not consider this to be reasonable and happy, and it really can lead to what I say, which means the collapse of the entire construction process in the Czech Republic. If, Madam Secretary, you are really ready today, you seem to have agreed, agreed here, I do not know how, on the basis of which promises of the civil society coalition for the construction law, so I would like to ask you very much, because you in office will probably not only be here until October 9th, but perhaps even a few weeks or months after the elections themselves, so that the government, in turn the Ministry of Regional Development, does not take any irreversible steps based on this on the power of the enforced building law, because it could also be wasted public funds, public finances. [[18.00 hours]] And I think that, even on the basis of the Senate discussions, and on the basis of the opinions of all the relevant institutions concerned - and I will just repeat, the Union of Cities and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions, and this way we could continue and on, these are the ones that are directly affected, the senators, the Senate as a whole - we simply believe that it is not possible to take these reservations lightly and, if necessary, today to force pushed through, or sometime in the coming days, to accept it. I think that if we really want to achieve the goals that we have paradoxically in common in the future, so that we need to go back to that, and it would be very, very appropriate for the current government to treat it this way, and not that it will start to create a really expensive, huge, mega-construction office that really doesn't really help anything. So much to describe the situation, the state and the reason why KDU-ČSL cannot support this form of construction law. We have really listened very carefully to the actors of the entire construction process, we have communicated with them, we have prepared a number of amendments. By the way, when we are like this... I will now look away from the combined model of public administration, but when I look at, for example, the fundamental thing, such as the protection of private ownership, when we have opposed the amendment here to the possibility of expropriating in general in the public interest - because of course the public interest is very widely defined, we both know this - neither in this fundamental matter, which, in our view, concerns fundamental rights and freedoms, simply respect for private ownership, so even in this case your ministry, your government has not given a positive opinion on this minor but important amendment that we have tabled under the coalition of the Co-operation or also the Co-operation with STAN. And this proposal also failed. So, of course, these are such pieces into a mosaic that I have tried to describe and to justify why a positive opinion cannot really be, and I, as I have been very intensively communicating in recent weeks and months with representatives of builders, with representatives of cities and municipalities, so I must say that they are all truly appalled that this form of construction law should be the basis of the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and I believe that there are many mayors sitting here as well as the ranks of the government coalition, the captains are here, that they know this issue very well from their offices, they have discussed it within many different associations and that at this moment they will also give priority to the interests of the authorities, which they also represent, and they will consider their position on this form of building law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u33	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Výborný here speaks 'government is presenting'. But, colleague, this is no longer a government proposal, what we're discussing here is not a government proposal. You must have noticed that social democracy at third reading, a number of social democracy MEPs did not vote for it. And if you're saying that there are a number of mayors or former mayors, active mayors, you're right, yes, I'm not going to vote for that either, because the consequences are very obvious. We keep saying we need to bring the state administration closer to the citizen, but this is delaying the state administration. Take it, it's basically a cancellation of the financial authorities, you remember, system 2 plus 2. I also fought against it then, unfortunately unsuccessfully, then as chairman of the Committee on Budgets. It kind of works, but who do people come to complain that they have to do 30, 50 kilometers, that they don't take care of everything? They're complaining to the mayor again. And while on the other hand, I have gained experience that even with the 2+2 system, financial officials are really trying to be helpful to the people, but you will not do everything on the spot during the time available within the 2+2 framework. The cadastral authorities or the cadastral authorities were canceled. It really seems to me that this is a sort of creepy cutting down of the mixed model that we have, and that's wrong, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u35	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you very much for your help, Mr Votav. You described it exactly, I can sign for it. But maybe I could just correct the word "sneaking." It's not creepy. That's totally public, open. It's really destruction, it's the destruction of a mixed model of public administration, something that's worked here since the 19th century. I'm not saying that it has to work here forever and ever, but in this way - in the way that the Ministry of Regional Development has decided to, in order to be precise, not possibly the government as a whole - tear down, it really is the danger you're talking about. And I would only be grateful if all Members of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club had a similar opinion, because then maybe we could stop this whole experiment here, the destruction experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u37	Thank you. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes today from 19:00 to midnight for work reasons. Mr. Vít Rakušan's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u38	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, still, through you, to Mr. Votav. I totally agree with you as the former mayor. It's nonsense what we're doing here. It's a matter taken by construction workers who will be far from dealing with their entire construction agenda, but please don't say one sentence. Look at the light board - the government bill. This is a government bill, and the government coalition simply bears the responsibility. The fact that you do not have a single opinion in the government coalition, the fact that all Members will not vote in favour, does not make the proposal anything other than a government bill. That the government itself can find voices elsewhere, the one with the SPD, often with the communists and all that, it's another thing, but it's a government bill. The responsibility of this government, which is also a part of social democracy, and you will all be responsible for what the construction process in the Czech Republic will look like. Don't drag the opposition into this. We had our own comprehensive amendment, we identify with the Senate's view, which clearly said it was a pasquil that would not help anything in the Czech Republic, perhaps several developers. But let's not try to say it's not a government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u39	Thank you. Mrs Dana Balcarová is enrolled in the debate, Mr Adamec will be prepared. I would remind you that, on the basis of the resolution of the House of Deputies' decision, the time for Members to speak is 30 minutes, and there may be a maximum of two. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me start by pointing out the main risks I see in the submitted government amendment. These are risks, in particular, that the main objective of why this government amendment was actually created will not be met, and that it will not accelerate or simplify the construction process. Nor will the enforcement of time limits improve, because it did not come into the law. Moreover, the law will introduce a new double-track state administration. Some building procedures will be decided by experts integrated into the building office, others will not. There will be a strengthening of bureaucracy, which should certainly not have been the aim of this amendment. At the same time, increasing centralization is increasing and strengthening the corruption opportunity, and there I see great risks. What bothers me most as chairman of the Committee on the Environment is that this building bill directly threatens the environment, our nature. Building interests over protection not only of particularly valuable natural areas, but also of agricultural land, forests and greenery in cities. Although the definition of green infrastructure has been introduced into the law, in many other areas, the law is adverse to the challenges associated with climate change, such as the conservation of even the most valuable agricultural land will be decided by the building office. The Government's proposal reduces the protection of agricultural land by conferring, for areas up to one hectare, the power to remove land from the agricultural soil fund without further consideration, which will be decided by the construction authorities. That seems very dangerous to me. Building authorities will also decide on trees that are protected by the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, i.e. trees that are grown, which are vital and are therefore subject to special protection. It will also decide on the protection of water or on the rendering of territory. What bothers me is not taking part in the construction proceedings or weakening it, to be more precise. The public concerned by the construction projects will have even less opportunity to comment on them in time. More disputes will eventually end up in court. If some of you here want it, they will surely be satisfied and happy to extend the construction process even longer, because by not being able to express themselves directly as an administrative party, but having the opportunity to appeal to the court, in those cases where they will perceive the risk of environmental damage and the quality of their lives for being so serious as to bring it to the court, they will submit it, which did not have to happen at all before, because the public comments were settled as part of the process of building proceedings. The amendment limits the participation of the public and associations and reduces the rights of the public, for example by very short periods of time for expression where public expression is allowed at all. I would say that the construction law is extensive, complex and full of shortcomings. It makes it impossible to adapt the amendment in the form of amendments in a short time, so it is irreparable. For me, the government's proposal is completely inappropriate and aggravates the current situation. Not only is it important for the Pirate Party to protect the quality of life of the environment in which we live in the city, but also to speed up and simplify the construction process. So I have said such crucial points, my fundamental reservations about the construction law, and now I would emphasise even more the public's participation, which is very problematic, and I think it may also be a reason that the building law will be dropped by the court. In 2017, the amendment to the Construction Act was passed, excluding civil societies from proceedings under the Construction Act. Even then, participation was weakened, and that means that people can't participate in what their surroundings look like. I know you maybe have bad experience with public participation. I have to say for myself that during the last parliamentary term I was a representative in Prague 9, I was a member of the Committee on Territorial Development and Construction and I know that it is really not easy to do a public hearing, a public hearing of some construction development projects. Just dealing with the public can be problematic. On the other hand, the problematic points can be clarified and the project can also be shifted in a direction that citizens will welcome more, and eventually the builder will make a profit on it, because the construction process will be shorter and the construction will be more welcome for people, and this can, of course, be reflected in how the construction works in the city. To say some figures, the associations participated in only 2.77% of the territorial proceedings initiated in 2019 - 2.77% is really very few. The appeal was lodged only in less than 0,5 (%) of cases. This means that the associations are very few to appeal if they have the opportunity to participate in the legitimate administrative proceedings where they are participants. I also note that the associations are composed of citizens who live in the region, who have a direct interest in the quality of their lives and who mind when they build a large hall near their homes, which causes traffic jams in their surroundings and at the same time emissions to the air, at the same time their quality of life significantly reduces noise, so it is clear that in administrative management they then require some modifications to the project - perhaps it may be that they are driving into the building from another side, where it is not in collision with perhaps a residential zone. I think it is very desirable and legitimate for people to apply this in administrative proceedings. I was going to say that the case had been brought before by the associations in 0.025 percent of all territorial proceedings, which is very negligible, but if this new construction law applies, the percentage will rise significantly, because they will have no other way of commenting on what I said, such as the fact that the construction is not so designed to be friendly to them. We should probably think about the fact that civil associations implement the right to a favourable environment, which is in the catalogue of fundamental human rights with the guarantee of constitutional value. It's not just anything. It is guaranteed by the Constitution that we have the right to take an interest in our environment and participate in the decision-making process. At the same time, public involvement in the decision-making processes of public authorities is enshrined in Articles 6 and 8 of the Aarhus Convention. Public participation contributes to greater transparency in decision-making, higher quality of the resulting decisions and easier acceptance of decisions in the community affected by the construction. I said it a while ago that there are no lawsuits that really last for years. That's probably all I'd say about public participation. And then I would just briefly mention that, in some way, the construction law should have responded to the current great challenge that we all face, and that is the progressive manifestations of climate change. We all perceive this - either it is dry or hot and in the city or in the village it can be very bad for us to live when summer heat is, or when the rains are torrential, and all of this should be managed by the city, it should be able to adapt to it, and that means that support for the blue-green infrastructure, which, although in the government's design of the construction law is eventually anchored, is not defined in any way and is not regulated by the standard. And I think that's a great shame, because to this day networks, such as power grids or plumbing and plumbing, have priority over green infrastructure, which is, for example, a tree line, or they have priority over water elements. And today, from cities where adaptation to climate change is serious, we know that this blue-green infrastructure is at the level of those technical networks and there is always balancing and finding solutions so that all networks can coexist together and that the trees and greenery aren't always what they have to retreat. [[18.20 hours]] I would probably quit if I only have a moment - I have - so I would like to quote a few stakeholders who are active in protecting the environment and the climate. I would like to quote Professor Damohorský from the Faculty of Law and the Czech Society for Environmental Law, who says: "The main problem of the newly proposed Czech building law is too unilateral a focus on promoting economic growth and the maximum speed up of all proceedings, and this unfortunately goes rather drastically not only against the social and environmental interests, but also strongly interferes with the protection of the rights of citizens, associations, municipalities, but also many, especially smaller business entities or landowners." That is what I think is an opinion that we can take seriously, because Professor Damohorskýý is really a capacity in environmental law. Another short quote is from Martin Skalský of Arnika, who says: "The construction significantly affects how cities and landscapes will be able to cope with extreme weather fluctuations. The new building law facilitates the development of free land at the expense of green and water areas," says Martin Skalský from Arnika. "And without them, life in cities and villages will be absolutely unbearable." I think we all have some responsibilities here not only for the present, but also for the future of young people who just want them to live in cities as well as they do for us today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u41	Thank you and with a factual remark, Mr Stanislav Grospič will first respond and then another one signed up with a factual remark, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I did not want to enter into a discussion with a comprehensive discussion and I just wanted to say that the law is unacceptable to me, and I think it is not in the Czech Republic's interest to adopt it, not its citizens, nor its environment. On the one hand, it takes what the municipalities base on, that is, small construction offices, and subjugates them to one central building office. In fact, nothing will change, these people will continue to sit in the municipalities, except that they will not call themselves municipal officials, but they will belong to the civil service, and it will complicate the relationship between the municipalities, these officials and the citizens. Nothing's gonna get better for a citizen, but it's gonna get worse. The second serious moment that has been said here by my previous speaker, which I would underline, is the question of the environment. The law is extremely extensive. It is only intended to build faster, to stop the territory, but at least to ensure that today agricultural arable land the size of one football field is disappearing almost daily, and does not concern itself with the protection of the agricultural soil fund, meadow, forests, water resources and unilaterally prefers construction. After I would also point out to the law that it too banalizes technical standards and some constructions, such as small constructions of family houses and other buildings, it is too much for a territorial decision and the building decisions are passing away as such, and in terms of natural disasters that the Czech Republic has now been through, we know very well how it is necessary for each construction project to be assessed very well by the responsible building office and to have its quality and to ensure security for its inhabitants. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u43	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil withdraws his comment. Mr Ivan Adamec is next with his speech in the general debate, Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, my remaining colleagues, my fellow Members, have spoken to the construction law once before. I thought it was enough, but now I've come to the conclusion that maybe we need to repeat some ideas, ideas, so that we all realize what we're going to vote on. By the way, when I saw the theater around how we're going to discuss the debate of this bill that has been returned to us by the Senate, I came to the conclusion that the 100 is probably gathered, because the audience here is very few, and that it is actually necessary to limit us in the debate and, if necessary, drag it through so that today the hundred is realized. I'd like to be wrong, but I think it is. But it doesn't matter, it just happens, there's always a majority somewhere that decides how it's gonna go. When I listened to the secretary today, I said, it was a speech, like she came back from the Senate victorious, like it was just so cool. I haven't heard such an assertive expression in a long time! Thank you to the senators and senators for sending me away! I've never seen this before, I really haven't! And here I've been hearing about it all along, let's argue, let's make a deal, but it's gonna be our way, so what's the deal? [[From the diaper: Most.]] Yeah, but it's not a deal, so let's not say it. Let's just say we approve majority, and we don't give a damn about you, opposition! But I'd like to warn you. This isn't a law that's gonna pay for a while, or it's gonna pay for a while. This is a law that will apply for a long time, and if this - and I do not call it pasquila or anything else - is simply a bill - if this bill comes into force, then we will all have problems with it. And if anybody thinks they're gonna go through with the 100th today that they're not gonna go back to it after the election, they're gonna! And maybe faster than they think. I think what went through here in the three readings, the result is pretty rusty, I have to say. Those amendments amused me very much if it weren't such a serious matter. And the Senát. You know, I've been a senator for six years. I've had an atmosphere in the Senate, and I know how the Senate works, but I've ever felt that it would be 65-0, so I've never experienced that before, never in my entire career, what I spent there for six years. I have to say, it bothers me that the bill is prolobbist or almost lobbyist. And the lobby is clear from the big developers who just want to build at any cost. I wouldn't mind if it didn't interfere with the structure of the public administration. You know, we ran into the Economic Committee when we were talking to a colleague, and he says, "I want to separate the state administration from the administration." I said, okay, great, but that's 15 years after. So let's be honest with each other. - I'd like it if it was quiet. - Let's be honest with each other. Let's just say, let's separate the government from the government, but with everything! So let the state take the environment, the matrices, let the state officials marry instead of the mayors, calmly. Let him take all the activities we do for the state for a fraction of the contribution from the state where we put our own costs into it. [[Calls in plenary.]] I've got plenty of time. 26 more minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that we can hear the arguments of each of the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u46	This is an honest discussion! This is an honest discussion to say that once our governments also separated part of the social sphere from self-government. Those results are ruthless what we're going to say to each other. It's just wrong, it was wrong, and it was a memento, kind of a warning that we shouldn't do it. And we're just saying it here because the big central office, the mantra, just overshadowed everything. And I have to say, it bothers me that the Chamber of Commerce and the various associations of businessmen have joined it in a similar way. I don't think they understand at all that the problem is buried somewhere else, and it's not that cities wouldn't be able to do it, entrusted cities, and I don't think anybody did an analysis to tell each other serious errors in the current system, and I just don't think it can be done. [[18.30 hours]] I have to say, I've had a few amendments to the building bill approved here. By the way, it's the same people doing it all the time, the same officials, that's what you have to say, nobody else does. Now, take it now that every time we hear how bright tomorrows are going to be in construction, and you know how it all turned out every time? Well, worse than before. Remember what you were here in the last parliamentary term: 300 amendments. It was fame that you improved the building bill. Well, I don't even want to say what: nothing. Nothing happened. It happened that the construction process had significantly extended. This is where I hear the discussion about deadlines. Well, I'd like to see the state meet deadlines in a number of cases. Find out - you'll be surprised at the state's deadlines and when you compare it with self-government. But what I want to say is another thing: it has to be said that no one here has mentioned that the deadlines are directly proportional to the number of stamps that the builder has to obtain in order to obtain a building permit. And that didn't come up. I don't even think some of those stamps might have been there in this proposal. It's just about the courage. Unlike my colleague Balcarová, I think that the issue she was talking about means the participation of various environmental associations, so it is necessary to define precisely. This is different, it is the interest of citizens living in that city and the interest of associations that are needed from Brno and engaged in Trutnov. That doesn't make sense in the construction process. Maybe she does, but I don't see her there. Why did the Senate stand up like this? Of course, I cannot speak for individual senators, but I think it is due to the fact that the senators are closer to public administration, to municipalities, to regions, and they understand the problem that it cannot be dealt with that way. It just won't! I think every centralization brings an increase in bureaucracy, whether we want it or not. Every centralization is remote with a citizen, it's just given in the concept of centralization. And if anyone thinks that the state is some kind of super executive, that it's more efficient than the public administration, then let them think that, but I don't think so at all. I just don't think that from experience. So to sum it up, because I'm not here to obsess: I think building law is such a specific standard that not even the citizens who are looking at it, maybe they don't understand what we're saying here. They're interested in how many years they get this stamp and building permit and they're going to build it, and mostly it's once in a lifetime. As far as developers are concerned, it's very clear there. But when the 100-year-old gets here tonight and clap your hands, you vote in favour, then remember when the building bill amendment comes back in a few months -- and she comes back here, and it doesn't matter who's gonna rule -- and remember my words that we shouldn't have said that today. And otherwise, such a personal remark of mine. When I look at the building bill and the way it was designed and who was involved in it, I wouldn't call it the building law. I'd call it the property development law. It will serve them very well, especially those of Prague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u47	Now he will be given the floor, I wish you a nice evening, Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Jan Kolovratník will be prepared. [[That's right: Martin Koloverstvík.]] Ambassador, please take your word for it, your first 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u48	Colleagues and colleagues, I really believe that senators and senators are right. There is a very bad law ahead of us, and the attempt by the Minister to turn the rejection of the Senate on commendation is quite an original procedure. Unfortunately, the proposed law will not speed up the construction process, the problematic buildings will move to the court, but until it again reaches into it, or until parts or the whole are abolished by the court, there will unfortunately be unsightly damage to the natural and cultural heritage and there will be many scars on the faces of cities and municipalities. There are probably 101 Members here, because the Communists are working, but this is a big mistake that our country will pay very much for. And it won't be too abstract. There are about forty of us here, but it should really be watched by all those who own some property, land, house, whatever they own, because it will be very relevant to them and it can be very late when what has actually been approved here will be dealt with. [[Interesting]] It is a standard that really touches the neighborhood of hundreds of thousands of people and unfortunately only fulfills what we are sure, it will damage nature, damage cultural heritage, damage neighbourly relations and overwhelm our judicial system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u49	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Martin Kolovratník. So please, your 30 minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u50	Good evening, thank you for your word and for 30 minutes, which I won't use from a quarter. I, colleagues, will lighten up a little at the beginning of my speech, and I will try to break at least a little bit of the series of negative speeches and the critics that we have heard in the last few minutes of the construction law, and I will respond to you, the speakers, from the position of co-author or one of the authors of the complex amendment, that is, the wording in which the building law here in the House was finally voted and returned from the Senate. The first reaction will be - I tried to listen carefully to your debate - on the Senator when he justified the positions that came from the Senate or the arguments that we heard in the Senate. Here's where I want to answer the quote. I would like to borrow yesterday's public statement by Advocate Pavel Černý from Frank Bold, an organization that is cooperating or founded the State Reconstruction, to all of us well known anti-corruption movements. So let me quote. It is clear against the Senate's arguments that the rejection of the senators of the new system of building offices, which would not be the authorities of municipalities and regions, but the state, so there were arguments that it was a separation of building offices from citizens, at the same time an attack on local authorities, that the decision-making of municipalities is brutally limited and so on. It is understandable that such a major reform, perhaps almost at the level of reform or amendment to the Civil Code, also provokes dissenting reactions. Indeed, the arguments we have heard here from the Senate are either based on misunderstood proposal or on a long-term misconception of the role of self-government. And once again, I would like to patiently remind you that these municipalities can see these authorities as some kind of tool to promote their own interests or strengthen their own position, but it is not in the law today, nor should it be. Self-government can promote its interests - and should - primarily through territorial planning. Here I will point out, I myself was the author of the amendment just to strengthen the role of self-government in independent planning, and unfortunately it was not accepted in the House. This, too, is a reality that I consider to be a compromise, with which I agree, of course. And here I want to remind you, as co-author, that the person who really was in all those paragraphs, that at some moments the building law, the new one, the self-government does not limit, and even strengthens and helps them more. I will remind you once again that the task, as it is set, of course, of the construction offices should be in the boundaries set by the law's territorial plans, so that, in short, impartially and objectively, the admissibility or inadmissibility of any construction project is assessed, technically speaking. Nothing more, nothing less. At such a stage, the municipalities are indeed one of the parties to the proceedings. That is such a quick response to fellow senators, to President Bartoš, and I think Martin Kupka, and Marek the Výborný, here again, repeated in this debate and returned to their proposal, to the path that colleagues, and certainly worthy of the compliment and appreciation, have done away with their opposition role. [[18.40 hours]] So again, I kept - the author was also Pavel Černý - to give the proposal of a lawyer, an expert of the administrative order, a person who is moving in the area of transparency, the functionality of the public administration, and actually the explanation why, colleagues of the opposition, your proposal would be problematic - it is not as Mr Bartoš said that the MMR just read it and threw it away and did not want to work with it - but again there were arguments, clear facts why it is not possible, why it would not be problematic. Very quickly: the first, absolutely essential, negative aspect of your proposal is that it is maintaining the model of construction offices in both stages, with the exception of reserved buildings as municipal and regional authorities. There was no clear definition of how the idea of integrating decision-making in building authorisation would be made. There would be some dualism between the licensing of reserved buildings, there would be majority integration, and the other buildings where there would be majority non-integration. So we have actually seen some problematic moments here, where unfortunately we simply could not agree with the proposal. And so on and so forth, I don't want to delay and read the whole analysis. And I'll be at the end of my show. I believe that the proposal that we have prepared with fellow Members, and as it has been discussed here in the House, is simply a good thing that it will help, and I recognise that it has some flies and shortcomings, that it simply could not satisfy all of them. The Minister was also criticized in one speech today and the Ministry criticized that he was trying to accommodate everyone. It just can't be done, it's not possible to satisfy everyone in a reform this big. And even for myself, when I think of the third reading, the amendment, the very greater transparency of the work of those officials, the publicly led work journal, the already mentioned individual scope of territorial planning, more material law, we had a number of proposals, both better, more to define material law and green infrastructure, so the House did not accept it, it did not get enough votes. So even I could say that I'm actually not happy and that it could have been much better. But it is simply a compromise political, the maximum possible that we could achieve here. And at the very end, I'm going to try to answer three criticisms, probably from my point of view, the most fundamental one I've heard here in the debate, the criticism, I'm going to try to explain them. A great deal has been and is criticized by the potential distance from people, the fact that the exercise of building law, the authorities, that people, citizens, municipalities will withdraw. That is not true, colleagues and colleagues. Firstly, if you looked into the law, directly in one of the last paragraphs is precisely defined in the decree, on the basis of which criteria the territorial workplaces in the regions will be established in the area, based on the number of people of the municipality, on the number of operations, the size of the municipality and so on. And even if some of them are gone, and we say correctly that there won't be such a number of them, so I'm going to remind you again, and that's how we need to look at it, the whole system, all of these processes will be digitized, they'll be done in a completely different, new way. That's the builder's portal we're talking about, all over the Internet, electronically, remotely. I'm sure we can agree with our opponents on that. And then let's agree that it doesn't really matter whether, in the case of any simpler, light construction for a normal citizen, I don't give a damn if I'm filing a request as far away from me as the clerk or the clerk is sitting, whether it's in my town, in my village, whether it's somewhere in the county town or theoretically on the other side of the republic. This is probably a hypothetical example, I can go back to the beautiful illustration problem that the Minister was pointing out today or on which he illustrated the problem in South Moravia, the mutual representativeness. So let us at least acknowledge and agree that if we are all saying here that we want a small state, that we want the least of the authorities, least of the agenda, from the opposition we are criticized, the government is criticized, as the state is still swell and large, that is exactly the way we are going in the novel, we are describing precisely the digitization there, and the second effect is that in some cases it simply doesn't matter whether or not this small construction office is going to end or not, because there is simply no need. Then in some critical materials, I suspect it was the Association of Local Authorities, read criticism of how it would be pro-corruption, how the office would issue its own decrees and no one would check them. I'm going to answer that question by asking why so much corruption law, and the question is ironic, why so much corruption law supports the reconstruction of the state, Bold Bold, and other anti-corruption organizations are in favour, and they understand the system. And perhaps Mrs Balcarová's final answer and all of you who have the heart of protecting public interests, the environment, ecology. I am not pretending that these debates have been difficult and that sometimes we may have had too ambitious ideas, not just me, but colleagues from the ODS, Mr Bauer and others, where we put amendments to simplify building processes not in territorial parks, but in protection zones, in the margins of territorial parks. We've retreated from all this, we haven't put anything like that in there, it's not in the building bill. And here I want to say and appeal publicly, and I believe that if he were questioned, my words will confirm when we had the last big session, I looked it up, it was 30 March, actually before the second reading, when we were with the internal work team, with my fellow Members, with representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and attention, together with representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, tuned some of the amendments, so in conclusion, it was a long, super-heavy, about eight-hour negotiations, late in the evening when we were breaking up, so by hand I asked Deputy Minister František Mana of the Ministry of Environment, who is in charge of legislation - and some colleagues from the ODS like this name very much... What I want to say. The Deputy Minister said to me by handing me and looking in the eye: Public interests in this form are sufficiently defended and are not at risk. So that's my answer to the fear that we have from Arnika, the Green Circles and others today. So much summary. You know, the international - I don't know if the World Bank recommended that if we want to speed up this process without the negative effects on protected public interests, they really - they told us - go the way of integrating processes, and that's what the amendment for which we're going to be asking for your support today, what we're building it on. An independent, unified system will be created, the special construction offices will be abolished, the jungle, as we sometimes call them, will unite all procedures. Of course we'll digitize, that's what I'm talking about. Apelace, Madam Secretary has mentioned this many times. And I just feel that this is an impulse for Czech construction, because the economy at a time like this... I say again, it is not a crazy revolution that - if we are successful today and approved - will start happening here tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it is planned in two stages, from next year it should be gradually planned, staffed, managerially occupied, equipped. As I said, I admit that there are a lot of shortcomings to improve, for it will be a year and a half in any future lineup, yet - I apologize for the word - do some fine tuning, some fine debugging, so to the 1. 7. 2023 could have all worked out. I have marked such a nice sentence at the end: It is up to all of you - either we want to enter the 21st century with a great ambition to help all, small builders, big builders and also municipalities, cities and our economy, we want to be digital and modern, or we want to stay in that analog 20th century and go over the place. Make up your own mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u51	Your performance has brought down quite a lot of applications for factual remarks, so I will read the order: First will be Mr Ivan Adamec, second will be Marek Výborný, third will be Mikuláš Ferjenčík, fourth will be Jan Čižinský, fifth will be Ondřej Benešík. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u52	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, well, that shows exactly how we are not listening here. What Mr Kolovratník demonstrated, as "we want to argue with you, but it will be in our opinion, and that is the most correct option" - exactly. To quote the opinions of the lawyers here alone, even from the State Renovation - I said that this name should not be held here at all on the House floor. Let someone see what this organization is, how it's controlled, how it's paid. Don't bother me with this again! And I have to say one thing: you're the right MP, loyal to your movement and the Minister, I understand that, but you were acting the same way last time we passed the amendment to the Construction Act, where there were 300 amendments and the construction proceedings extended for a few months, so remember that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u53	Mr Marek Výborný will now appear and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u54	Thank you for the floor. By your means, to Mr Kolovratník. Well, it seems to me like a fairy tale who's gonna start telling us how pink everything is and how all the proposals that the opposition has brought were actually excellent and how the secretary took it all into account. Well, fart took no account of anything. It all went to the trash. So please don't use this nonsense here. And I have to stand up for all the mayors, because I have an impression here, Mr President, that the mayors are in charge of building proceedings in the municipalities today, so you did not understand the difference between the individual and the transferred scope. Of course, everyone knows that. So, in some way, they're kind of subliminally suggesting that they're the mayors, the corrupters in the towns and towns that are out there in the process of building today, it's really not fair. It really isn't fair! And unfortunately, your performance is in the intensities of what we're used to here in this whole era of construction law negotiation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u55	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to a colleague of Kolovratník, who says how he seeks a small state, while defending a law which the state is a forcefully inflating, because officials who used to be officials of self-government are under the state, under the service law. So you're doing the exact opposite of what you're talking about. Instead of having a small state and functional self-government, you're doing a bigger state and less decentralization, the exact opposite of what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u57	Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear and prepare Ondřej Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u58	There's a lot of people enchanting around here. The Government Legislative Council, which has just stopped defending itself, will marry the Supreme Administrative Court judge, who was not in any way entrusted with the Supreme Administrative Court, will be taken by a non-profit organization, which I think does not even know that it will be framed here over this version of its name, and so on. Building management is conflict management of the nature of the matter and it is a matter of trust. And now for the real objections that were raised here. Let's say which institution has which trust. The conflict in building management is best moderated by someone who has that higher trust. And we're actually handing over this management account that's conflicting, or you want to transfer it to a central system that's going to have a very low trust. If they are - and at the moment they are - mayor moderators of the conflict, and if they have people's trust, the construction process ends faster and ends better than elsewhere. And now it's supposed to be torn out of these communities - and it was very right here that the mayors have the highest confidence - and put them in the central system. He'll have zero trust. And that's why I keep repeating and still no one here trusts me, or no one, but few people here believe it's all going to happen in court, because few people will believe that far away has made the right decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u59	Mr Ondřej Benešík will now speak and Mr Jan Birke has yet to comment on the facts. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if the law is good and good, which clearly isn't, it's pasculi, it's coming at the least convenient time. We are beginning a new planning European Union, where we have over 500 billion crowns, a large part of them for investments, for hard projects. [[period]] We have a special stock money of 180 billion, a large part of it again for investments in hard projects. Those hard projects are gonna need building permits, and fast, 'cause the money's limited in time. We have to pump them out by the age of seven, and the covids are even up to two to three. If we reform these construction agencies now, what happens? They start dealing with themselves, they start moving archives, offices, they start arguing with cities, with the communities where they currently reside, and we're gonna waste the time we need right now to drain the resources and implement those projects using the funds from the European Union. So this is completely wrong. The timing is simply the worst possible, because it is clear that there will be delays, that the authorities will deal with their own reform and move instead of issuing building permits! And as for the practical aspects of the matter. What was going on here was science fiction. It certainly doesn't work that way, and it's never gonna work. Electronization and digitalization is important, that's clear, and the more, the better, but those construction agencies are doing a lot of local field investigations. You don't digitalize that, you just can't. And knowledge of local realities is absolutely crucial simply to make things move and, if possible, to resolve wisely. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u61	Mr Jan Birke will now appear and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to a few things that he said first and foremost, through you, Mr Čižinský. I'm gonna talk like a long-time mayor here. I ask that we use real reality and not say things that are simply not possible here in this country to do. In case the mayor starts hosting a zoning decision, a building permit, for God's sake, don't say that again! [[with laughter]] It's just not possible. You can't do that, because the moment this happens, the court of the district court or the Regional Court in Brno is instantly the case, you're called bias and you're done, the whole thing's over. Let's face it, for God's sake! That's the first thing. I don't want to get emotional and raise another 20, 60 or 5, 10 technical notes and prolong the debate. But for God's sake, let's just say these things the way they are, maybe we listen to each other, because we may have different opinions about each other, but we all live in it. On the contrary, I think that what is now is pasculi. What's now! Now what we're going through! I've been waiting 15 years for a zoning decision! What he is now! [[Note from the right off the microphone: Who's to blame? Stop.]] Okay, well, we can discuss that it's worth it, but I'm talking about it being our fault... I've been waiting 15 years for this. My colleague Adamec - I know he's waiting for a zoning or building permit for the next few years just because the state has neglected it. Let's put it the way it is! But let's not tell each other the fact that something hasn't started yet, and we're about to throw it off the table. [[The whole speech was spoken in a very strong voice.]] So what I'm saying for myself is, what's today is messed up! And not what may have come from a pen. I don't want to evaluate it, because I'm gonna be calling in another tech. But based on what's happening today, it's not working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u63	I'll read two apologies. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes between 18.30 and 23 hours for reasons - personal reasons and Tereza Hyťhová apologizes until the end of the day from 18.30 for reasons of work. Mr Jan Čižinský will now make a point of fact and Mr Ondřej Benešík will still be prepared for the case. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u64	Thank you. I may not scream here, but through the President, my colleague, we will certainly not abolish all the development committees, all the development committees that we have in cities and municipalities. A normal investor, every investor comes to the committee, when it's a bigger project, they introduce the project, the committee gives him an opinion, and that's the moderation I'm talking about. I've never talked about the mayor discussing how the construction office or what they're gonna do to the construction office, I never talked about it. But, of course, the moderation is that you have experts on the committee or on the committee who give an opinion to the investor, they tell the citizens some opinion, and if the committee is good, the investor understands, he doesn't lose meters, he adjusts, so it's very fast management. As I say, we actually have projects that have building permits within a year of the sketch, and they are big projects. But I'd like to say for the public interest. I really wonder if the Ministry of Culture has changed its mind. The Minister has been here, fighting the law all along, for a long time. I'm curious about the Department of the Environment, which, suddenly, those who defend this proposal are wedged in here. What do they say that they have lost the opportunity to give a decision to a court of law to a building authority that, in their view, does not defend the public interest that the ministry is supposed to defend? I would really like to hear from them here how satisfied they are that public interest will not really be able to defend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u65	Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr. Ondřej Benešík, will now make a point of fact, so the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u66	Thank you for the floor. I'd hate to have the impression here that there are just one good guys who want to make the building proceedings more efficient and faster, and others who keep them from doing it. It's just not like that. Of course, the design has many positive aspects, but in my opinion, the negatives are clearly dominated and it's just kind of a wedge-whipping thing. The fact that someone, Mr. Birke, called it a pasquil - maybe it pasquil them. But what we're just about to approve now, or you're going to approve now, is even more pasculi, and it's at the least appropriate time, because people are going to leave, they won't. That's right, they're going to leave for the most part, the authorities are going to be paralyzed by their own activities in order to organize, transform, move, and we're going to run seven-year-olds or the two- and three-year deadline for European funding. And they won't issue building permits. Really, there is a risk that much of the money will not be exhausted. Why do I say they're leaving? Because small construction offices don't take all the time. We have two people there, we have two people in particular, and neither has a full-time job. They're self-governing, too. They're gonna stay in that office, and who's gonna replace them in the central one somewhere in Uhersky Brod? Well, somebody's gonna have to find each other. When will it be found? Will it be found, won't it be found? How long is this gonna take? Another paralysis. That is why I say that even if this law is great and best - as it is not, in my opinion it is even more pasculi than what we are operating on today - this timing is absolutely disastrous because it will not be issued building permits and we will not draw European money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u67	Mr Ivan Adamec will now make a point of fact. Since this is the only application for a factual one, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal is still prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, I would like to respond to my colleague Birke. I must say that the situation with regard to time limits, the speed of the process of territorial and construction procedures has significantly extended during the previous government, in the last parliamentary term. I was talking about it here. And do you know what the problem is? That the ŘSD that solves the bypass, like I'm dealing with the highway at our place, they just can't get the stamps they need, which are clouds. With us it took 504 days, it owns the territorial management, which then went without a mistake. A valid territorial decision was made, without any opposition from various initiatives and so on. But let's be honest. Every change was a change for the worse. I'm worried that this change is definitely here and that we're gonna meet her very soon. And it doesn't matter how the election goes, because every government will have to deal with it, because what's in front of us on the table isn't gonna work, and it's gonna make us more worried than happy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u69	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will now speak in the general debate. Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize to my colleague Holomčík for overtaking him, but I have a chair to chair so that we can get to all of this. Madam Secretary, Mr Senator, Mr Minister of the Environment, dear Members, I would like to introduce you to the text of the call from the Chamber of Deputies, under which several thousand signatures have been obtained during this day, which calls for us not to approve and stop the negotiation of this law. The text of the call is: "At present, this is a fatal intervention in the protection of particularly valuable natural territories, which does not even think about property owners or locals and weakens the protection of public interests. What is wrong is that the law was prepared in violation of legislative rules, there is no wider consensus on the main principles of building law." That is what I think is important, because as it often sounds here, it is pushed to strength and it will need to be corrected again in the next parliamentary term no matter how it turns out, so we will do one job twice or three times. "The proposal eliminates the protection of public interests based on a professional assessment. Urban planning reform is missing. Property owners and locals have to defend their interests in court. The time limits for the decision-making of the building office remain unenforceable. The collapse in issuing building permits for reorganisation is inevitable. Reform cannot do without billions of spending. Centralization of decision-making will strengthen corruption opportunities. There are no tools to cope with climate change. It is necessary to redo the construction law and to submit it for renegotiation after the elections." There are still more developed reasons why we, as Members, should reject this proposal: "Practical nature is at risk. So far, functioning nature conservation authorities will no longer have the right to veto. The environmental impact assessment process shall be conducted by the construction authorities. The Supreme Administrative Court, 101 academics and the Ombudsman commented against the changes." Another reason: "The tools for managing climate change are missing. Although the definition of green infrastructure has been introduced into the law, in many other areas, the law puts its back on the challenges associated with climate change. For example, even the most valuable agricultural land will be purely for the decision of the construction office." I think that's a pretty important thing. We have a recent experience with this around Olomouc. The way in which valuable agricultural land is stopped is long-term problematic. Another reason: "The property owners and locals have to defend their interests in court. Property owners and locals will have limited options to argue in standard proceedings, they have lost the right to object. What is more, most of the time limits for examining the documents and submitting observations have been shortened." Another reason: "The reform of territorial planning is missing. Territorial planning is intended to guarantee the fulfilment of the needs of local residents and respect regional ties. However, the new law does not count on territorial planning reform. The Ministry of Regional Development refused to strengthen the powers of the authorities.' We've actually heard that here today, too. "The time limits for the decision-making of the building office remain unenforceable. The Regional Building Offices, which will decide on all major constructions, will only have time limits for decision-making without new tools for their recovery. The owners of engineering networks also have a deadline for their comments only in order. There are no appeals in the event of disrespect. The collapse in issuing building permits for reorganisation is inevitable." That's what we're talking about here, too. "The extensive reorganisation, according to the Ministry of Interior, will cause paralysis in the decision-making of constructions for at least one year. Unfortunately, the decline in the number of permits issued will coincide with the investment support of European funds and at the same time with the economic recession. There is no wider consensus on the main principles of building law. With such an important and substantively comprehensive law, there must be an elementary consensus over the main principles of change. The shortcomings are highlighted not only by representatives of the authorities, but also by representatives of professional associations, academics and expert advisory bodies." After all, we are here today because the law has also been rejected by the Senate by absolute agreement, and I think it is simply an unsustainable state of adoption of such fundamental legal changes. "The proposal further eliminates the protection of public interests based on an expert assessment. The protection of public interests will be fundamentally weakened by the silence of the authorities concerned. Newly, the impacts of the project, such as the environment, are to be assessed only within the building office, even in the case of particularly valuable territories such as national parks." I think this is quite a crucial thing, that we simply give the protection of the most valuable pieces of our nature purely to the building authorities. During this parliamentary term, we have been dealing with matters such as constitutional protection of water, but the basic problem is that we respect current laws on water protection and enforcement. And I don't think this trip is gonna make any difference. "The reform can't be without billions of expenses. One-off expenditure for the change of the public administration organisation is estimated at CZK 1.4 billion. However, this calculation does not include the cost of digitization, renting of new premises and other costs." [[19.10 hours]] "Strengthening corruption opportunities. The responsibility for the rapid approval of buildings will belong to the Supreme Building Office and its Chairman, whom is appointed and withdrawn by the Government. In practice, the password "one application, one stamp and one permit" can soon be translated into "one application, one permit, one bribe"." I think that, even in this parliamentary term, we have had some experience of how certain authorities, where all power is concentrated in the hands of one person, do not work well. Such an arrangement necessarily leads to increased corruption potential and further inconveniences for the future. "The law was prepared in violation of legislative rules. According to the Ombudsman's office and the Government's Legislative Council, the Ministry of Regional Development, the present new building law, contrary to the legislative rules of the government, which are binding as a government resolution for the Ministry." Although, of course, we can judge this as a zero point, because in the end, the main content of this law has become a parliamentary proposal, but all the more so I think that such fundamental changes in the laws that govern a large part of our society should go through the standard process. So it was a call for us not to discuss this law in order to stop it. I think it would be appropriate to obey her. I will not have any procedural proposals at this time, but I think it is really inappropriate what we are going to do here, and we have been able to devote that time to laws that may have been more consistent and would not have threatened such high costs and disruption of our public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u71	Mr Radek Holomčík will now speak in the general debate and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u72	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on yesterday's debate that we had with Mr Kolovratník on the topic of biofuels on the radio, and I will disagree with him yesterday as I did yesterday. But before I say what I don't agree with, I'm going to illustrate this on specific cases, so I would just like to appreciate a certain dose of self-Kolovratník that I've felt of him now, because before the law got into the Senate, so he often, when he commented on it, said it was great that he was going to solve everything, so now I've read some of his article, and I kind of figured that he's already commenting that the proposal is good, so some relief, although in my opinion it's not enough to ease things, but let's be happy for the gifts. I don't think the signal the Senate sent us can be ignored. I confess that I sometimes disagreed with some of the Senate's decisions and attitudes in the past. A number of things that we're dealing with here is a question of world view, a question of opinion. I respect that, but if from 65 senators and senators, who and who have just different expertise, different life experiences, have come to the Senate from different professions, many of them have experience from the communal, from the region, from the functioning of the state administration, from the functioning of a number of authorities, and if 65 of the senators or senators present agree that the law is wrong, I would simply not ignore it. And if we're pretending that the Senate is just this massively wrong... Even if I didn't have the comments I said in the standard hearing, we just can't ignore it. So I'd really like to appeal here - even if the question is whether it makes sense - I'd like to appeal that we don't make the mistake, because this is the key law in this way, basically it's a policy with a hammer, we're pushing at the last moment before the election. It's a big change, which, in our opinion, although it's been going on for quite a while, it just isn't discussed. There are a number of question marks and questions that have not been answered and in me, and I apologize, and of course take it a little exaggeration, which gives the impression that the Prime Minister has chosen a strategy to stay with the government after the election, that he will just chop up such mistakes that no one normal will want to do. And now I get to what I disagree with my colleague Kolovratník. We've already discussed this before the press went to the Senate. He says, and not only does he say that there will be virtually no destruction of environmental protection and protection of the entire part of the ingredients that make up the landscape. I would like to show, on the example of two specific examples, that this is simply not the case. It's woods and it's farmland. He's been suggested by the previous speaker, Vice-President Pikal. I've mentioned it here before, but it's such a big deal to me that I'm gonna do it again. In a situation where we have an agenda for protecting the agricultural soil fund and the state administration of forests that operates across the board, we actually come up with the fact that part of the agenda that falls within the competence of these authorities is being pulled out and put it in a completely different place. I certainly do not suspect and priori officials of the construction office of some evil intentions, but the purpose of the construction office's activities as such is not the protection of the agricultural soil fund and is not the state administration of forests. In fact, we give them powers that they should never have in a normal state. And if now, and I said it last time, if we now have problems with, for example, the agricultural land trade, and the problems really are, and isn't it just an example that Vice-President Pikal of Olomouck once again mentioned here, where we're talking about the most delicious soil, so if we have some reservations now, let's just ask what the last two parliamentary periods this coalition is - with the exchange of one coalition partner - actually in the saddle that we did to make better the state administration of the forests work, when it doesn't work to the extent that it needs to be removed, the land intended to perform the functions of the forest and put it under the building super-office? What did we do to make it work if it didn't work? And by analogy, I can also ask questions about the protection of the agricultural soil fund. I really do not see this as a way forward and I would like to remind you: what we are discussing here in the House, and of course the debate has also been held in the last parliamentary term, some anti-zero decree to protect the land from certain negative manifestations of climate change, but also the state of the soil they are in. This means we have to go the way that the soil, which is simply irreplaceable and difficult to regenerate the natural wealth on which our survival depends in the future because it gives us one of the most important things, and that is food, so instead of going through logic: let's talk about how to protect it more, and basically degrade this whole protection. We're talking here or we've been talking about constitutional water protection for a while. Finally, it reduced to constitutional protection of drinking water. What happens if we don't have it, if the land and even the forests are even more flattened, even by illogical interventions related to the construction activity, which we simply will have no one to tear off, because those competences will go somewhere else? What do you mean? What about the water? Well, it won't be, because we're going to set up a system that will go exactly the opposite logic. In relation to the forests - we have been here in such a strange way recently - I hope they have not murdered, but at least delayed and complicated the discussion of a very important amendment to the hunting law, which has a great effect on how our forests will or will not be renewed after the brutal barking calamity. And instead of going the way that will improve the opportunities we have and improve the state of our forests, we will actually rip it out within one part of the forest administration and put it outside any control of the competent authorities. And again, it's not a question or an attack on the competence of building officials. I certainly don't want to go this way, but their job is elsewhere. We don't want our dentist to fix our car either. [[19.20 hours]] So I would like to appeal very, very strongly to us not to pretend that everything is okay here, that this novel, which comes a few weeks or months before the election, will shift the situation. And I very, very much agree with what Mr Birke said here that the current situation is bad. I certainly don't deny that, and I don't think there's even anyone in the House who doesn't say at least that the situation needs to be fixed, but this is just not the way, and given a lot of problems - and it's not just the problems, because I've been focusing on the specific part of the environmental problems, of course there are more problems - it just doesn't solve this. Please, let us keep this in mind when we vote and respect the overwhelming majority position of the Senate. I think that's the unique symbol and the signal that something's wrong, we haven't gotten a chance in this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u73	Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear and I will stop 30... Sorry, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u74	Mr President, I would like to ask for a break of 20 minutes for a meeting of our club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u75	Yeah, but that should be brought up by the club chairman or vice president of the club. Please, Mr. Vice-President of the Pirate Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u76	Thank you for the floor. I would ask for a 20-minute recess for the Pirates' MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u77	Okay, so at the pirát' request, 20 minutes, so I'll meet you here at 19.42. In fact, only Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr. Navrkal, is registered at this point in time. Everyone has 30 minutes. It could be twice 30 minutes, so that's about the current state of affairs. I'll read two more apologies, even though I've already declared a break, it's running, but I hope you don't mind, let's get this over with. Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes for reasons of work today from 19:00 to the end of the day, and Mr. Jiří Běhounek apologizes from 19:00 to the end of the day for reasons of employment. So 19.42.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u78	Time's up, we've got 19.42 hours. I'll read the apology, so we'll continue. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes today until 19.42 hours. So that's up to now... so that's it, so that's how I read it. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yeah, but that's what's still going on here, because the minister is 13. 7. Sorry... what day is today... 13. 7., yeah, then there's the second part still, this is an update that from 16 o'clock to the end of the hearing for work reasons. [[on]] So that's the sequel to the first e-mail. Now Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík has the floor, so you have your first 30 minutes, and Mr. František Navrkal will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to respond with my speech to my colleague Kolovratník, who had a bit of mystifying this House when he claimed that this proposal had the support of Reconstruction of the State. I deliberately looked into how it is, and it is appropriate to set it right, because, firstly, the reconstruction of the state did not express itself on the law itself, it only referred to the area of corruption risks within the law, that is, it did not assess the full impact of this proposal on building law in the Czech Republic, on the speed of construction and nothing like that, only to deal with the issue of corruption risks. And I'll allow myself to read this press release of the State's reconstruction, add some commentary to make it clear that Mr. Kolovratník is quite mystifying. The reconstruction of the state draws attention to the corruption risks in the government's design of the construction law and calls on politicians to address: The prepared construction law aims to simplify the approval of buildings in the Czech Republic and speed up the construction process. This is the only crucial attempt by the current government to reform this part of the government, which is widely seen as ineffective and suffering from a number of serious problems, including systemic bias. The new building law can solve a number of problems, but according to the State's Reconstruction, the current proposal also contains some significant risks. In particular, it is possible to influence expert opinions on the interests of senior experts or on the assignment of files. Garanti reconstruction of the state therefore calls for amendments to the draft law which will eliminate these risks. Building law is one of the key laws that affects the practical functioning of municipalities and the lives of citizens who choose to build or are affected by construction. There are still intense debates on its particular form, with only a few months left for its adoption to the elections. The House should renegotiate the form of the building bill next week, with a key comprehensive amendment by the Economic Committee, which, with the support of the government, has replaced the government's proposal, heading towards centralisation of the building procedure into a unified system of new state construction offices. This proposal would address the problem of systemic bias, which the courts also draw attention to, namely that politicians have a direct impact on civil servants of the construction offices and can thus fundamentally influence their decision-making. However, the reconstruction of the state points out that the proposed solution to this problem carries other significant risks against which the necessary safeguards are not set. The adoption of the Act, as proposed by the Government and the comprehensive amendment, would thus also give room for clientelism and corruption within centralized offices in addition to the promised benefits. The emphasis on the expertise and transparency of decision-making needs to be strengthened. Officials of the construction office are also bound by the instructions of the superiors, who are from another field of public service, in the processing of expert opinions. This threatens a legally accepted influence on the expert opinion of the interests promoted by senior officials. The law also allows for any allocation of files. As a result, it would be possible to influence the decision by the purposeful selection of the official, describing the specific risks of Josef Karlický, the Head of Reconstruction of the State. According to the guarantors Reconstruction of the state is necessary to address the risks. We consider it necessary to establish the professional responsibility of officials and the transparency of their decisions. Assigned allocation of files to officials could then be faced with the introduction of a publicly accessible schedule of work of construction offices, says CEO Bold Bold and guarantor of Reconstruction of the State Pavel Franc. Therefore, the reconstruction of the State draws attention to these risks from representatives of both government and opposition parties and calls for them to address them." So this is, please, the opinion of the Reconstruction of the State, which draws attention to the corruption risks of this law, and my colleague, Kolovratník, is deducing from it how The reconstruction of the state allegedly supports this version of the law, which is clearly nonsense, since the amendments which the State's reconstruction supported in this matter were not adopted, either because they were not technically ideally prepared or from any other practical problems, but those problems were certainly not resolved. So, unfortunately, that's the way we have it here with everything that only brings up what comes in handy and unfortunately doesn't give the whole attitude. And in this case, I'm afraid my colleague, Kolovratník, has actually distorted reality. From another point of view: since we have two members of parliament who are divided into this law, I think it is fair to give them room to unite their position, so I propose that we interrupt this proposal, interrupt the hearing of this proposal by Friday 9.00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u80	So I'm gonna go on and we're gonna... I'm gonna check you out, all of you, sign up with your voting cards again. [[Gong.]] I will give sufficient room for Members to return to the Chamber because we have been sitting here for so long over the law, so that Members who have a taste or an interest in voting have time to come to the Chamber. [[Gong.]] I can still see the Members coming, so we'll wait. [[Gong. Members are gradually coming to the Chamber.]] [[19.50 hours]] Then I will wait, because I still see Members coming in the distance to give them space. I will repeat the proposal that we will vote on. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík proposes that we interrupt negotiations on this item by Friday at 9.00. Log in with your voting cards because I've had everyone log out in a more empty room. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 150, 136 Members registered, for 33, against 99. The motion was denied. Mr František Navrkal will now be given the floor in the general debate. [[Voices from the O.R.]] You're no longer applying, so I don't have anyone else registered for the general debate. I'd better take a look around. So if no one else is reporting, I'm done with the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Madam Secretary? Mr. Senator, too? Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u81	Thank you for the floor. Since we are actually repeating the same reasons several times over and over again, I kept the final word, because you know that I was very active in all readings to talk about these things. So I just have a few comments for today's hearing. Again, the government version versus the House version. The government version completely, colleagues, fulfilled the agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities gave a negative opinion in the finals, which is why, of course, the debate on the premises of the House opened up. You've touched the costs here. Once again, I would like to assure everyone that we are not really going to build any new offices on a green meadow, that is, the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, which counted on the most critical option, will never happen. [[There's a huge noise in the hall and very poor audibility.]] Just so you know, when Mr Kupka versus the House's version mentioned the opposition proposal here, the opposition's proposal is based on 3.8 billion. And once again, I note that the state pays 4 billion a year for municipalities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u82	I'm gonna ask you to calm down. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, because we've been really noisy around here. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down so the secretary can express herself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u83	- for the exercise of delegated powers, so it is the national competence, the competence of the State, the gesture of the State and the State are also paying for it in the case of municipalities. The House's version is based on 4.1 billion, and this is due to the fact that we are one grade higher with civil servants of the construction offices so that we can actually ensure a highly qualified force. As far as the legislative process is concerned, I repeat that, on the contrary, we have been through the whole legislative process. What's not customary nowadays, a substantive bill, to the interdepartment. The proposal for a law in question was held by the LRV. LRV recommended to the government to approve, the government approved the paragrafo text, the interministert repeated three times. The Government Legislative Council and the Government Legislative Council discussed all the arguments you put here, the protection of public interests, and so on, with the representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court who were present at the Government Legislative Council, and made a proposal for approval. [[The noise in the hall didn't stop. Still very poor hearing.]] The comments made by the LRV have been fully incorporated into the draft new construction law. We reduce bureaucracy, which is why we speak in the second breath that, of course, the number of officials will decrease. And when I talk to the mayors, they say, "Yes, when we read it, it's pretty clear that if we had four officials today, given that you're going to the appeal principles and so on, they're only going to need two. Those mayors really want the construction authorities to stay, as far as possible, in their territory. I'd just like to touch on the fact that, of course, you criticized 26 novels. Yes, I completely confirm and I also criticize 26 amendments, but only for accuracy, of those 26 amendments MMR submitted one, one!, in 2018. All the other amendments were caused by a change in the component laws. Of course, we all know where we went, so we tried to name all the problems, and this is how we prepared it to be actually composed of all the problems. Decisions swell - it was said here that we have many organs involved. The authorities concerned will be integrated in most of them. Where not, there is a fiction of consent that has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies under the Line Act. You've been talking about citizens' trust, you've been talking about polls. Of course, we also have surveys, and it follows from these surveys that 80 percent of citizens, not officials, want depoliticisation, just so that it is not in the gesture of municipalities, because there are actually some things involved. And you mentioned covid. Well, covid is the scare of the fact that if there's an ungodly repetition of situations, the building authorities are very paralyzed if anyone gets sick. It turned out, once again, to a disaster in the South Moravian region, where it is now necessary to strengthen the construction offices in Hodonín and Břeclav and the state has no instrument. We don't have a way, we're really going around very unhappyly. Colleagues, both Mr Bartoš and Mr Kupka, have called for a super office here. Please, even in the opposition proposal, there is a proposal from the Supreme Building Office. We are absolutely no different from the opposition in the Supreme Building Office and, of course, the special construction office. It must also be said that digitalisation is a tool to support the construction process, not a conceptual solution. On the other hand, as regards the survey mentioned here, I was pleased by the survey of the Association of Local Authorities, when 40 percent of the first good officials said they would pass, and 24 percent said that they would stay in the village. The others make decisions and, of course, we will try to get them for the construction office. As far as Mr Kupka is concerned, I would just like to say that we have actually dealt with what people see as the most pressing problem in the survey. They had a choice of two questions: Is the distance of the building office important to you, or is quality staffing and continuous performance of the agenda important to citizens? I guess I don't have to tell you how it turned out: 87 percent of people want, of course, qualified officials and the continuous performance of the agenda, because they're aware that we all go to the construction office once, twice in our lives, tops. At the same time, there was talk of local jurisdiction. If you have two people at the construction office, and these local officials obviously have to deal with the housewarming proceedings, so if there are two people out there and they go to the housewarming, who's gonna do the projects? Well, no one, the applicant can, of course, wait. And only to Mr Kupek. You're the one who argued that the Ministry of Regional Development didn't deal with systemic bias. Mr President, please find out the facts first, because the whole point is that we had to wait for the handover of the file from the City Hall of Prague. The City Hall of Prague had to request a file from a first-stage authority, and these are exactly the consequences where it takes so long, because of course the process is very fragmented. So as soon as the MMR received the file, it took place within a legal period. [[20.00 hours]] As far as Mrs Kovářová is concerned, she has appealed here that we want to abolish 400 construction offices. Madam, there were 400 construction agencies in the opposition proposal, so of course we are not at odds here. On the contrary, we say that we want a territorial workplace, of course we want to get the agenda as close as possible to people. On the other hand, we want to allow all electronic communication with the building office to actually arrange everything for the person or the applicant. Again, in the Czech Republic, we are a very small country, there are 1,300 separate construction offices. Poland, which is four times our size, has 300 of them and, of course, the construction process is prompt there. You handed me a petition of 1,300 citizens. Madame, there are 10.7 million people in the Czech Republic, and believe me, people don't care if they have a municipal official or a state official to do the construction procedure. They want the state to respect the deadlines, and that's why the changes that are proposed are there. As far as Mr Výborný is concerned, I repeat again: the Government's Legislative Council has given a favourable opinion and has recommended the adoption of a construction law. Maybe just one more comment about the mobiles. There is a misunderstanding because mobileheims cannot be in the public area according to the construction law, but only in recreational areas and the recreational area is determined by the municipality on the basis of spatial planning. So please absolutely don't put this in the context of the new construction law. As for the living room: yes, of course, we had wrinkles on our foreheads here. On the other hand, we have dealt with this, I have also looked into the notification processes, because every decree must be notified, and it needs to be said here that the decree must comply with the European directives, such as energy efficiency, and the Commission itself has made the approval of Prague's construction regulations conditional on compliance with these aspects according to Czech state standards. The Czech state standard lists direct daylights. As far as the expropriation law is concerned. Here, please, it's a separate prescription. He will only be able to enter the Chamber of Deputies, so we will certainly be able to deal with the things that Mr Výborný pointed out. As far as Mr Votava is concerned, just a small statement. It's not true that the government doesn't agree. The government has agreed to what a material purpose, which is basically built on the same model as we have in the House today. As regards the government's proposal after the substantive intention, after paragrafo the wording, there was, of course, a compromise with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. But again, I would point out that, even the Government Legislative Council, the Supreme Administrative Court points out that the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Government did not address systemic bias, and indeed, no administrative order has resolved it. Once again, I point out what systemic bias is: this is the center of two universes where the interests of the state with the interests of self-government are covered. Subtleness as it is that an official is a neighbor to someone who comes by will, of course, always be. I would just like to say to Mrs Balcarová that there will be no weakening in the protection of public interests, on the contrary, everyone will be able to comment. Of course, we also respond to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, and we do not deprive anyone of their rights. As far as the rendering of the territory is concerned, the building office does not decide there, but the territorial planning authority, which is delegated. That's where the situation is preserved as it is today. As far as the current construction law is concerned, it has never been dropped by the Constitutional Court. On the contrary, as far as the blue-green infrastructure you pointed out was concerned, there was an amendment from Mr Luzar, Mr Dolínek's workshop and mine to preserve the elements of the blue-green infrastructure. So much for this. I would just like to conclude by saying that all these arguments, as we have listened to them here, have always turned to the distribution of the model of government and self-government. We are actually responding to the problems of our day. I want to look our citizens in the eye, I want to guarantee young people respect for deadlines, but in order to guarantee it, I need to be able to strengthen those officials by the number of requests, so we are proposing this model. I believe it will actually work, and I repeat: believe me, a citizen doesn't really care if he's a state official or a community official. I also agree with the arguments that they may not understand us very much in this debate, but it is essential for them to be predictable if young people, for example, take a mortgage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u84	Sorry, Senator, I have to correct you. The senator here is not entitled to the final word. I just missed it, now I've looked into it. On the contrary, the rapporteurs are entitled to the final word, so there is certainly room here. So, is Mr Martin Kolovratník interested in the economic committee? You don't. Ivan Bartoš - Committee on Public Administration? You don't. And Marek Benda, the constitutional law committee? There's no interest either. So I have a request here now, because otherwise we would have taken a vote, but the ODS MP informed me - 10 minutes pauses. No, are you interrupting? Okay. So I'm gonna do a little more of that to make sure there's enough room to show up. And we will proceed to the vote under Section 97. So check out again, huh? So I'll check you out, sign up with your voting cards again. We shall proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. Please set the necessary number of votes, that means 101. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft building law according to House press 1008/12'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 151, 162 Members signed in for 104, versus 55. I state that the bill has been passed. [[Applause from the left and from the central part of the hall.]] And I'm done discussing this press. Anyway... the accompanying press, I'm sorry, the accompanying press to the law... Exactly, you guys are getting up out of your chairs, but we have one more press. No? Wait a minute. Mr. Chairman Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u85	Thank you for the floor. You've declared the law, we've announced that we're aware that you have the power to do it, and you want to say it. Anyway, here I am saying that the law is wrong and must be changed after the election. And this government - and above all, it is the YES movement - has currently opposed our mayors, our self-governments, our communities. The YES movement is set against the mayors and damaged the self-government, that's a clear message. You'll recruit new officials, you'll make the system more expensive. That will be the consequence of your law. Everyone who's been in communal politics knows the law is wrong, and you've done it! The YES movement is against the mayors in our communities, it is against the authorities. That's a message from today's vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-003-007.u86	We're gonna keep going, we've got one more press here, and that's it.
