ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u1	336. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Sb. on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and amending other laws, as amended, and some other laws / House print 545/ - third reading I repeat, we're at the third reading. Please note that the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 545/7, which was delivered to you on 26 February this year. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House prints 545/8 and 9. I ask the plaintiff, Madam Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Yes, it is. The Minister of Justice of the Government of the Czech Republic, Marie Benešová, has the floor now. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As has already been mentioned here, this is the House Press 545. It's a government bill on bailiffs and more. It's a very important law that we care about, we're at third reading. Its main goal is to solve multiple executions. This law provides for measures to limit the number of execution proposals submitted and to ensure that non-successful enforcement procedures are stopped at an appropriate time to prevent the accumulation of such executions. We all know that this is a huge problem that is burdening this country. The Government's proposal envisages the introduction of a compulsory advance on the costs of execution. If it doesn't file, the executioner will stop the execution. The measures should be justified in order to consider whether they will initiate the execution if they know in advance that it could be ineffective. The proposal also contains legislation on the cessation of effective execution after three years. Stopping such execution will be the duty of a judicial executor. The effective execution will be terminated if, for the last three years or if there has been no partial satisfaction of the enforcement obligation, at least at the level of the execution costs, and where no taxable property has been established or secured for the period of the execution costs, sufficient at least to satisfy the costs of execution. The rights of the entitled are protected, so he is given the opportunity to lodge an additional advance on the costs at the request of the judicial executor. Furthermore, the proposal addresses some of the partial problems arising from practice. For example, it provides for reimbursement of the costs of the payer's wages incurred in the execution of wage reductions and other income. [[11.00 hours]] A number of amendments are applied to this government proposal, some of which completely deny the principles on which the government proposal is based, or are associated with not entirely justified costs for the state budget that have not been resolved. However, even if those amendments were adopted from the government of the proposed measures, at least some positive elements would remain. We have had a few briefings at the Ministry of Justice, and we have very much followed the objective of maintaining the positive nature of the outcome of our proposal, and we have come to the conclusion that we still do. So the proposal goes to the next reading. For example, it is necessary to compensate the payers for the actions they are obliged to perform in the execution of the decision or execution by wage reductions and others. I therefore evaluate some changes positively, but also some changes negatively. I will, of course, comment on this in the next part, when we will either give yes or not from our side, and whether we will therefore consider the proposal to be meaningful here. Some of the proposals, as I have already said, would unduly burden the state budget, and yesterday I consulted Vice Prime Minister Schillerová - there really is no financial cover for this, so I would point that out in advance. I also consider some proposals to be unconventional, and later I will speak to them individually. Well, thank you for listening to me, otherwise it may turn out well, and it will remain a good one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová and open the debate. The first enrollment is Mr Marek Výborný. [[Voice: As rapporteur.]] As rapporteur, of course. [[Mr Feri comes to the President with an objection.]] Sorry, you volunteered, but you don't have priority rights because a colleague of Válek's is here. [[Mr. Feri again objects off the microphone.]] That he's not here right now - I saw him here when you applied. [[Member Feri insists on his opinion.]] Mr. colleague, I will not argue with you, the Rules of Procedure are clear in this and the President of the club has priority rights. If the vice-chairman of the club is going to have it, the club chairman will report it to me. I've seen a colleague of the Válek at the time you applied. [[Member Feri opposes. Opposite views in plenary.]] He was here, talking to his colleagues. Otherwise, of course, the rapporteur also has a preferential right, and I have seen that. [[Mr. Feri off the microphone: you are denying me the right under the Rules of Procedure. Please follow the rules of procedure.]] So propose the President's wrong course of action; I cannot respect what the Rules of Procedure do not establish. [[Member Feri: I have priority rights because the club chairman wasn't here.]] The chairman of the club is present at the meeting. The rapporteur is registered with priority rights! I'll give the rapporteur my word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll make it simple, Mr. Vice-President. I'll make it simple so we can avoid unnecessary conflict. Now, if I may, colleagues, colleagues, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, I am acting as rapporteur for the House Press 545. I assume that my colleague, Dominik Feri, who is actually here at the moment as Vice-President of the TOP 09, has the right to sign up with priority rights for the debate, and will be able to do so as soon as I speak as rapporteur. It's so logical. I see my colleague Feri here at the moment, but I don't see the chairman of the TOP 09 MP to Mr Válek, so I think that's settled by this. I am only going to allow myself very briefly, because I will then speak in the general debate on the substance of this law, but I must fulfil the rapporteur's obligation and inform you about the discussion of this House press. In less than three months, it will be two years when the Government of the House submitted a amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement to the House on 9 July 2019. You can see that a huge amount of work has actually been done on this. I want to thank the Minister for the cooperation here, and especially the Ministry of Justice, the Deputy Minister and the entire team, because we have also worked on this in cooperation with the subcommittee on the issues of enforcement, insolvency and debt relief. I think that even the Vice-Presidents, whether Kateřina Valachová or Patrik Nacher, can confirm that this was not one of the negotiations where we dealt with this press, and I am glad that today we are in the finals, at the third reading, and we will be able to reach a responsible vote either today or at the earliest opportunity after the debate. For a quick overview: The first reading took place on November 6, 2019. The second reading took place in two negotiations, namely on 27 October 2020, when we also adopted a resolution that the House confirmed before the second reading of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which means that we will continue to discuss the text approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee. In fact, it must be said that the original government draft, which was also mentioned by the Minister, has made absolutely fundamental and dramatic changes. Today we actually have a de facto different proposal for an amendment to the Code of Enforcement and the Code of Civil Procedure. This implies logically different approaches of the Ministry of Justice to the adjustments made or proposed under the amendments. The second reading was completed by reading the amendments to the Parliament document 7155 fourth - no, sorry, sorry, it was completed on 12 February of this year, 2021. The Constitutional Legal Committee dealt with this House document at its meeting on 17 March and adopted a resolution on which I would like to introduce you. We recommended: "The Constitutional Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies will vote in the third reading on the draft bill in the following order" - I will not burden you with the procedure now, you have also received this House document 545/9, of course I will introduce you to the procedure when we vote immediately afterwards. "The Constitutional and Legal Committee notes that the legal regulation of the protected account is already part of the valid legal order of the Czech Republic, as amended by Act No. 38/2021 Sb." We will probably just recall that we approved the protected account here on our own some weeks ago, I think it was in February this year, so I am charged with the constitutionally-legal committee to make a proposal to withdraw Amendment A4 in the third reading of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies. The institute of the protected account was originally included in this comprehensive amendment approved by the constitutionally-legal committee - for Mr President, in the voting procedure I will therefore propose that we do part A4 given that it is already part of our rule of law, so that we take it back and not vote in the third reading. "The Committee's rapporteur also instructs that, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department, the Office of the Chamber of Deputies may propose the necessary adaptations pursuant to Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.' Here, in advance, I am informing that I will, at the end of the debate, read legislative technical arrangements after consulting the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the effectiveness of certain parts of the proposed law, so that we can create sufficient room for the preparation of especially electronic systems. This will be the effectiveness that was originally in the government proposal, i.e. 18 months, and it will be about the fact that the Ministry will also be able to compete, for example, with the register of executions launched and other matters relating to the electronisation or electronic official plates. It's not just about the Ministry, but it's also about the Executor Chamber, for example. So much for the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I will, of course, give you the views of the committee to which I am also responsible in the course of a separate vote. So much news report, on individual amendments, under which I, myself and the KDU-ČSL, have signed, will be expressed in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u5	Thank you. Before we proceed with Mr Dominik Feri's factual remark, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Miroslav Toman, the Minister of Agriculture, on Wednesday 14 April at the morning meeting for working reasons. Now Dominik Feri with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u6	Mr Vice-President, by your means, you have put us in a very difficult situation here, because I wanted to take advantage of my tough priority right not because I would like to be ahead of myself, but because I would like to comply with the Rules of Procedure and withdraw my amendment before the opening of the debate, so that the House does not have to vote on it. That's all, that's all. I don't know where you got such an ayfr and such an effort to take away my word at all costs. Is it some kind of personal animosity? But I really want to warn you about it. One day, you don't have to manage the meeting and your Vice-President may be denied the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u7	Dear Member, I cannot but say that under the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament, the President and Vice-Presidents of the House and the Vice-Presidents of the Club have priority rights only when the Presidents are excused from the meeting. At a time when political party leaders were not yet equipped with preferential law, it was widely discussed here. Indeed, it is the President's benevolence to announce that, for example, for a certain part - everyone respects this - the meetings apologize, and then the rights of the Vice-Presidents come in. Otherwise, we couldn't hold it, the Rules of Procedure. I explain, I do not abuse the position of President, because this is really a matter that is respected. And don't be mad at me, I can still see well, and my colleague Válek was here, he even spoke to our colleagues. So that's how it was, and I think it's a normal procedure. I never questioned the Vice-President's right, whoever it was, from any member's club when I had a clear apology to the President of the MP's club and I knew who was representing him. So much. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I think these procedural disputes are completely unnecessary. To realise that, after the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have adopted such an adjustment precisely to make the Rules of Procedure flexible and transparent. So all I'm saying is that I, as President of the House of Deputies, am either excused from the House's meeting, and if I'm not and I'm going down to Atrio for example, I'm going to go to the President and say, "I'm not going to be here for the time being and my priority right is going to be transferred to the Vice-President or Vice-President of the Club." It is absolutely simple, easy, and we are overcoming these disputes, even if this is a bit of a bypass of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u9	Thank you, we can continue. Now, then, Mr Výborný's speech, not as rapporteur, if he is interested in following the order as applied for, yes? Please. Then Mrs. Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u10	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, once again. I would now speak to the very substance of this grand amendment to the order of execution and the Code of Civil Procedure. It is, from my point of view, one of the most important prints that we are dealing with in this parliamentary term. Also with a huge social, economic and legal impact on the reality of the current Czech Republic. Perhaps the covid present still emphasizes and increases the effects that, if we can solve on the one hand, the past that we drag with us like a ball at our feet - I mean and I will talk about it in a moment - the amount of executions we are currently dealing with in the Czech Republic, and if we manage to set rules that will create a trampoline in the Czech Republic rather than a network. That means we can prepare the system with effective measures so that we can prove to the people who are in trouble with fulfilling their obligations, get them back into the system, so it will have a positive effect on all the participants in the process. On the one hand, we must safeguard creditors' rights and, if possible, ensure that their claims are met to the maximum extent possible. On the other hand, the whole system needs to work, so that rules are set for both bailouts and execution courts, so that the system really works and helps. It will also have a huge benefit for the state, because the state will of course not lose lost income tax and others and people, if possible, will get out of the grey zone into real economic relations as well as towards the state. It is also important to recall that the execution here does not lie entirely in the air, that there is also a direct connection with the amendment to insolvency law, which was discussed by this House a year and a half ago, which is also very important. At this point, there is another amendment to the insolvency law, partly implementation law, which we are also engaged in, and of course they are continuous vessels. Because the ideal situation is for people not to remain in execution proceedings, but for them to be motivated to go through the debt process and have a really clean table and a possible new life reboot. Let me briefly just remind you that we know what kind of environment we're in right now. At the moment, at least one execution in the Czech Republic is facing a circus of 720 000 citizens. A total of nearly 4.5 million execution procedures are conducted. It must be said fairly that the number is falling - it is not growing, but it is falling. That means there are some positive effects, that's for sure, but it's still a huge number. Almost on average, it results from six executions per person and more than 150 people have 10 or more executions. That means they're dramatically multiple executions. Nearly half of the 720 000 face more than three executions, which means, of course, it is a huge social, economic and political problem in the finals. The problem here, of course, has arisen historically. Of course, they also bear their share of blame for the political representation that has made possible the creation of this environment here. But many things have already succeeded in changing successfully in the past. I would remind you that there has been a reduction in disproportionate remuneration in both law enforcement and enforcement practices, the practice of executions has been avoided on the basis of arbitration findings. These are all positive things. I would also like to remind my colleague Jaroslav Klaška, a Member during the last parliamentary term, when he succeeded in pushing through the amendment to the Consumer Credit Act and in a fundamental way restricting the completely uncontrolled business in the non-bank loans that existed here. Therefore, many of the things that we will be dealing with today as a residue from the past are not really possible anymore, the non-bank lending sector is regulated by the Czech National Bank and their number is somewhere around 90 institutions. It's all right, just like I already mentioned the amendment to the insolvency law. But we are now facing an important and, let's say, the last fourth step, and that is to adjust the entire execution system in the Czech Republic, and that is the amendment we are discussing here today. Like I said, it has two planes. One plane - solving problems from the past. Here I will briefly mention some of the amendments under which I am signed and ask you for their support. On the other hand, I will then talk about creating the system for the future. [[11.20 hours]] As far as the past is concerned, some of the proposals have already been adopted and passed during the constitutional-legal committee negotiations and are contained in the major comprehensive amendment under letter A, which we have already decided, by voting here, that we will continue to discuss in the wording of this amendment. I would remind you of two points relating to the past, and this is the stopping of futile executions up to CZK 1,500. The amendment, which we have prepared together with honored colleague Patrik Nacher and others, basically solves the problem of the small bailiffs, but in vain enforcement proceedings up to CZK 1,500. What will be the content of this adaptation? If, three years before the law is effective, this execution is completely ineffective, then the call for an advance will be made. There's a 30-day deadline, if I'm not mistaken. If the beneficiary does not deposit this advance, it shall be terminated. But, and it is important and necessary to say, we are really always trying to find balanced solutions. I didn't say that at the beginning, but you know, I've said it repeatedly in the Insolvency Act amendment - it is necessary to look for a balanced solution, so we're not just saying here: the bailout will stop, but at the same time 30 percent of the principal - I warn you that it's only down to CZK 1,500 - so 30 percent of the principal will be paid by way of income tax discount, that is, it won't be paid directly, but there will be a form of income tax discount, and 30 percent of the flat-rate expenses will then be paid by way of compensation, which will be determined by the bailout court, to the executioner. That means everyone involved here is gonna have some kind of benefit. The bailiff will receive 30 percent of the cost of something he would probably never recover, because the executions are conducted for three years completely in vain, the creditor will also not be entirely relied on his rights, that is, he will receive a 30% discount on income tax, and at the same time the executions that have actually flooded the system will be terminated. It should be recalled here that the reimbursement of 30 per cent in the proposal is set at a maximum of 10 executions against the same mandatory one, so that we cannot be blamed for the fact that we are dealing with an entirely unfounded income of some large execution offices here. We had a long debate about this in second reading. There is an amendment, I believe, to my colleague Kolářík, and even in two variants, so that it is limited to five or three proceedings. I say for myself that we are ready to compromise and we are certainly ready to support the KDU-ČSL option with five enforcement procedures, where it would be a substitute. All the others would be stopped without replacing the executor. So much for this thing. Another direction towards the past is our folklore "merciful summer." It is once again a proposal to enable us to solve problems from the past, and at the same time to look for a balanced solution here, where it does not mean that debts simply go away as if they did not exist, that would be a big gamble. That would be a huge gamble, which is why we came up with this concept, which eventually comes from an old historical Bible tradition, when debt was forgiven once every 49 years, started with a clean table, so to speak. True, the debate can also be historic, if this has ever been really fulfilled, it may be somewhat controversial. However, the very principle, I think, is completely justified and justified. And once again I say, if we talk about the "graceful summer," we talk about one-off options - one-off offers, handed to the debtor, whom we call: If you want to get rid of your debt, then know, the debtor, that you have to pay at least what you owe, that means the principal. If the debt was incurred on the principal of CZK 10,000, then we give the debtor the opportunity to do so within half a year of the law's effectiveness, because there will be three months for this measure, and after three months he will be given three months as an option, or really it will be six months, half a year to secure the means to pay the debt that was actually incurred. That means the creditor won't be beaten in the sense that he gets the principal paid. And in order to save again the rights of those who will administer, we have incorporated here, as with stopping futile bailouts, a reward of CZK 750 to the executor. It will be paid mandatory again. I want to point out that the amount didn't fall from the moon. We are based on data provided by the Executive Chamber, which stated that the average cost of stopping the execution procedure is CZK 740 without VAT. So we rounded it up, and in the draft law, the sum of CZK 750 is to replace the executor, or to pay the principal plus CZK 750. This applies to all debts that the State is obliged to have, including institutions, organisations with a state interest, as defined in the law. This means, for example, it will also concern organisations, businesses with the participation of cities, regions and so on. Just all state institutions with a small share of the state will be in this first part of the public "merciful summer," when the rule really applies: Pay the principal! This means that if someone has not paid the library fee, for example, they will have to pay the fee, but they will be forgiven for all other grown-up items, so-called accessories such as interest, periodic penalty payments, fines and so on. That's the handshake on the side of the state. It is a one-time thing, will only apply those three, or six months after the approval of this law. And if he does not take advantage of this offer, in the future it will not be repeated in this law, as it will be approved, we believe. A new similar instrument would have to be accepted. This part of the public "graceful summer" has already been supported by the constitutionally-legal committee, contained in Amendment a. At the same time, I come up with the second part that I failed with on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and this is a private "merciful summer," where we propose the same instrument for relationships such as the creditor, or the creditor, is a private person. However, we are aware that there is a need to perceive that, in a way, we are actually breaking into private relations, and that is why we come up with a model that corresponds to what is already inspired by the Civil Code, where § 1805 para. 2 is said to determine the amount of the principal receivable, i.e. 100 per cent, even in a situation where the creditor is unduly inactive and delays recovery. So the Civil Code says that adequate accessories are in the amount of principal, i.e. 100 per cent of principal. That is why we come with model 1 + 1 where we would like to give the debtor the opportunity to settle his debt on the date of entry into force of this law, from the past, so also in private relations he has the opportunity to pay the principal and at most once as much of the accessories as interest, periodic penalty payments, fines plus costs, again at CZK 750, and this debt will be forgiven, or he will not be forgiven because it will be paid. The security will be paid and once so much for the accessories. Of course, it happens very often that the accessories are already paid because of how the claims are accounted for, so of course it will be counted and will be sufficient to pay the principal amount itself. So, in short, it's a private "graceful summer." I am also very detailed in the explanatory memorandum. I want to stress one thing here, which I think is very important too. In the case of a private concept, it is possible to ask the court to extend condition 1 + 1. For example, if a community of owners of units, housing units, housing cooperative and similar costs have already been incurred with execution procedures exceeding a part of 100 per cent of principal, it may be possible to ask the court to take particular account of these reasons in order to refuse the debtor, on application of the executor, exemption from the payment of the legal fees and costs paid by the debtor. So we remember. As well as the possibility of exemption, of course, in accordance with the requirements of justice, claims are, by their nature, excluded by sanction, educational and fulfilling general prevention, i.e. cash penalties, property sanctions, maintenance, compensation for damage to health and the like. Of course, we do, we respect, and there is no use for this benefit of the "merciful summer." [[11.30 hours]] So much for the first part, about the past, and I would briefly talk about the future, that is, what we are proposing and what we would like to see in the future. First I focus on the individualities and then at the end I will also mention the system solution in the form of what unfortunately sounds most often in the media space, and that is the question of the local jurisdiction of the executors. It's very important, it would help a lot. However, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that there are individual partial proposals that are equally or similarly significant and important, and it will be good if we focus our attention on them as well. I believe that my colleague Patrik Nacher will also talk about this because we are giving a number of partial proposals together, and it turns out that this is not really where we sit, but to what extent we feel responsible for solving the problems of execution in the Czech Republic. Individuals: what has been passed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, for example, is already the unification of the penalty on health and social insurance. In the Czech Republic, unfortunately, at the moment, the debt to social or health insurance does not apply to what is standard under the Civil Code, and this is an interest rate of about 8 percent plus the CNB's reputation, but today there is a flat-rate interest rate of 0.05 per cent for every day of default, which, when calculated, does not actually amount to 8 per cent plus the CNB's reputation, but some 36 to 35 per cent per year, which is completely unwarranted. This has been repeatedly brought to the attention of this House, and I have therefore taken the liberty of proposing this adjustment to be fair - simply to get to the same level of claims by the State, or the State and health insurance companies, and private claims so that the same rules apply here. It should also be recalled, however, that the amendment leaves the privilege of recovering claims on health insurance or social insurance, which means that part of the health insurance claims are deducted by employees from gross wages. Health insurance companies are themselves entitled to issue enforcement titles in the enforcement of their claims, so that it is not limited. Nevertheless, I believe that this unification will be for the benefit. The rules should apply to everyone equally regardless of whether it is a state or a private person. Another matter concerns the humanization of mobile executions. I am convinced that this is also a very important matter on which there was a consensus, because it is signed under the amendment, in addition to me and Patrik Nacher and my colleague Helena Válková, Marek Benda, Jan Chvojka, Taťána Malá, which is certainly worthy of our attention. It contains several separate items, both suspension of mobular execution, i.e. execution by selling movable property at a minimum simultaneous deduction from income, or it is proposed that it be protected from execution by sale of movable goods also if it is voluntarily to pay, in addition to legal deductions from wages and other income, an amount corresponding to one third of the income above the unusable amount, up to the amount from which income is deducted without limitation. The condition is that the amount be at least CZK 1,500. In other words, in exchange for a higher payment, he will be protected from the pressure of the executor, because that is the reason. Mobile executions have often been an instrument that has been put under pressure on the debtor in the sense that he will immediately, if possible, fulfil his obligations to the executive office. That pressure was often on the edge somewhere, sometimes beyond the edge of the law. That is why we believe that it is justified to allow the suspension of the Mobiliar Enforcement if there is therefore a simultaneous execution beyond the payment schedule. Another thing that has to do with this is to limit the co-operation of multiple Mobiliar executions, which, in our opinion, is also an important thing - a rule that should limit the implementation of more Mobiliar executions at one time. It is noted that the enforcement of decisions on the sale of movable items can be carried out only for one claim, always with appropriate restrictions, such as maintenance and the like. This applies in general. Yes, even here in the so-called humanization of mobile executions, it is true that, in the case of the enforcement of maintenance and other similar titles, this approach to mandatory is not there, of course. The third thing that is part of this proposal is the ban on execution by selling movable property to particularly vulnerable persons. We believe that here, as is already in the approved insolvency law, it is appropriate to safeguard the rights of particularly vulnerable persons. To make it clear who we mean by that, they are persons receiving an invalidity pension in the second and third stages, and they are persons whose debts arose before the acquisition of 18 years of life. There many have already been resolved because we have approved a de facto ban on preventing the execution of children. And then it's about old-age pensioners. But here we were aware that he wasn't an old-age pensioner like an old-age pensioner... an old-ageer, I'm sorry. And that is why we have determined that the possibility of using this moratorium on Mobiliar Enforcement will only be with those... protected by the person will be only an old-age pensioner who has a pension in a given month that does not exceed the gross monthly minimum wage laid down by the government's regulation, or we have it on a gross minimum wage basis. If an old-age pension exceeds that amount, this benefit will be lost, which means it will not be in the category of particularly vulnerable persons. So it's a humanization of Mobiliar executions. Another thing, which is in several variants - I think it is presented by colleague Kohoutek, we also have here and we will support it - this is the compulsory recording of telephone calls, because it is during telephone calls that there is often completely unjustified pressure on the part of the executor on the compulsory. We believe that, as is also appropriate in other situations, in order to preserve the sound record here, so that on the one hand it can be used as evidence material, and at the same time the sound record will also protect the executor, who can then clearly demonstrate and demonstrate the accuracy of his progress using the recording in question. Thus, it is not only in favour of mandatory but bilaterally, even the executor can resist any possible accusation of an infringement if it can be demonstrated by the preserved sound record. That's the thing. Another of the details: I propose in my amendment - and I thank you for your support - that in the central register of executions led by the Executive Chamber, the overall enforcement obligation be stated. Now there is only the amount of capital recovered, but there is no interest on late payments, periodic penalty payments and so on. This is not very justified and it would be good for clarity to make it clear how high amounts are actually subject to enforcement proceedings. Therefore, I suggest that this is a very simple matter for the central record of executions to include an overall enforcement obligation. This would, of course, improve the information aspect of the whole thing for the public in the Czech Republic. [[11.40 hours]] Another amendment that I am proposing, and I ask for its support, is a proposal to enable the electronic file to be published, not only as the communication between the executive office and the court works today, but also towards mandatory ones. We are filing this proposal again with our colleague Patrik Nacher. We believe that the costs associated with this because there was a complaint that it would cost something, of course, relatively small - the price of one CD and the work of uploading the entire file from the database to the data medium and sending the data medium on request, not automatically every year or something like that, but it should be mandatory upon request. In a situation where today we do not know how it will be after this amendment is approved in the Czech Republic, the regional local jurisdiction of executors does not apply, and very often these proceedings are actually led by the authorities at the other end of the Republic, so this can be a significant helpful step towards both debtors and the whole system. There is no reason why the debtor could not obtain an electronic file upon request. In order to limit the possibility of any bullying on the part of various culprits and so on, the proposal makes it clear that, for a repeated request to send a copy of the file, the executor may require reimbursement of costs in the event of abuse of the right to access the file. That means there's no way anybody can send a request for an electronic file every week. In that case, it would all be charged the way it should be. The last thing is efficiency. I've already mentioned her as a rapporteur. Given that the Constitutional and Legal Committee's original proposal has released the large-scale modification, the so-called snowman, the management concentration, so I would like to adjust my effectiveness on 1 January 2022. There's no reason why this should be postponed further. Of course, if one of the proposed systemic amendments were approved within the territorial framework, the effectiveness would, of course, be extended there. This will be the subject of a legislative technical proposal in the third reading, which I will then present at the end of the whole debate, so that we know that there are some parts that concern, for example, electronicisation, the creation of central enforcement records and the like, where it is fair to those institutions, whether it is the Ministry of Justice or the Executive Chamber, to provide more time in the form of 18 months, as it was finally the subject of the original proposal of the Ministry of Justice. And the last thing, but I would also say important, absolutely essential, are the systemic proposals for the regulation of the enforcement order in the form of territoriality. You know this matter has been repeatedly discussed here. We have here the amendment tabled by the group of Members, headed by Mr Lukáš Kolařík, on the so-called pure regional territoriality and the concentration of management in one executor. KDU-ČSL supports this proposal. I am convinced that this is not a matter of self-savability. In my opinion, the idea of changing the system by accepting local jurisdiction is not entirely relevant. On the other hand, if we look abroad, we can see that some form of local jurisdiction of executors will help to cultivate the entire debt recovery system in the Czech Republic or anywhere in a significant way. I have always sought a balanced solution, which is why I also come here with a compromise solution, with a compromise proposal in the form of consumer territoriality, because I am aware that there are situations where he has the right to have freedom and the opportunity to freely choose an executor who will recover his debt, especially in the case of complex situations relating to enforcement, for example, of those who do business. However, there are situations where there is no reason not to go the way that many times abroad, and that is the regional locality with the so-called circle, that is to say, a regional court that will assign individual proceedings to the execution authorities. Let me briefly remind you and explain what the principle of consumer territoriality is. It retains a substantial part of the positive aspects of the net regional locality and at the same time leaves creditors the opportunity to choose an executor in the case of recovery of claims from entrepreneurs, both from a natural and legal person. In other words, if I enforce the debt from an entrepreneur, I have the opportunity to freely identify the executor who will enforce the debt. In the event that it is a person who is not a natural person, the whole decision will be made, determined by the Regional Court in the form of regional local jurisdiction and concentration of proceedings. This means that there will be preserved and fulfilled the key condition of one bailout - one debtor. That's the basic principle. What this could lead to, or bring about, this amendment if it is approved and adopted. This will clearly reduce the costs of execution, the elimination of procedural duplication, thereby achieving a greater enforcement of creditors' claims, or a positive step again towards creditors. This will bring higher revenue from the state budget and lower social support costs to the State due to less frequent leaks of the debtor into the grey zone and higher legal employment, or positive for the State. Employers and state authorities will be significantly reduced by the administrative burden on the synergies they have to carry out today. Although we are also adjusting it in this amendment and there are some adjustments and electronisations of synergies between the executive office and the employer, if we accept this compromise balanced consumer territory, we will also help employers, including the state. The principle of so-called consumer territoriality introduces an exception to the territoriality allowing creditors to choose a specialised executor in the recovery of claims from entrepreneurs, even because, by the way, this is often more complex and enforcement is not quite as easy as when you enforce a debt from a natural person. That is why the free choice remains here. The essential advantage of this proposal is simplicity. The court is merely assessing whether the debtor has or does not have an IČO, there will be no increase in the administrative burden on the courts, I would like to stress this, this is the issue of electronic systems today. You have an I.C.O., then it doesn't go in the circuit circle, you don't have an I.C.O., we decide. The proposal applies the principle of the Civil Code, where more requirements are imposed on entrepreneurs than on consumers. Therefore, consumer territory, by the way. The distinction is therefore justified and does not show any signs of discrimination. The proposal also introduces the option of an executor, such as the nearest one, for the recovery of maintenance claims and damages. So once again, if there is a question of maintenance, then the possibility of a free choice of executor. We present consumer territoriality as KDU-ČSL in a double variant, one as described, and the other - and I will say frankly, I would recommend this second, extended variant, because I am well aware that there are some privileged claims here, concerning not only maintenance and damages, and claims for damages caused by intentional offences and the like, but that there are other specifically privileged creditors, to whom the acceptance of the net consumer territory could be caused by genuinely unjustified harm in the situation of their enforcement against the mandatory ones, because they often became creditors in a completely involuntary position. Therefore, we recommend the extended version, which also has broad support from non-profit sector organisations, that if they are involuntary associations of persons such as housing cooperatives, the associations of owners of units, or the housing co-ownership and the first-degree municipalities, because there are often mayors who are not relaxed doing the work in the evenings, it would not be entirely right to do so by falling into a situation where they will communicate not with one, but with 10, 12, 30 executive authorities. That is why, in the extended variant, we give the possibility for housing cooperatives, members' communities, but also first-degree municipalities to have the option of free selection of executors to recover their debts, debts to them, so that we do not really cause any additional bureaucratic burden and injustice. [[11.50 hours]] I believe that this step and compromise that I have just described can be an argument for you why to support this option, because I am convinced that the more balanced principle of dealing with the local jurisdiction of executors, which would benefit the future of the whole system in the Czech Republic, is difficult to find with us Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for being rather extensive, but I think that there is also a need to describe the various amendments. Thank you for your support. I would also like to thank everyone I communicate with in the preparation of this amendment, whether they are non-profit organizations People in Need, Charity of the Czech Republic, Institute for Pre-Learning Prevention and others, as well as thank you for feedback from the executors, as well as thank you for feedback from the courts and others, and of course I mentioned my cooperation with the Ministry of Justice at the beginning. I believe that if we are very responsible for examining the proposals that are here, we will be able to approve a balanced solution that will significantly change and improve the execution environment in the Czech Republic so that it is balanced to safeguard the rights of serious creditors, so that we can help responsible debtors who really want to address their debt, so that we can help the state and at the same time the system be functional so that the bailiffs and all those involved can continue to fulfil their obligations, which they also have by law. I believe we will succeed. KDU-ČSL will clearly support such amendments that are tabled here in this spirit, in this sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u11	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. I will ask my colleague Valachová to wait because the President of the club Jan Farský has applied with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u12	Hello, esteemed colleagues. Thank you to all who have participated in the preparation of this challenging amendment, and thank you to my colleague Marek Výborný, who has presented a lot of what I would like to say here, but given the time we have, I will not repeat it. I would just like to draw your attention to a few changes that, from my point of view, are important and that I would like to draw your attention to. First of all, great thanks to the Constitutional and Legal Committee that they have agreed to our proposal in the sense that the first funds, the first instalments, should go to the principal and then to the accessories, because it is one of the essential elements that makes the current pretty inappropriate, to the criminal state, where many people stick to debt slavery. They are hundreds of thousands of people directly, and I would say up to a million people indirectly, if we count their family members. This bill has the primary one, as the Minister has also mentioned, trying to rid us of the tow of an incredible number of executions in which we, as in other statistics, maybe in this, as one of the best quotes in the world's best, because we have some 4 million executions here, 3 million executions are older than three years and a million are older than 10 years, and there's just no movement in many of them anymore, just in that system they're being held and maybe even blocking the repayment of those executions that they could get. This is linked to the amendment on which I wanted to ask your attention. It's under the letters J1 and J2 and it actually implies that we won't judge until we pass the law on the impossibility of repayment, the unenforceable executions, but we'll look back three years. What will result? It will not be until 2028, as Mr Kohoutek's amendment says, that we will get to the first executions and stop them, not until 2025, as is the current proposal, but in 2022. And I think the problem is so big, it's not worth putting him off for years. What is also important in this proposal, and I think it makes a lot of sense, is that the current proposal is that if someone has legal income, they will not be stopped by execution, which on the one hand seems logical, on the other hand, it will lead to people continuing to do black, they will continue to stick to the grey economy and will not be motivated to work and pay anything - they will simply remain in that hopeless situation. We're limiting it to real estate in this proposal. That's what I wanted to zoom in on. As a movement of mayors and independents, we support pure territoriality, hoping to find its great support. If we don't, we'll be coming to those not so perfect, but a backup solution. Then there is another amendment to which I would ask your attention, because I think it is important, although here I am opposed to the statement of both the Ministry and the lobbying of the Executor Chamber, and this is a proposal under the letter J3, which says that since 2023 the Ministry of Justice would lead the central record of executions like other registers. Why this proposal? Because this is absolutely essential information for regulation, foresight, adjustment of the area of execution. Today, they are simply being held by the Executor Chamber, which has been supplying the information better and better lately, I hope, even under the pressure of this read amendment, but it still adds it so that what may not have put it in any significant danger or influence. I think that this data, given how important this is the social, economic phenomenon, the question of executions, how some regions absolutely fundamentally affect this phenomenon and how, unfortunately, I am afraid, it will be following the economic, pandemic crisis that we are going through now, that the problem will expand further, because the economic effects of what is happening now will meet us during the year, two - we do not yet see it completely, because all the support and rescue programs are working in some way, but when they end, we will see the impact that this pandemic has on the economy and on life. That is precisely because executions from the company will certainly not disappear in the coming years, neither will debt traps disappear, but there is quite a risk that the problem will be similar enough, so I think that Central Enforcement Records should be kept by the Ministry of Justice in order to be able to respond quickly, adequately, as accurately and as efficiently as possible. So that's under Amendment J3. There are other amendments, but I would like, as far as possible, to get to the vote today, so I will not go into detail with them. I would like to thank the Minister for one more activity from the counter, because I have been informed that the courts are finally able to push the courts to stop illegal executions. Since I repeatedly intersected in this minister and her predecessor, and the shift was minimal, I am glad that after all the round tables, the interspersals, we have joined forces to a methodology that, thanks to the pressure of the Ministry, will finally start to fall out of the system and be put to an end. Thank you for that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u13	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear, and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues, first of all, a technical matter. I would like to withdraw my Amendment 7429 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is because social insurance and health insurance continue to have the same fate in our vote - and I believe, even in the end. And it's also based on my consultation with helping organizations that help people get out of debt traps. So much technicality. [[12.00 hours]] And now, allow me to present the opinion of the Social Democracy Club. Enforcement, fairer execution, new rules - this is a matter that has been discussed in our country for years, remembers several Houses. So far it has not been possible to reach agreement in these new rules and the topics are repeated with iron regularity. Therefore, when social democracy entered the government, within the framework of the programme of law and justice, it promoted several principles that eventually emerged in principle, new principles of executions that are incorporated into the government's programme, such as the principle of one debtor - one bailouter, a reflection towards the introduction of local jurisdiction of executors, also the dedebtion of vulnerable groups of debtors, such as children or seniors, and, of course, support of stopping the so-called futile ones, or, if you want, the resultless executions, that means that the creditor has not seen a crown, the execution takes place as a execution for execution and very often debtors who have already indebted in times of the last economic crisis fall into debt traps and the result is that nothing works. These principles of logical social democracy are also defended here in the House of Deputies and in committees. This was also in line with the fact that, as Members, we supported a parliamentary proposal that dealt with the two or three principles, if you wish, namely the principle of one debtor - one bailiff, the local jurisdiction of the executors and the stopping of futile executions. Later, we formulated for the purposes of this House and let us say the predictability of our positions and our MP's program Second Chance for New Enforcement Rules, which I would sum up in a simple sentence - yes, an honest repayment of debts and not a debt to slavery. In this spirit, we also subsequently supported the Government's bill tabled by the Minister of Justice, which these principles, the principle of one debtor - one bailout, for let's say fairer, but also more effective execution was contained there, as well as the principle of stopping futile executions. Therefore, our opinions do not change and we are trying to enforce them all the time in order to ensure that creditors, especially small and small creditors, and debtors, obliged, their families are equal to the court or the bailiff. These opinions correspond to the expert opinions of both assisting organisations - many of them have been mentioned here - as well as the long-term opinions of the Judging Union. After all, they are also our employers who actively support new enforcement rules because they consider them ineffective and ineffective in their current form. Now allow me, therefore, to express my final vote on the new enforcement rules that we will deal with today or, if necessary, Friday, in order to fulfil these principles on the part of our Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. The first circuit, the principle of one debtor - one bailiff, or, if you like, the local jurisdiction of the executors. The members' club will support the so-called territoriality of executors, i.e. the local jurisdiction of executors, sometimes referred to as pure territoriality. The principle is simple - we simply want both the debtor and the creditor to be equal to the court and the bailiff, so it is fair, and there is a principle that divides individual matters towards the bailiff in a transparent, clear, predictable, more effective way, and that, at the same time, the principle of one debtor - one bailiff in terms of reducing administration, transparency, law, improving the situation in the work of employers, but also the systemic removal of a number of people from debt traps - is respected. We will also support this principle of the new local jurisdiction of the executors, the so-called consumer territory. I will no longer describe in more detail, the previous speaker Výborný described it quite in detail, but perhaps I will define it in the sense that we consider it better to have the first option, which we will vote on, not the enlarged one. Interestingly, if I spoke to the representatives of cooperatives, the community of owners of units and tenants, they encouraged me to introduce the principle of one executor, they considered it more appropriate. So we're going to support consumer territory in the first version, not the enlarged one. We will not support false territoriality - I will not elaborate on it, simply according to our court, the principles that I have described, which we have long held, are no longer fulfilled in it. The second issue concerns stopping in vain or if you want to be removed from execution. As I point out, these are the executions that are conducted as executions for execution, the creditor does not see a crown, and that is not, I think, colleagues and colleagues, agree, the purpose of the execution management. I note here that we have supported the Government's proposal by Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, but we see where the final vote has come from, so we see that we will support all the proposals that put in place to stop executions, including back-up executions. For the so-called back-up executions, we note that we will support the amendments that govern the original proposal. We consider them important, otherwise we would not have voted, and therefore we will also support the reduction of compensation in the event of cessation of bagatile executions. The second package on which we want to comment is, say, easier administration, efficiency - I don't know if this can be said in the case of execution, colleagues and colleagues, but let's say more pleasant communication between creditors, debtors, executives, employers. We will support all amendments that brings to the execution of electronics, information on the state of executions, disclosure of data by executions. We consider it natural and something that long participants on all sides of the enforcement procedure are waiting for. And the last thing I want to say briefly for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club: we will also support the regulation of mobular executions and the improvement of, say, transparency, but also the control of communication between executors, their employees and the mandatory ones, because this is very often the point of execution, which leads to the fact that supervision of executioners has something to do - not only the Ministry of Justice but also other supervisors - and we have experience in communicating with mandatory, but also some small or medium-sized creditors, that this is exactly the point that we need, if you want, to humanize. This term has been used repeatedly lately. We believe that it is the mobile execution and auction and communication between the executor, the employees and the mandatory ones that deserve fairer rules and that will benefit the fairer executions for the future. We will not take an opinion on effectiveness at the moment as a social democracy parliamentary club. I frankly say that we will still consult this matter with the Minister of Justice and decide according to her opinion, because this has been discussed repeatedly during the discussion, so we will follow the position of the Minister of Justice, which, of course, on the basis of what the Chamber of Deputies will approve, will have the responsibility to put this into practice, which means that we will respect her position from the point of view of starting new rules. That's how it feels to be honest. [[12.10 hours]] To conclude, the new enforcement rules are something that we really need in the long term in terms of equality between creditors, debtors and equality with the court or bailiff. It is a matter on which, if we had agreed, colleagues and colleagues, we would have greatly benefited justice in the Czech Republic, and I think it is something that we need as salt at the time of covid. We would also avoid any negative effects that have led to the failure of these, say, situations in the last economic crisis, and I am glad that this House has agreed, after all, on better rules for debt relief, managed debt repayment easier for seniors and young people, where the origin of the debt was in the ban on child debt, that we were able to agree on a protected account, that we have done what the Houses before us and the governments did not do before us. I therefore believe that these new enforcement rules will also see the light of day, and we, as the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, will support those changes and vote in favour of those changes that we have been promoting in the long term. I'm closing, our second chance for execution, fairer execution sounds clear: yes, an honest repayment of debts and not a debt to slavery. I believe that for this, for this change, we will gain a majority. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention, and once again, as previous speakers, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice, her colleagues for the incredible amount of patience and work they have had to do with us, and I believe that this outcome will be something for which the Ministry of Justice will also be able to stand up and subsequently perform in practice and will be in favour of fairer executions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u15	Thank you. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now speak in the general debate, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I will briefly comment on the press. The SPD has long tried to help people from debt traps and return them from the gray economy back to the system. In the area of execution we support the principle of one debtor - one local executor. This means that all executions against the debtor will be dealt with only one executioner, and above all the principle of territoriality, i.e. the execution will be led by the executioner, who is assigned evenly and closest to the place of permanent residence of the debtor. As a result of this adjustment, the impartiality of the executor and its independence from the legitimate one will be strengthened. By leading all executions one executioner will thus obtain a mandatory overview of the number of executions against the compulsory and real enforcement of claims through the executioner and through it. Therefore, a reduction in the number of unenabled executions can also be expected. By merging the execution of one debtor under one executor, a significant administrative burden will also be removed for third parties. Employers, insurance companies, banks and the like will handle only one application and information for one executor, not a number of identical applications for more executives managing claims of one debtor. Moreover, the merger will reduce the costs of the proceedings, which will increase the possibility of repayment on the part of the debtor. It is the local jurisdiction of judicial executors that is introduced in most EU Member States. This principle also eliminates the corruption environment and ensures the independence of judicial executors, unlike the current enforcement order, which does not contain any anti-corruption policy and motivates executioners and creditors to corruption and clientelism. The proposed proposal aims to concentrate the enforcement proceedings against the same mandatory one bailout officer. However, there is a problem with increasing the costs of recovery because, according to the proposed conditions, the so-called snowman principle, he will hand over another executioner to the executioner who is leading the first execution procedure, regardless of the extent of the claim and the distance to the mandatory one, which is a major deficiency in this government amendment. Therefore, we consider the principle of territoriality to be better. It is necessary to strengthen the position of both legitimate creditors and honest debtors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Mr Patrik Nacher will appear, Mr Kolářík will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u18	Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, as I promised at first and second reading, I would like at this point to focus a little more on this issue, which is very important and which, to say the least, has completed the period of the last few years when the environment of execution and insolvency is cultivated. We're agreed that we're here today until 14 o'clock, and in case it doesn't happen, which is likely, because only the voting procedure is for an hour, it's gonna be like the first point on Friday, if I remember correctly, so I'm sure we'll end it this week, we'll finish and move forward significantly. As has already been said, and I will not go into the full details of the individual amendments presented here by my honourable colleague Marek Výborný, where we are co-signed, but for the moment I will focus on the context in which these changes arise and what has been achieved so far. That's very important. We were at the beginning when I took it, so in the 1990s it was modern not to pay our debts and the creditor pulled the shorter end. In 2000, most of the Chamber of Deputies here approved an execution order. I don't know who the memorial is, it's been 21 years, and from that moment on, the swing has turned to the very other side. This means that the debtor is often chased like a bloated goat for a negative amount and is under such pressure that he pays one execution and creates three new debts, so it turns completely to the other side. And I, please, colleagues, would not like to see us permanently softening the environment in a state that we are going back to the 1990s, and it would be quite threatening. That's why we have a little field trip to what's changed here over the last five years, because the context of change is very important in this area. If those of us who are going to be here in 10 years are going to be here in the moment that we are really going to approve all these simplified extension changes - I apologize for the flat-rate, but in order to shorten it - we might wonder in those 10 years how this is possible, how we could have admitted it, just as we are wondering how it was possible that what was approved in 2000 was approved, because we are watching it now with the current view, not with the 2000 view, when it was necessary to resolve the issue that simply did not pay off debts in the Czech Republic. So here's a certain, let's say, time-limit when you're going to look at it. From 1. 7. 2014 has changed the decree reducing the remuneration of lawyers, thus reducing the costs of legal representation in the recovery of lower claims or collective claims, so that some of the stories that we receive in our emails cannot happen at present. So have I since I was 1. 7. 2015 the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure ensured greater protection for the spouse in the framework of execution. In the same year, the amendment to the Enforcement Order again, so that we know that it is constantly being amended here, continuously in some way we cultivate the environment, so it has become a more gentle execution by expanding the taxive list of things that have been excluded from the enforcement of the decision. So there won't be any more situations at the furniture store where personal things, rings, things like that have been confiscated. [[12.20 hours]] These are all stories between the years, say, 2000, 2002, 2013, 2014. That's the important thing to say. From 1. 7. 2016 people have the opportunity at the post office to use the Central Registration of executions. The question is, which one of them does it? A very significant change that prevents it from lending to anyone here is the Consumer Credit Act, which applies from 1. 12. 2016. The penalty, for example, was very much limited - a maximum of 50 percent of the principal, a maximum of 200,000. It can't be that someone lends 3,000 to someone and wants to enforce 30,000. It extends this law to micro-borrowing, mortgages, etc., but above all limits who can even lend. I mean, we were here when he was lending 60,000, 70,000 companies here. At this point, they are credit companies registered with the Czech National Bank, and there are about hundreds of them. From 1. 4. 2017 with the decree reduced the reward of executors and the cost of transport has been reduced, so I am gradually getting to some arguments around territoriality, so today, I am not saying in the past, but nowadays there can be a situation that the executor is on purpose from the other side of the Republic to artificially incur the costs. From 1. 7. 2017 also applies the first amendment to the insolvency law, where the processing of the proposal was limited by four thousand. That's very important. As has been said here, there are 160,000 people with more than 10 executions. Well, it's obvious that we can stand on our heads here, reflect our ears, but there it is clear that these people, with a probability of playing with certainty, will not be able to repay their commitments. That means, for them, it's the right insolvency, so that's why they're connected containers. We just can't endlessly soften the executions, because then there's no reason to go into insolvency. 1. 6. 2019, second amendment to the insolvency law. That's where the entry barrier went down 30 percent, and for some people, let's say, particularly vulnerable, it's reduced to three years. In the last two years - and this is what my colleague Farský, who is active here, has been talking about - many other things are happening. There's a lot of pressure to stop executions that shouldn't have been ordered at all, based on invalid arbitration clauses. These illegal executions are interfering with us here. But this is on someone else, it's not on us. I don't know what I'm supposed to write to these people when the trial doesn't work, and they blame us politicians. It's just that the law is written somehow, and the moment the decision of the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court is made, the Prime Minister writes a letter, Minister Pelikán writes a letter, the Minister writes two letters, and yet the illegal executions don't stop, so what about it. But now that there's public pressure, it's speeding up. As well - and you know that we stopped the practice of child execution. And again, it's a thing that's been accumulated here in the past. The institute of a protected account was created, so in order not to happen again, when someone has more executions, the first one executes his salary, the second one, and then the guy doesn't have the rent, he has to borrow it, and it's actually an endless carousel. Those are the typical complaints. And that should change now. Unfortunately, we've moved it since 1. 7. I'm looking at a colleague here. Excellent looking, so yes, we moved it from 1. 7. That protected account, I'm sorry, it could have been true before, but it's just another new thing that should have worked here for a long time. As well as motivating people to make those who are in execution and insolvency so that they work to admit income, so we have repeatedly increased the lower limit of the unforgivable amount, both to the debtor and to the dependant. There we even changed the ratio from one quarter to one third of the sum and the calculation, I'm not going to delay here, and the mandatory ratio from two thirds to three quarters, so a very significant leap to keep these people more. Similarly, the upper limit of the unforgivable amount, which was some 16,000, was increased, and by doubling the collision, the threshold for precipitation, we increased it to some CZK 26,000. That means he motivates these people, we motivate those people to make more money because it helps everyone. They're going to make more money, they're going to have more money left, but because the limit, since when it's sent to creditors, it's going to move up, it's going to get more credit, it's going to get more state on social, health and taxes. At this point, let me quote, given the past, part of the conversation - I will then return to it - with Marc Schmitz, President of the International Union of Criminal Executors. He was here at the invitation of the Executor Chamber. Why am I doing this? Because when the Slovak President of the Executor Chamber was here defending territoriality, he was quoted very much, so I would like to quote to balance, including the President of the International Union. Then I will return to him, but as far as the past is concerned, he said to the Hospodářské noviny question: "Yes, it is a historical accumulation of old cases that should be resolved. This was also created in other countries. Sometimes in these cases, creditors themselves no longer insist that the execution continue. That's the past, and it has nothing to do with the future." The reform discussed in the Czech Republic should focus mainly on the future and international standards. And here is the most important thing: if you want investors from abroad to come to your country, you must have a solid executor system, a rule of law. If the debt recovery system doesn't work, creditors leave the executives, they turn to private enforcers, and they're usually not under any control, that's important. So even from this brief list comes one thing, quite clearly, that what we're dealing with here is a thing accumulated from the past, which we are gradually, across the political spectrum, as has already been said here, by the opposition, by the coalition, are trying to change. A few more numbers to make it very clear. In 2011, 936,000 executions were ordered here, last year 408,000. That means we're less than halfway through. That means the trend is clear. Yes, it can affect covid now, but it's outside of us, it's vis maior. Only since 2018 did it happen for the first time that the number of executions completed is higher than the number of newly ordered executions. That actually means what we want to happen a lot sooner. So take it that from 2001 to 2018, the number of newly ordered executions was higher than the number of completed executions. Only 2018, 2019 and 2020, the number of newly opened ones is lower than the number of completed ones, which means that it is decreasing, and that is correct. In other words, what I meant to say is that if we are to make a difference in this, as Marek the Výborný has already said, our measures and proposals should be directed to the past by indirect retroactivity, that is what I will get to the proposal, such as stopping futile executions, so-called gracious summer and so on, or the measures that apply immediately, that is, right after effectiveness. And there - and therefore such a sign - neither of these categories can be included in the principle of territoriality, which I would mention at this moment. [[12.30 hours]] I don't know what it's all about, that territoriality has become such a flagship until I almost say a sacred cow to solve everything, but it's not really, at least for me. And I'll tell you why. First of all, because territoriality solves the situation from now on, not the past, so those accumulated cases at a time when the legislation hasn't been changed, how I did your field trip, we're not going to solve the territoriality, because we're going to solve it mostly with the person who's going to have the first execution, but if someone has a third, fourth, fifth, sixth execution, then what happens? We can't take back the executor's previous cases. That means the guy will still have the four executors before and one new executor based on so-called territoriality. And all of us here, we know what's left in the O.R., that most people who have two or more executions fall into executions, and with Corona, it's gonna get worse. This means that the inertia and the run-up here will be sometime in 10, in 15 years, but we need to help honest debtors, but also honest bailiffs, while we're at it, at this point, not in 10, in 15 years. At the same time, it follows that it is said that a great bailiff is an automatically dishonest bailiff, a small bailiff is honest. I think it is like in different areas and disciplines, like here among the Members, as we have known each other in that time - some who are hardworking, some who are chatty, some who do not speak, some who do not engage, it is just in every area. The difference is obvious, and so is the executors. I don't think the divide clearly applies, that the big one is automatically dryer, and the little one is small because it's honest. I'm not going to name it here specifically, because I don't think it's appropriate, it's not part of the political culture, but there are executors who have been big territorialists who are currently dealing with the problem of prosecution and some other problems at the moment when even a minor claim was dealt with by the sale of immovable property. In other words, this theory doesn't apply that a small bailiff is automatically the honest one, he just can't get there, he can't have more cases. But we're actually going to split it this way with the territoriality. As a colleague of the SPD has already told us to be close to the debtor, where he has a permanent residence, so it's called territoriality. Well, this is already a problem, because according to various statistics - and now we can argue by a percentage - 70 percent of people don't live in a place of residence, they live somewhere else, and how are you going to deal with that? How are you going to deal with this in case he moves, so he's going to change his place of residence? So the debtor from Ostrava will move to Prague, and that bailiff in quotation marks will move there? It's not like that. This means that later the principle of territoriality is inaccurate in itself, because it does not correspond to the real situation. A number of debtors - some I would call professional debtors - have permanent residence in offices, so one doesn't know where this person really lives, where he moves. It reminds me of the basic question as well. We want to digitize everything here. I'd even ask how many debtors are physically going to the executive office to deal with these things, which means whether physical proximity is really necessary. But at the same time, let me say here that that is why Marek Výborný and I proposed the amendment so that every debtor would be able to obtain an execution file in electronic form. In electronic form, they don't have to go anywhere. Still, we had a big debate about how the bailiff's gonna do it, what if it's the old cases, if it's going to scan it, where it's going to send it, and so on. It's nothing black and white. But these are all the changelings that lead to a goal. I don't think the goal is for people to visit, whether they end up in covid or not. The question is also how many people would even be willing to go to the bailiff. The same way if you look at the court versus the classic county. There it is divided according to the judicial districts, not the classic fourteen. The courts are eight, and as you can see, they're pretty big, so maybe there's Moravian-Silesian, Olomouc or Zlinsky County together, so if someone from Jeseník has it, they're going to Carolina, it's some 210 km, so I don't know if it's the territoriality, the proximity. I'm not sure. Motivation of executors. I took the job, I guess you got it, first of all, where the forensic privacy executives competed and where they didn't. At this point, we actually have two basic principles. They are state executors, example: Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Austria, Italy. And then you have private executives: Portugal, Spain, France, Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Czech Republic, Poland and so on. Well, then private executives are based on the wheel, that's the territoriality. And that is only in Slovakia and Hungary. It doesn't work like that anywhere else. It doesn't work like that anywhere else. In a moment, I quote to you the President of the International Union of Criminal Executors, who clearly states that even where territoriality works, it is on the principle of territoriality - the jurisdiction of executors, on the principle of regionality. This means that the region, for example Belgium, is divided into 13 districts, but within them the creditor can already choose, just as it is divided by, for example, whether the creditor is a public body or a private body. It's a lap in public, while the private one can keep voting. Those are the roads I took a year, a year and a half ago, even in some areas, Marek the Výborný wanted to make, but we got - or I got, no matter how much I speak - a header, I'm sure you'll remember my proposal for backwater territoriality, which means that up to 50,000 would be on the principle of territoriality, on the principle of the wheel, over 50,000 would the creditor choose. Back then, I guess, it would have been 80 percent of the cases, 80 percent of the cases! ♪ And in the diary ♪ N published an article: Can It Be Even Worse Than Today? Yes, it can if this amendment is passed. So trying to compromise has turned against me, against us. In the end, the closest I have, frankly, to the wrong territory, which I understand today, Dominik Feri has withdrawn here. But that's based on some kind of elementary logic. When I go back to Slovakia, because everyone points out this as an example - an interesting turning point, that in this we have to imitate Slovakia in some way, and if I had to say it so provocatively, then when there is an argument that official graduations work in Slovakia, we are not supposed to copy it there. I'm always the selectiveness of this - I'm saying it here to shake the fact that I never argue about what's going on abroad, I know that we've had this debate here, like the opening hours for holidays or marriages for everyone, and so on, because it's going to come back as a boomerang - because in one case it's useful, and in the other case it doesn't apply, you're going to keep it quiet. And I'm saying here -- that was a little provocation -- but there were 345 executors in Slovakia at the time of the territoriality, the locality, in 2017, there were 345 executors. Slovakia is half the country, which means there would have to be some 690 executors in our country. At this point, as far as I know, 152, according to other data from 157 execution authorities, that means that the number here is, say, three to four times lower. This means, in connection with some form of backup - I suppose we will approve some - so at that moment the position of Slovak executors and Czechs is completely different, because in our country, in a simple way - mathematically - on the head will fall 3 to 4 times more cases than in Slovakia. So it is also necessary sometimes to compare the context of what is happening in Slovakia, what is happening in our country. [[12.40 hours]] We also don't know today - and I'm sorry that because of the coronavirus we couldn't study the Slovak model further, because many people put it as a role model - so today we don't know if the decline in executions in Slovakia is due to the fact that creditors are just turning to other routes, other channels. If you look, and I've asked the Executive Chamber for data anonymous, so if the territoriality works, it's, don't be mad at me, a tool like that to redistribute the business: 26 executives would increase the number of ideas by 1,000 and more percent. 1,000 and more percent! Of course, on the other hand, it would have dropped significantly again. If this were to be divided by regions based on the number of ideas in 2019, which is 504 000, less than 505 000, it is based on the fact that it would be some 3 217 cases per executor office, but thanks to the fact that there are 35 executors in Prague, it would be 2 368, while in North Bohemia, where there are only 12, 7 354. This means that even in territoriality, the difference between regions would be up to threefold. Does this mean that the bailiff in Prague is, like, less efficient? Or why there is injustice? Or at least for me, it's injustice. And I just don't want to whistle the executors' fight here. I think we should accept here things that concern the debtor's honest intention to pay back, not to go around, and serious creditors who are not loan sharks. And those executors are among those who work with it in some way. At this point, let me not make it seem that my view of territoriality is consistent, to quote a letter that you all received, because it begins with 'Dear Member, honourable Member', to see the context of what the view of territoriality is from another point of view. I will not quote the whole letter, just the part that is crucial to me: "The course of discussion and the fact that over 50 amendments have been tabled to the Government's proposal for an amendment is indicative of the complexity of this issue. I would therefore like to introduce you to our position on this amendment. We are particularly concerned about the implementation of the principle of territoriality and various forms of management concentration, which make it impossible to choose an executor by a creditor. During the 20-year existence of judicial executors, cities and municipalities have experienced various executioners and have finally found long-term cooperation between those who enforce their claims effectively" - effectively - "and at the same time gently, communicate with the community and with debtors." In other words, I'm going to put a little bit of my thought into this: as I say, it can be done so that someone is a successful executor, and it doesn't have to be the dynamite style. "Initiating territoriality or management concentration in the so-called snowman model would force municipalities to abolish working cooperation and serious deterioration of their position in the execution procedure, in the case of management concentration, municipalities would have to deal with dozens of executors instead of one executor. We fear not only the financial but also the social impact, the reduction of the enforcement of claims." This was sent by František Lukl, Chairman of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. It's just that it's not like it's black and white, like it's used here sometimes. I'd be sorry to hear that. The last thing about territoriality that hasn't come out yet is my point that if we have ambition here to approve on Friday things about humanization of mobillary executions, halting futile executions, "graceful summer," a whole series of amendments that colleagues have to deal with, I'm looking at, like, Lukáš Kolářík and the like, the moment the territoriality is approved, what's going to happen? The bailiff - for me, from my point of view - instead of focusing on things that are revolutionary - these are revolutionary changes, I remind you of the introduction of a protected account, the ban on child executions and so on, it all goes sideways - so actually, if territoriality were accepted, the bailiffs would largely ask themselves the question to which they were dealing with themselves. The big ones would have to release, logically, and the little ones, as has already been said, 26 first executors would have an increase in the idea by 1,000 and more percent, and they would have to recruit. So instead of dealing with the things we're dealing with in these changers, we'd be dealing with personnel security for the executive office. And that sounds like a shame to me, because there's a lot of changes there, there's gonna be a lot of pressure on the bailiffs, that's what we need to say. At this point, let me tell you -- and I'm going to move into the changes that we're proposing here -- to quote the e-mail of a person very briefly, who even said that he doesn't mind me quoting his full name, because he's already desperate. It's the look of a natural person who's a creditor, because we're constantly painting this black and white world that you know I've been saying from the start that I don't like it, that means what a debtor, that innocent victim, what a creditor, that loan shark. Sometimes it is, it's got to be said, but sometimes it just isn't. Sometimes a creditor is a person, a natural person who may have provided a service, did not get paid for it, or rented an apartment, or lent to someone, and at that time they themselves get into secondary insolvency and those creditors, the natural persons, become debtors. So this person writes - several times we wrote - writes to the Executor Chamber: "Dear Chamber, on this basis I have handed over to the Enforcement Office an application for recovery of 23,000" - the file is filed under some number. "There has not been a recovery of the amount due to this day. Any information about the obligation that I received" - which I obtained, so that the creditor still ensures it - "I was passing on to the competent" - I will not read again, I keep a certain decorum - "to the competent executor. He's got three more mandatory orders from the last hearing. So I have questions: Since 2016, you haven't solved anything in my case. What am I supposed to do as a legitimate person? Is he in office? What's the office supposed to do? Or is he just waiting for information in the office from the creditor? Do you want me to make another announcement to the court? I do not believe that the compulsory lives only from the benefits of the Office of Labour in Hustopae. I'm sure he has to work somewhere black because he has a permanent residence at the city office. What is the enforcement of the law for ordinary people when they are in a position of creditor? Thank you for all your questions, specific answers." Mr. Vladimír Kočiš. I asked if I could name him, so I could name him. There's a lot of cases like this. So I want to illustrate, let's just say, nicely approve the changes that are going to humanize the environment, and at the same time not to harm the interests of the serious, I underline, serious creditors. [[12.50 hours]] I would like to quote once again from the President of the World Union of Judicial Executors, where Hospodářské noviny asked him about the situation in Slovakia, because this is a big model here. And the example: "The changes in Slovakia are" - according to him, these are not my words please nicely - 'are a step backwards, especially that the creditor does not have a free choice of executor. If you look at how many cases the executors have received from the creditors and how many they're getting from the court now, you see a huge decline. I think it's because the creditors have lost faith in the bailiffs. Some of them don't work well or aren't very motivated, and creditors will wonder why to put something into execution when I can't choose an executor. Where there is motivation for a private executive who knows that even if he does his best, he will never get more cases, it doesn't make sense." And so on. This is an example of this - I hate to quote this way, but I know that at the moment the Slovak president, who praised the system in Slovakia, was with him a lot of interviews and a lot of quotes, so it would be fair for another guest of the Executor Chamber to be quoted here in the Czech Republic. Now about what makes sense for me, he briefly described it to Marek Výborný. Seven deputies from nine clubs are signed there. I assume that if the changeling of Lukáš Kolářík is approved, reducing the reward of the executor, or the amount of 10 executions in a relationship with one bailiff - one debtor in five, so it will also be supported by colleagues from the Pirate Party, so it would find support across. I'm glad for that. And that's stopping futile executions, backpackers, for principal up to CZK 1,500. There I think this is a beautiful example of how we can take measures that are balanced on all sides. That means there will be a futile execution for the debtor, who will be removed. Now maybe he can't stop all the executions he's got. It was a complaint that if someone had 10 executions and had three to 1,500 of them, he had seven left. Well, I don't know, I still think it's better to have a place of ten seven, but it's a step forward, because the opposite is to forgive everything. At the same time, something will be sent to the creditor. It's not possible to nationalize the claim and take it. And as has already been said, it is not a form of sending money to someone, but it is a form of tax deduction or tax deduction. 30 per cent of 1,500, a maximum of 450 crowns, so that those who trade in those claims and are somewhere in tax havens don't fall into it, so that someone might feel that money is being sent somewhere across the border. And the third leg, they're executors, often so hated, some rightly, others don't, that's the flat rate, I don't like it, like everyone in politics doesn't work and so on, it doesn't work either. So they would get 30% of the completed flat-rate expenses, which is CZK 1,050. As has been said, in the "graceful summer" we have together with our colleague Výborný 750 crowns, which is based on costs - watch out - only to stop the execution, which is 740 + VAT. We had my colleague and I send the costs of a three-year execution, and that was, if I recall correctly, 5,000 or 6,000. So it's not there. Just so we have that dimension. So something stops for the debtor, the creditors send a piece of the principal, and the bailiff gets part of the finished costs, part of it, and even that's what we got beat up for. In order to dispel any doubts, I say here on the microphone that I support the amendment by Lukáš Kolářík that the ratio of stopping is not 1: 10, because there are typically black rides, that execution is conducted twenty times in relation to one mandatory one, so that the reward is twenty times 1 050, but no more 10. He's designing three and five at the switchboard, and we've agreed gentlemanly to compromise five. That means all the doubts about what's going on here will be scattered. When you look - and it is a sensitive matter, the remuneration of executors - there is a caselaw of the Constitutional Court that implies that the costs of execution stopped because of the debtor's lack of property - while paradoxically speaking - are borne by the debtor. In this case, the bailiffs would stop the futile execution - if we wanted to - and would send the debtors the costs that, according to this caselaw, are CZK 7,865. So that would be a paradox, so we would stop the futile execution and send the costs of the suspended execution. This has aroused great passion. I think that's a balanced proposal. As a contrast, I would like to briefly imagine the proposal that he sent back at the time - we are talking about a year old thing here, because it goes on for a very long time - the Czech mandatory association, which then came up with a proposal to stop the futile execution, not three years in vain - the stopping of three years in vain execution, and still negative - so that it will take five years and it will not be bounded by those 1 500, and that is if the debtor pays 100 percent of the completed costs to the executioner, that is 3 500, so 3.5 times as much as we propose in this, and say four times as much as we propose, or five times as nearly as much as we propose in the'merciful summer'. There is, of course, the question of where would that person get it? If something's a waste of execution, he doesn't pay his dues, and suddenly he'd find the money and give it only to the bailiff? All of a sudden, the creditor's coming out of it. The question of logic, who will pay it and why the state should pay it. I'll answer that. We're having fun here - and Minister Marie Benešová - I was now careful not to tell Marie Terezie as one in Events, comments - so she asked about the microphone. We talked about this several times with the Minister of Finance, and we are promised in the debate at the club that the 200, 300 million is there, because it is actually an investment of the kind of state, because people from that system that are in the grey zone today will return to the system and pay more than 200, 300 million crowns to the state on social, health and taxes. But for me, the main argument is other than this. We want to return people to the system from the gray zone, we don't want them to be there forever. It won't help them, creditors or the state. But above all, it is because the State collects several hundred million to billion per year on VAT from the activities of executors and insolvency administrators. This means that over 20 years, it has chosen here a hundredfold what should be returned now at the moment when we are somehow repairing the system that was set up in 2000. Which reminds me of my efforts to include this particular activity, this legal activity leading to recovery, in a lower rate of VAT, so that we as the Czech Republic can get an exemption, which would make it a tenth less expensive - either for the debtor or a tenth more creditor, depending on how we look at it. Simply and well, ladies and gentlemen. I think - and I hope we agree - that the world is not black and white. I am in favour of measures that will go back to the past through the principle of indirect retroactivity, or they will apply immediately. I don't think territoriality leads to this. I am closest to the principle of false territoriality, which my colleague Dominik Feri unfortunately withdrew. [[13.00 hours]] And when today, yesterday, there was an e-mail to the Union of Czech and Moravian Housing Cooperatives to see it from a different perspective, I was impressed by the graph. Share of non-recoverable receivables that have quadrupled over the last five years, 12.8% in 2014 and almost 50 percent in 2019. It means, here it's just like, I don't know how to say it - like water. You plug it up somewhere, and it'll find its way somewhere else. If we overdo it -- the swing on one side, it just breaks out on the other side, and new injustices arise. That is why I am in favour of these proposals, such as stopping futile bailouts with some compensation, in order to be balanced -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u19	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna have to interrupt you. It's 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u20	[[He is turning to the President.]] No, it's here in 14 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u21	I don't know about that arrangement. And I'd just argue that we put points on the 14.30. I don't know about any arrangement that means we'll be talking in 14 hours. So I'm interrupting the House of Deputies. I'm alerting everyone to the committee meeting. The Organising Committee will meet in five minutes, and we will continue at 14.30 for the fixed point 310.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-008-336.u22	Have a good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As the first point of the afternoon program we have a firmly placed point and it is
