ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u1	53. Members of Válková Válkova, Jana Pastuchová, Lenka Dražilová, Pavla Golasowská, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Marek Novák, Alena Gajdůšková and Eva Matyášová for the issue of a bill on the granting of a lump sum to persons sterilized in violation of the law /house press 603/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 603/1. I ask that the proposal put forward as the appellant of Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for giving me the floor. Dear colleagues, first of all, thank you very much for allowing this press to be presented and discussed, so that it can possibly be passed on to the next reading, in which we submitrs hope. It is such a demonstration, let me at least one general sentence at the beginning, that when it comes to righting wrongs and the injustice is far back, all political forces can join together. It is not only the ANO or KDU-ČSL movement that is signed here in second place on behalf of Mrs Pavla Golasowská, but it is also the TOP 09 - Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Marek Novák, Alena Gajdůškovášková and so on. These are people who realize that injustices can always be corrected, and we, as sovereigns, as legislators, have this possibility in the field of legislative. Past governments have repeatedly tried to open up this issue, and most of it has failed to conclude that either estimates were very vague and unaccompanied by sufficient RIA analysis and economic cost estimates, and no one wanted to pay half a billion or amounts that cannot be calculated, first. And secondly, with some generosity to correct injustices, sometimes legal aspects have escaped. We, as submitters, have tried very hard not to miss this, because we were confronted with what happened in the previous experiments, and I hope we succeeded. However, the proposal had some errors, or the proposal that we are presenting and discussing here, had some errors, which were also highlighted by the Government's position, even though it was neutral. I would like to mention the most important ones here at least with a short list. The government has pointed out that the Office of the Government will not be the place to settle claims of damaged women who have been damaged by sterilization - and I must point out here - which has been carried out either under duress or contrary to legislation, or in circumstances and situations that violate fundamental human rights, in this case free consent. It should be pointed out here that in this respect, it was a far more appropriate place to assess the legitimate claims, their legitimacy, the office or authority, the department closest to it. After not easy negotiations, the Ministry of Health succeeded in convincing the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health turned out to be prepared and agreed to take over this role, which was then reflected in the amendment I tabled a year ago under number 4217 and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. In addition, the other flaw that was raised by the proposal was the absence of amendments to the related regulations, and in this area, too, the amendment that I tabled a year ago was corrected. All the required amendments have already been incorporated there. Let me just point out in the introduction - and I have little time, so I really limit myself only to the most important - that the set conditions may seem too strict, it will have to prove the right. However, I think that this too is important in order for the pass through the Chamber of Deputies to be higher than in previous years. Those vaguely set conditions, which were previously a brake on successful discussions, really led to the dislike of the Members to recommend such a proposal until further reading and successfully approved. So, if there is a critical comment here, and it may be that they will be difficult to enforce or demonstrate the justification of their claims, then, in turn, they can be relied upon to have, if they do not demonstrate them, with the Ministry of Health - and that was the third amendment contained in the amendment - to contact the administrative courts, which will then definitively assess their entitlement. Thank you for your attention. I think that the not entirely uninteresting explanatory report, which also contains historical analysis, gives sufficient justification as to why the proposal was submitted and under what circumstances. So I'm just going to limit myself to this brief word, because otherwise we wouldn't have discussed this press in three hours, and I'm sorry that my exposé wasn't more detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr František Elfmark. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, as has already been said here, the Government discussed this law and agreed on 1 November 2019 when it expressed its neutral position on the proposal. This printing is aimed at persons on whom sterilization was carried out within the meaning of the medical procedure according to the then effective Act No. 20/1966 Coll., on the care and health of the people, in connection with implementing directives of the Ministry of Health. The law focuses on specific issues representing sterilization procedures performed on persons who were not themselves authorised to give consent to sterilization. They are persons who are minors, persons who are deprived of legal capacity or whose legal capacity has been restricted by a court decision and persons who have suffered from mental illness and who have been sterilized for these very reasons. The law aims at victims in the timeline during the period of communism with overlap until 1991, when even then there are theories that state welfare authorities actively influenced the reproductive behaviour of women through formal and informal pressure and motivation to undergo sterilization. According to the survey, the number of victims or victims compensated is estimated to be around 7,000. I find this number alarming. The practice of sterilization contrary to law is undoubtedly an intervention in the physical and psychological integrity of a person protected in private law as part of universal personal rights. Our parliamentary club condemns this behavior in times past, and we agree that the victims deserve satisfaction for violating their personal rights. As rapporteur, I am asking the Chamber of Deputies to vote in favour of this House press and to release this House press under number 603 to second reading, and at the same time as rapporteur, I would like to propose a short discussion for 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u5	[[This is Mrs Wark from the rapporteur's desk.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, I'll open the debate now. Like this, if I was being very benevolent, if you want to do a little bit of reenactment, then you'd get off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Just so it doesn't escape your attention that the estimate of the maximum number of victims compensated is 400. The 7,000 is in total, these are also those who are no longer entitled, died, and so on - 7,000 is the set that was probably damaged, but potentially compensated, if it proves its claim, is 400.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u7	I am opening up a general debate in which I have three Members, but for some strange reason I also have three factual points - Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mr Jak Skopeček and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. So now I don't know if that's the point. [[Voices off the microphone.]] So I'll erase them. I'd rather not waste someone who protests here. Mrs Golasowská will stand out and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that this bill has come to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I will also try to be more brief, but I have some important things to mention here. Indemnification of victims of illegal sterilization would solve a very serious violation of human rights and, at the same time, would be a clear signal for our society not to repeat similar eugenic monstrosities in our society. Hundreds of people who have been sterilized without informed consent since 1966 remain in the Czech Republic without reparation. Many who were sterilized before 1989 died without receiving any compensation. The limitation period during which your claims for violation of personal rights can be claimed in civil proceedings are three years, and similar is the possibility of criminal law. For this reason, the vast part of those who were sterilized without informed consent has never been compensated for this injury. Exceptionally, some of the plaintiffs who were sterilized at a later time have succeeded in individual court proceedings. And now maybe a little bit of history. In 2005, there was the first comprehensive report on this issue, namely the Ombudsman's final opinion, which stated that, in fact, in all cases which the Ombudsman evaluates, it cannot be said that women agreed to sterilization or that they were sufficiently informed of the nature and consequences of such intervention so that their consent was legally relevant. In 2009, the Czech Government expressed regret over the sterilization of people without informed consent. In 2012, legislation on informed consent to sterilization is definitively adopted in the amendment to the Health Services Act. In 2015, a compensation law was created, a substantive intention submitted by the Minister of Human Rights to the government, unfortunately not approved by the government. Problems that require solutions: First, the victims age, many have died, and the reparation has not lived. Next, it's victim destigmatization. There is still a lack of public awareness and understanding of the nature of the damage and damage suffered by these victims. Individual legal proceedings are not a solution for the vast majority of the victims, given the limitation periods and the lack of legal representation funds for an uncertain outcome dispute. The compensation process should include an amount of compensation similar to those paid by the government to the applicants who have entered into amicable agreements in the context of an action before the European Court of Human Rights or to those corresponding to individual compensation granted under Czech law. The bill proposes 300,000 per person, which is actually the amount of compensation. As Mrs Válková has already mentioned here, it would be about 400 people, which means that the total cost of compensation would be CZK 120 million and their payout would be spread over at least five years. For at least 14 years, the Government of the Czech Republic has also repeatedly called on all competent bodies involved in the supervision of human rights at the United Nations, such as the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women or the Human Rights Council. I would also like to mention that the victims were also men and, often, patients and patients in psychiatric facilities. I ask very much for the support of this proposal and for us to send it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u9	Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová's factual comment and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared in a general debate. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u10	Thank you for the floor. I know that we are in a time crisis, so I would just like to briefly express my support for this law, because I think it is a big debt that we should pay back and settle what has happened in the past. I am very glad that this bill is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u11	Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear and prepare Mrs Monika Jarošová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u12	Mr President, colleagues, my colleague, dear speaker, at the beginning of the search for justice for sterilized women, Dr Otakar Motejl was the first Czech Ombudsman. I consider it important to mention this because it was a great authority. Of course, I will support this bill and I believe that the law is primarily about justice and that we, colleagues and colleagues, will be able to secure such justice by final approval of this law by law for the remaining fraction of the sterilized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u13	This is Monika Jarošová's last envoy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will address the issue of involuntary sterilization of women and their possible compensation for which almost 40 women's organisations lobby. The question of alleged involuntary sterilization and possible compensation for women affected by them is a very sensitive issue. More than 30 years have passed since the procedures were performed, so it is difficult to determine whether sterilization was voluntary, which was carried out with the written consent of the woman, or involuntary without consent. This is a very long time for us to 100% determine which women at the time of the procedure chose this method as a form of contraception, and today they claim that they were pushed under pressure and were forced to sterilize or even consented to it. The appellants of this law claim that the conditions for compensation are met despite the fact that the woman was granted a social benefit to agree to exercise. But if she agreed to the procedure, that is, she signed informed consent and then received some benefits for it, I see no reason to compensate. The financial motivation at that time, on the basis of free will, cannot be the reason for granting further financial compensation today. The grant of the benefit is rather evidence that the woman was duly informed of the nature of the performance, agreed with it, and even recovered financial compensation, which leads, among other things, to the assumption that women who saw the source of income in the birth of the children agreed to the compensation, and therefore the state replaced them with this levy. Making these cases worthy of further financial compensation has neither logic nor moral justification. I don't understand if women who have really been sterilized without consent aren't sued immediately and sometimes waited for 40 years. After all this time, it will be almost impossible to prove that doctors then acted in violation of legislation. By adopting this law, we would confirm, among other things, that there was a state-sponsored forced sterilization, and it would open the door to further false speculation that it continued after 1989. Therefore, those women should not have waited 30 years or more and should have brought the lawsuit immediately after 1989 if they felt that they had been sterilized without consent and that they were being wronged. [[14.50 hours]] In assessing whether sterilization has taken place in breach of law, it is also necessary to rely on the legislation in force at that time, namely the Law on the care of the health of the people. According to him, sterilization could only be performed with consent or at his own request, there was no other option. The legislation then prescribed the consent of the person concerned as a basic condition for the conduct of sterilization from the outset. It is a directive of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic dated 17 December 1971, which was also approved by the sterilization commission. Most often sterilization was recommended by doctors in multiple births by a C-section, when it was evident that a further birth would endanger the mother's life. It was often used in other health problems that might occur during the next pregnancy, and it was always approved by the sterilization commission. As I have already said, proving would be difficult, I think rather impossible. And, as has been said, today there are only 400 people who have to prove their claim in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u15	I have no further application for the general debate. I'll see if anyone checks in. No one's reporting, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if the appellant and rapporteur are interested in the final word. [[Rapporteur: No. - Yes.]] Do you? The plaintiff, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u16	With the exception of the last speech by my colleague Monika Jarošová - with whom I dare not agree, by your means, Mr Vice-President, because it is not that the claim procedure is simple, and is amended in Section 6 of the bill - I thank everyone else for expressing their support. I would like to ask you to agree to this proposal and to submit it to the next reading, where, of course, everyone will still have the opportunity to intervene in the legislative process and in the final form of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-005-053.u17	We will now consider this because I have no motion to return or refuse, a motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the motion to discuss the petition committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anybody, so I'm gonna go on. [[Gong. No one's coming to the ballroom.]] My gong doesn't have a response, I see. So we will proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the petition committee as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Voting number 222, 98 Members registered, for 77, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the petition committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see a suggestion. So we will be voting on one more proposal, and this is the rapporteur's proposal by Mr František Elfmark to shorten the time limit for committee discussions from 60 to 20 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 223, 99 Members registered, for 66, against 20. The proposal to shorten to 20 days was accepted. This concludes the first reading of this proposal. We have another press.
