ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u1	331. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German Document 984/ - third reading The position at the rapporteur's table is already taken by Minister of Justice Marie Benešová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 984/2, which was delivered on 11 February 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 984/3. Before the start of the third reading debate, I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking. Do you give up this option, or do you wish to perform, Madam Secretary? Yes. So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u2	Good morning. I have already introduced this government bill here, and I just want to remind you what the purpose of this government amendment is. In general, the aim is to increase the protection of children in legal relations and strengthen the role of legal representatives in the legal conduct of minors. It also aims to prevent the emergence of so-called child debts and is actually an alternative proposal to the original proposal of Members Valachová, Nacher and others. It was a print of 456. Of course, I agree with this government proposal. There are a number of amendments that I will comment on specifically when they are voted and tabled here. So I guess that's all for starters for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u3	Thank you. I am opening the debate and Mrs Valachová is enrolled in it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, Dear Government, fellow Members, we are now discussing the last reading of the amendment to the Civil Code, which is intended to prohibit child debts and to prevent the execution of child debts in the Czech Republic in the twenty-first century. Children's debts are something that, of course, we do not want in our country, and it is surprising that only now we have managed to find a match to ban child's debts. In order to specifically imagine what situations will be banned and what situations will not be possible next, and I am glad that we have reached this agreement, I would like to recall a few specific situations which are precisely a ban on child debts, which the Ministry of Justice and Minister Benešová are presenting and following up on the parliamentary initiative of my and other Members, as mentioned, will prevent, and will also prevent, the execution of child debts. These specific stories are mapped out by various NGOs dealing with the protection of children's rights, and the protection of children's rights is also what this is about in particular. [[9.30 hours]] The first situation concerns the child's acquisition of inheritance debts. Pavel died when he was 12 years old, a father of whom by law was the sole heir. His father was loaned to several non-bank companies, and his debt was 90 000 higher than the value of his assets. As a legal representative, Pavel did not refuse this inheritance, so without his knowledge he found himself in debt, which had grown to more than CZK 210,000 in interest until adulthood. Different situation. Petra entered a children's home two years ago, and it was then discovered that 18,000 crowns were being enforced in the execution proceedings because of a fine for an invalid ticket from her age of seven. Moreover, due to its low age, the amount may still rise. Another situation. Liddy's father committed suicide. Shortly thereafter, when she came to the foster family, she was found to have two executions against her, both for driving black into the school accompanied by the mother, from the time Lidka was eight and twelve years old. The total amount of debt recovered is now more than 28,000, most of which account for the costs of execution proceedings. The last is the situation of Petra, who was only cared for by her mother throughout her childhood, by her grandfather. Her father never expressed interest in her, nor was she listed on her birth certificate. When she was 15 years old, Mother became seriously ill, two years later, after a year in hospital, Mother Petra died. It was at this time that a completely absurd story began to be born. At a time when her mother struggled with an insidious illness, Petra received two tickets for a black ride. She handed the fines to her grandfather, who lived with him, and he paid these fines. However, he did not notice that the call also stated that he himself should calculate the interest on the late payment and these also paid. Follow-up execution to the child was conducted not just for unpaid fare, but for a few ten crowns of unpaid interest on late payments. What is important is all the proceedings in which the final decisions were taken against her, without her knowledge, could not comment on anything, all ended up with executions. In addition, each of them is managed by a different bailout, which each separately requires not only the payment of principal, but also the costs of execution, which exceed the original amount many times. Colleagues and fellow Members, Madam Secretary, the reason I mentioned these specific cases is simple. The bill that we are going to approve today, I believe, in final reading, addresses all these situations for children under the age of 13. Next time, as legislators, we will show that debt is not incurred and that supervision is to be exercised by the parent. Within 15 years we, as Members, will be able to show that it is not possible to apply a contractual fine against such a child. In the same way, we will show that, until the age of any liability for such acquired debts, i.e. from the age of 13 to the age of 13, they can be applied only to the property and to the amount of property that the child has. I think that all these steps are fair, they balance what has been often called an octopus so far, which allows for the execution of child debts, as well as the legitimate interests of creditors where such commitments and debts to, for example, older children, even underage children, would be appropriate. Similarly, this law strengthens the procedural position of such children in the proceedings and also strengthens the rights of other legal representatives, such as foster parents, to respond to the very situations that I have described. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in addition to these rules, which follow up on the draft law of Parliament, and which is therefore involved in the Government's bill of justice, several changes have also been made during the House's discussions, which the constitutionally-legal committee has supported. I am the most valuable one here at the moment - and thank you for the approval of the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the support of all colleagues across the political spectrum - I consider that the effectiveness of Act 1. 7. 2012 all fair rules that prohibit child debts and prevent inhuman child executions will be able to be relied upon by all, all, to whom such unfair child debts arose until the moment when 1. 7. 2021, they were 21 years old. So all of these child's debts that have been applied in the manner and practices that I have described to you in individual examples, we will correct them with retroactive effect. I consider this to be very important, because, in my opinion, we never should have admitted child debts in the Czech Republic, and I am glad that we are at least in agreement so far that we must find a way to remedy it, and I believe that we will ban child debts this morning. For the last time, I will mention an amendment which has not yet received support and concerns the possibility that our courts, including the Constitutional Court, can, as they have judged in the long term, forgive, waive the recovery of certain debts which are of such a nature and from which very often, in practice, are not abandoned, let's say, voluntarily by the creditors' parties - often they are public institutions - with reference to proper asset management. This change has not yet received support, but I, as a person who initiated changes in the ban on child debt more than three years ago, understand the good intention of this proposal and I will personally support it. If it fails, I am ready to look for solutions, perhaps more perfect, perhaps more legislatively clean, how to achieve such a result. Thank you, colleagues, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u5	Thank you. I ask the Excellent Member's word, Mr Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. Let me also briefly comment on the content of this amendment to the Civil Code, the Civil Code, which is, as I think here, already said in the second reading, the great debt, the debt of us legislators towards elementary justice and respect for what is absolutely standard and common elsewhere in civilized countries not only Europe, namely that there is no way for a child who has no chance of defending himself in any way, to expose us to a situation where, at 18 years of age, he starts his life with a backpack, the burden of debt, when he learns about this burden, about this backpack, when he is eighteen years old, and somewhere in the mailbox, he is told that the debt that was often made absurdly in his early childhood without the child's knowledge is enforced by the form of execution. [[9.40 hours]] I would also like to refer, in this situation, to the explanatory report of this House's press, 984. It is very precise and detailed. There is also a comparative comparison with other countries, not only European countries. The Justice Department has done a very thorough job of prep here. Indeed, there you can find comparisons on this issue, on the issue of acquiring maturity and on the rights and obligations of children. However, let me also remind you that to date we have stumbled a little bit, because exactly in the month - April 5, 2021 - it will be two years when colleagues Jan Bartošek, Kateřina Valachová, Patrik Nacher, Lukáš Kolařík, presented the House press to which they proposed to address this issue. The Prime Minister was then upset at the government's meeting about what a mess it is; I quote literally his words that something similar is possible in the Czech Republic. However, then there was some agreement at the level of the government and the Ministry of Justice that it was necessary to prepare a high-quality legislative solution that would address not only the issue of debt, but also the acquisition of children's age and rights and obligations related to it and the resulting one. That's why the whole process got a little carried away. However, I am glad that we are at the end of it today, at least here at the first stage on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I consider it really very, very important. While the situation has changed partly, there are judges of both the courts and the Constitutional Court. Typically, it can be pointed out, for example, that the Constitutional Court has made it clear that it is unacceptable to recover debts for municipal waste charges that cities enforce after children, fees that have not been paid. This has already been judged, yet some courts still do not respect this, and the decision-making practice of the courts in this sense is not uniform. It is therefore important that we build these things completely for sure by this arrangement that we are discussing today. Colleague Kateřina Valachová has given the stories here, I could continue. There are organizations, for example, here and now, who are actively working for these children and where you can read the stories. Indeed, sometimes reason remains as it is possible to do something similar in the Czech Republic in the 21st century. You know, the problem often concerns those who have already gotten into a situation that they can't do for themselves, which they haven't done for themselves. It is very often, or I would say almost majority, children in children's homes, which, in a situation where they are then to stand on their own feet at 18 years of age, in a situation that is not at all easy for them, because they do not have support in a functional and functioning family, so when, for example, with the support of various non-profit organizations, with the support of the children's home itself, they get some education so that they can stand on their own path, so at that point the state really taps their fingers with the fact that there was some debt in their childhood, at the time of their 18 years of age, the debt was not paid, and at this time often from very small principal increases, the huge increase of the accessories, the various periodic penalty payments, the interest, and the like, this debt after those children who do not have any income at the start of 18 years is dramatically enforced. And I am not talking about cases where these children, for example, lose money from orphans' pensions, for example, which were to be saved and that were to allow them at least a little smoother start in life, and which at that point are confiscated as part of their executions. I don't think it's right or moral, not at all. Colleagues, let me ask not only for the support of the entire press, but also for the support of the amendment that the rapporteur, Kateřina Valachová, spoke about at the end. It is an amendment under House document 7330, which I have tabled together with my colleague Jan Farskýý and which responds to that practice, which unfortunately is still very common with us, until it is not 100%, that is to say, but unfortunately it is still true with us when public institutions, municipalities, cities, libraries, transport companies and others, simply institutions with the state's share of fear that they might break the rules for the administration of public property, that they would violate the rules of the fair and proper economy, fear these executions, stop these debts. It's just because they're worried they might face criminal prosecution. It's not really true, it's already very clear and possible. In these cases, it is possible to waive the recovery of these debts without the institution violating the rule of law. However, these concerns remain here. We believe that it would be appropriate in this amendment to build the matter for sure, and therefore in the transitional provisions, or not in the body of the law, that is, we here introduce a new transitional provision, which applies only to those debts that arose before this law came into force. We're still talking here, maybe the Minister will correct me, about some almost 5,000 cases of child debt in the Czech Republic, that's how the number moves, so we're suggesting that if there is forgiveness of such debt by public institutions, so that this public institution doesn't interfere with the rule of property management obligations. This is the subject of our amendment. It's going backwards because the future is dealing with the proposal itself, and those situations just won't happen again. But we still have cases here, and there are nearly 5,000 that would be appropriate to allow this to be done. By the way, these are often debts that will never be recovered anyway. It is usually clear that they are unenforceable, but yet individual organizations, institutions fear, for unjustified reasons, but are afraid to stop these executions, thereby allowing those young people or people who are at the start of the course to get rid of the burden they carry. On the constitutional-legal committee the proposal was widely discussed, there was a concern that if we accepted this, that there would be some kind of interpretation and contrario, that is, in all other cases, it would be true that this is a violation of the rules of administration, of good governance of public property. However, this interpretation, even after consulting lawyers, does not seem justified because it could lead to other absurd interpretations. Let me give you one example for all of us, it's about marriage. If a stranger's husband stays in the territory of the Czech Republic, he gets a residence permit if the marriage is real and not fake. At the same time, the interpretation is that when a child comes out of a marriage, this marriage is real and is not fake. If we used that interpretation discussed and contrario, we would be in a completely absurd situation to conclude by this interpretation that every marriage where there is no child is fake. I suppose we all agree here that this interpretation is absurd, and thus, by analogy, this interpretation cannot be applied to the situation which is the subject of our amendment. Indeed, this only addresses the issue of child debtors. [[9.50 hours]] And I would like to ask you, in the final vote on support and this amendment, to take both important steps, both forward-looking steps, but not to leave behind the past that is not clearly addressed by the legislation approved today. I say again in fact, this is possible today, we are merely building it in the context of transitional provisions, that is, the remission and waiver of recovery or any other action by the creditor towards the liquidation or reduction of the conquest of the debt incurred before the date of entry into force of this law to a person who, at the time of the creation of the debt, has not acquired full jurisdiction, is not considered to be a breach of the obligations relating to the management of the assets. Thank you for your support both to the Minister and to you, colleagues and colleagues, and I believe that the result will be no longer possible in the Czech Republic for the practice of children who themselves, often in the difficult situation of children's homes and the like, then start their lives with a burden of execution, so that we will finally and definitely put an end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u7	Thank you and I will ask Mr Nacher to prepare Mr Kolářík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, nice Friday morning. Madam Minister, Mr President, fellow Members, I think today is a very important day when we will end the practice where children's debts exist in the Czech Republic not only in children or almost adults, who are between 15 and 18, but also in children's debts. I would like to remind you here, however true it is that the material we have here - and I remind you that it's actually three prints, it's historically three prints, and then I'm going to go back to them to do a field trip - as long as it takes, as my colleague here said, two years, so I'd like to thank the Ministry of Justice, because we're talking about the practice that's been here in the Czech Republic for twenty years. One more - 20 years. It's like I was upset about the electoral bill here yesterday. It's been working here for 20 years, and it's been dealt with significantly in this parliamentary term. In order not to imply that what we were able to discuss in January or December, we are now discussing at the beginning of March, so: we are discussing the matter that arose during this parliamentary term, and we are correcting it. Once again, we've been fixing the incredible thing that's been going on here for 20 years. Twenty years! The fact that it went on like this is also due to very significant covid laws, extraordinary meetings, etc. We came here two years ago with a press of 456, where we basically wanted to set the responsibility of only a legal representative in a very simple way. It was a parliamentary initiative, and at that time we agreed that, even after some criticism by constitutional lawyers and the position of the Ministry of Justice, which said that this general objective was to be identified and supported, however, it is necessary to deal with appropriate ways of achieving the stated objective by legislative means, so that we do not spill the baby with the bathtub, literally in this case. We are afraid that the proposal tabled does not affect those areas to which the appellant wants to target materially. We also do not consider the proposal to be a conceptual solution to the issue of the legal conduct of minors or the possible negative consequences of this negotiation. That's why a broad agreement was made to create government material - that's the one we're discussing right now, 984. However, I would like to say here that we haven't slept here in the meantime. We've solved a matter that I would have timed in the past. We accepted press 493 as part of an insolvency amendment, where we had debts incurred in childhood, i.e. before the acquisition of the 18th year of age, placed these debtors among the particularly vulnerable, with the possibility of debting them within three years without fulfilling those percentages. Meaning, in the meantime, we've solved the past. I also recall that both in this parliamentary term and in the previous period the costs of execution have been significantly reduced, which is also related to this. I have a table here, I'm not going to burden you with it, I don't want to delay where the costs in 2012 were almost CZK 824 in the recovery process, today we are significantly below half. We have adopted several insolvency amendments, we stop gradually, not always with success, illegal execution. We've increased the upper and lower limit of unforgivable amounts, and now we've got five hundred and forty-five here - an amendment to the execution order. So the cultivation, it all has to do with the fact that stopping children's debts, the termination of this practice, is in some sense working for, say, the last six years. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal, which I have already divided at second reading into thirteen, to fifteen, to eighteen years old - it has already been described in detail here by Kateřina Valachová, that is to say, under thirteen years of responsibility or incapacity from the point of view of delicate eligibility, except for those exceptions, within fifteen years of the ban on contractual fines, and at 18 years of age the debt can only be the amount of the child's property that he has prior to the acquisition of his right - a matter that we are dealing with in the future. That means the way we're gonna look at those debts. We are also looking at the second part of this amendment, the OSŘ, in the future, which means that it will no longer be possible for a judgment to be passed on or for recognition, so we are also changing this part. Even in this case, the protection of these children will be much, much bigger. But what I would say is that it is heading to the present and what we can change is partly addressed in this amendment by colleagues of Výborný - Farský. Now I'm not going to discuss whether it's perfectly legislatively well written or not, it's about the essence. Because when we first discussed this here two years ago, I managed to drag this issue of child debt into municipal policy. We adopted a resolution on 25 April 2019, where we entrusted the Council of the Capital City of Prague - coalitions, oppositions voted for it - to resolve and stop child debts and set up the system so that it would not happen again. At that time, we found that the magistrate itself did not register any ongoing execution of persons under the age of 15, but in the Transport Company these executions were in the number of some 170. Part of this was the recommendation that claims on persons under 15 years of age should primarily be dealt with by their own forces, i.e. internal employees, and that business companies where Prague owns a stake would also enforce them by their own employees, and that the amount of principal was not raised by the costs of recovery by external entities, for example through executions. It means, it was a recommendation so that the condition didn't recur. However, what came into practice was that, after the adoption of this resolution, the Transport Undertaking was then referred to the Transport Undertaking, so The transport company wanted the so-called commercial order from the point of view of the proper care obligation, only then were these executions stopped. That's the practice. Then it followed other cities, other city companies and so on. In other words, we can adopt a standard that will apply from 1. 7. 2021 and stop child execution, but at the same time we can accept part or change part where we allow urban companies, cities, municipalities to stop the current execution without worrying that someone will attract them, that they are not dealing with the care of a proper economic operator. It is an amendment by my colleague Excellent and Farského - as I say, I am not a legislative person, I was not on the constitutionally-legal committee, where there were very expert arguments against. I'm more concerned about the essence right now, and my position is more like Kateřina Valachová. I will support this amendment under letter B, I believe it will pass. In case it fails, we have the opportunity in the Senate to adjust it in that form so that it meets the criteria that it is supposedly from a legislative - or I would say legally positive view does not meet. [[10.00 hours]] I have a few examples here, but I don't want to delay completely, when the public companies are actually giving information that... or the founders of these companies are giving information that the debts should be stopped. For example, here I have a spokesperson for the Ministry of Health - the Ministry has instructed the faculty hospitals to forgive the debts where the law allows. On the other hand, the spokesperson of the unnamed hospital said that debts cannot be fully forgiven, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic is binding only in a specific case. In other words, these children's debts-- I have one hospital here, I'm not going to name it, but here's a list where there's about 270 children's executions. It is mostly regulatory fees, where the children are really innocent - probably hardly anyone expects a child in a hospital to pay a regulatory fee, it goes to the parents. We're dealing with this in the future, but these cases are here today and they exist, so the question is whether it's hospitals and these institutions that are going to deal with it individually or globally they're going to say, "In these cases, we're going to stop the executions, or we're going to just want the principal and not the accessories that are above it." So this is so many words about the part that goes not only to the future, where I think the support is wide, but which can help solve the present. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I am glad that I was able to be here and that today, at least at the level of the Chamber of Deputies, we are halting the 20-year practice of child debts, child debtors, child executions. Thank you for your attention and have a quiet Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u9	Thank you to Mr Patrik Nacher, good morning, honourable Member, honourable Members, we will continue by speaking with Mr Lukáš Kolářík, and Lubomír Španěl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I, too, shall briefly comment on this press, which we have here before us. I am pleased that today we can draw a line behind the children's debts that we have been dealing with here for two years and thus include ourselves among European advanced states that do not recognise this technique and which do not burden their children with these problems. It was such a black stage, we can really change it today and I'm very happy for it. I am glad that I was also, like my colleagues Valachová, Nacher and Výborný, at the very beginning when we came up with the initiative, so we set the subject up and we could start to deal with it. I am very glad that it was subsequently taken over by the Ministry of Justice, which was impressed by the pressure and came up with some of its own version, which we now have before us. I realize that there has also been a long discussion at the Government Legislative Council, that there has been a conflict of rights, the right of the child and the right of the parents, so it was necessary to discuss this for a long time, and therefore I also see that the delay which, as my colleague Nacher said, was caused not only by the covid but also by this discussion, because it was a rather radical change that was necessary to make in the Czech Republic. According to my information, there was a wider and narrower version of the proposal, and I regret that in the end the Ministry chose the narrower one, the narrower one, but also the one, I think, will be a sufficient shift and a very important step towards putting an end to the practice of child debt in the Czech Republic. Of course, there were some birthing pains in the House. It was included in several meetings, even extraordinary, we could actually have done it much faster than we did today, but eventually it all worked out and despite all the labor pains and the obvious efforts of some people to keep it from moving on and moving on, we have that here and we can really decide. I have to say here one more time, it's the best birthday present you can give me if you support this press at third reading. I would also like to pick up the amendment of my colleague Farský and my colleague Výborný. That is what I think is very important change, because we have been driving around these municipalities in southern Bohemia, and we have also communicated with hospitals to forgive the child's debts, but very often, almost always, we have received a reaction that they cannot, of course they are afraid of the institute of proper economics, because they fear that they will then be drawn for it, so there was a will, but there was a great fear, which I understand, and the problem is there. Therefore, I would like to appeal to support this amendment, so that really the municipalities, hospitals, but also the municipal companies and all those who report some debts to minors can forgive them with a calm conscience and resolve them in those institutions. Finally, I would like to thank you. I would like to thank all the colleagues who came up with the initiative in the beginning. I would also like to thank those colleagues who have pushed this issue further in the House so that we can move it forward. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Justice, which has done a lot of work on this and has always worked very kindly on the comments. I would like to thank the public who is also following the subject, and I am sure they are pushing their legislators to resolve it. Finally, I would also like to thank the company tady and teď, which has already been said here, which, I think, is doing a very good job in the area of child debt. What can I say in conclusion? Asking and appealing to you, fellow Members, to support the proposal itself and, on the one hand, the amendment that I was talking about, once and for all, to draw a line behind immorality, such as child debts, and to put it in a situation where, for the 18th birthday cake, the bailiff does not jump out and ruin their whole lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u11	I thank Mr Lukáš Kolářík. Now, Mr Lubomír Španěl, Helena Válková will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long tried to help people in debt traps. We therefore welcome the amendment of the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure in any direction that will help to dedebt our citizens and children in particular, even if they address the situation unsystematicly and only partially. Children must not enter into adulthood with debts, and it is necessary that children's debts do not arise at all. We've been dealing with executions, weirdness, debt traps for several years now, and nothing has fundamentally shifted to this day because the government is rejecting our efforts. Paradoxically most often child debts arise for unpaid collection of municipal waste or from driving tickets for black. In principle, the parent is responsible for the minor and, in this respect, he simply has to pay both fines and damages for him, and he is actually against the principle of underageness, that the minor is basically responsible in the financial field, only moving enforcement until he reaches age. Often relatively small debt will grow by order over time and become annihilation, becoming the basis of a debt trap that is hard to get out of. That's the thing we should be dealing with. The system must be set in such a way that, regardless of age or underage, no one is to be destroyed by fines and interest on interest. [[10.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we live in a society where a child can bear a child's debt from childhood to adulthood, perhaps even his whole life, then I am deeply ashamed of this society. Please, let us all right this monstrosity together, which we still have at least a pinch of common sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u13	I thank Mr Lubomír Španěl. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Jan Farský will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I think we all know that this press is going to pass, or I dare say, across the political spectrum, there's only consensus, so I'm just going to talk to a few questions. One of them is why, and the previous speaker, my fellow Member Nacher, has already mentioned it, has taken so long. I cannot answer that question except that apparently children do not collect so many political points. Twenty years is a long time. We watched idlely, we didn't do anything. Sometimes someone raised their voice, and now I want to thank those who have repeatedly raised that voice, regardless of the fact that it has not been heard and that the former governments have not paid enough attention to it. Twenty years! Do the math of which governments are involved, or remember. It is the Government Committee on Children's Rights, which has repeatedly raised this issue. His President, Klára Laurenčíková, has warned us, at least during the period during which I work in this human rights agenda, that this issue needs to be supported by all possible political means, which has also happened. I also join those who thank the Ministry of Justice, who have really improved the original parliamentary proposal to the point that we need not worry, that not only, as has been said here, we will pour out the child with a bathtub, but also that we will not cause the so-called pasek in related legislation, or the problems which the objective, surely desirable, will question by not only rocking the case-law, but also the consequences that may lead to some not-so-wanted effects. And as you know, once you intervene in the area of commitments, there is always a risk that this regulation will then be reflected in legal relations that should not be affected. The will of the legislature was different, but the result is that the caselaw then addresses such a mistake or deficiency for a number of years and pays for it again to those who were not to be concerned. So I, with good conscience and knowledge, say that the submitted press is good, protects and will address the issue mainly of children who do not live in an environment that is reliable enough to help them. They will help organizations such as associations that take care of children who return from institutional education entrusted to foster care. I can think of one for all of them, like the Summer House, but I wouldn't rather name specific organizations, there are many. They will certainly all welcome the fact that they will not have to prepare financial plans for their child clients, how to pay off debt for which they can't even, and will tend to the content, therapy, support and help where parents have failed. So all these children's organizations will certainly welcome the approval of this press. I would like to mention here at least a little bit more about what did not pass on the Constitutional Legal Committee and where I also had certain doubts of the legal nature, because here, in Amendment 7330, this has already been repeatedly discussed, argued that it is an odd concern that there is in fact no misinterpretation of the rules governing the standards of management of foreign property, and that therefore we do not have to supplement the transitional provision according to which remission, remission or any other action by the creditor, leading to termination or reduction of the conquest of the debt incurred prior to the date of entry into force of this law, is not considered to be a breach of the obligations relating to property management at the time of the creation of this debt. That it's an odd concern that the caselaw gives us sufficient support for not being followed in this way and that no one here will be afraid of the creditors that they are violating their duty. Then I read the case-law, and if I were to quote you here from a judgment that the ministry itself originally took such an evasive or negative position to do so, it states when it is written, or in the case-law under the registration mark 29 Cdo 4276/2009, that non-application of claims would not in itself be a breach of the obligation to act with due care. And I won't delay any further - the conjunctivitis is sufficiently eloquent. Of course, the caselaw in this direction is now being applied, and perhaps that concern may not really be too high, But there's a conjunctivitis. We have nowhere to say that there will be no creditor, a municipality that does not have enough resources, time or need to pay enough attention to see if there is a caselaw that basically protects it from having to worry about the future, that it has not committed a breach of property management obligations by its actions relating to debt waiver. Such a community chooses a simple comfortable way, simply doesn't do it, doesn't forgive. Personally, I think that if we have the opportunity here to supplement this transitional provision and if we also have the support of a part of the legal public, including judges, who point out that it is always better to have legal certainty and not to rely on another caselaw, which may not always be appropriate to that particular case, it is better that way. It's a better solution. That is why, after I have become familiar with the pros and counterarguments and I have also heard my fellow speakers, I will vote against my initial hesitation for Amendment 7330, because I think that we will do this and we will not have to proceed as my previous speaker, Mrs Valachová, proposed here, through you, Mr Vice-President, with any amendment. In this way, let us bring the issue of children's debts back to the past, that is, debt forgiveness, debt recovery, which arose before the date of entry into force of the law, which we are now discussing and approving. And finally, I think that's just proof of what we're discussing today, how little attention we pay to those who can't defend themselves. There's a lot of them in the children's area. We also have a bill on the children's Ombudsman, which would certainly appear in such a case and stand up for the child in specific cases more effectively than the Ombudsman can now. So let's not forget that if we had a range of legislation that we are adopting here, and it should not just remain on this issue of child debt, enforcement proceedings or House press 545, but we would like to do it comprehensively, we should also work some way to discuss it, or so far in the first reading of the bill on the child Ombudsman. But let us be happy for today, and I hope, as I hear it here, that there will be no problem with the vote and that we will finally be able to advance this standard to the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u15	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková for her performance. Mr Jan Farský now. Alena Gajdůšková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u16	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 7330, which we have tabled with colleague Mark the Výborný and has been discussed here. But since I've heard he looks like he's gonna have a lot of support, I'm not gonna take that much of our time. Still, I dare say the reasons here. The point is that many of the debts mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the Children's Debts Bill and dealing with them are simply debts that have been incurred somewhere in transport companies in various fines, or in libraries or in such institutions. And that it is not a small problem, shows that to 1. 5. 2019 in the age category up to 15 years there were 2,200 children in execution and between 15 and 18 there were 1,200 children. It may not look like such a big number in the sum and number of all executions, if it concerns less than two million minors, but let's think that this is the equipment that they take to their lives, and given how they are set up with us, how it is possible to produce those debt slaves who pay for life only on accessories without ever getting to pay the principal, so many of these people will never get out of this situation at all. Maybe one day they'll inherit some property, maybe they'll win in an athlete, and what they inherit or win, with any luck, it'll serve them to pay off their debts, but sometimes it won't be enough, because they're just not often meant to be repaid, but to keep the debtor in slavery. I think it is almost inexplicable for many people, for the general public, that the debts were often incurred by municipalities or companies of municipalities or municipalities. But the explanation is simply hiding in one trouble that is widely biased in self-government. Those who forgive debts put themselves at risk of being attacked for not acting with proper care and damaging their community. Yes, the caselaw states and states in its opinion that this has been resolved, that the judicatures have already said that it will not happen again and that the one who is accused at that time is likely to recover. The reality is that in the municipalities, which we have only 6 250 municipalities in the Czech Republic, it is simply not everywhere it is possible to work with a lawyer at the office, if he is a lawyer himself. When I was worried for eight years in Semily, the fact that a criminal complaint had been filed against someone and a criminal complaint was filed against me was no problem for me at the time, because I saw that it was completely nonsense, so I dealt with it as a person with legal education very easily. But I do know how unpleasant and terribly difficult it is for a person who has no experience in a law firm to know that it is completely unfounded, and how, in many cases, let's say, it can damage him in particular small municipalities. Unfortunately, we still have the presumption of guilt for politicians, so it's enough that someone is being charged with criminal charges, and at that point he's been convicted of many people. And that precedes everything if it's even discussed, if there's even going to be an indictment. But the situation, the fact that someone filed any criminal complaint, is already considered basically that the person did it. This proposal gives certainty. It gives confidence to many thousands of people who might even relieve child debtors, but at the risk of themselves facing a criminal report with which they are unsure of the outcome, it simply does not approach this step. For this reason, I think this proposal makes great sense, clarifying the situation. It concerns children's debtors, it does not apply across the board, and of course it does not - it is not so that it will be in all cases. It is an opportunity to act in this way without putting themselves at risk. And, of course, it also has to do with the fact that often this debt recovery is absolutely obvious from the start, that it is inefficient, unnecessary, that the community only pays for it, to manage debts, but that write-off is simply a risk that no one wants to take. So they just let it go on, they let it go on, and they let it lie in the fact that somebody's in that execution that's never gonna happen anyway, they're talking about it. Here's an option that will relieve it, which will release it and which system will certainly make it very clear. Indeed, even the Ministry, in its opinion on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, cites the caselaw from which it could be concluded that it is not necessary in this case, so it does not say that it is somehow misspelled, dangerous. It just says that from their point of view - but here I would really set it, from the expert point of view of the Ministry - is not necessary. I understand that, but not every mayor has a departmental and legal union security system or legal education. For this reason, I would ask you that this paragraph, which will benefit the children's debtors, but it will also benefit the authorities to put it into this law and to support the amendment under number 7330 of my colleague Excellent and mine. Thank you so much in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u17	Thank you, Mr Jan Farský. I will ask my colleague Gajdůšková to wait because Mr Dominik Feri has exercised the priority right of Vice-President of the MP's club in the absence of the Chairman of the TOP 09, so I will give him the floor to speak with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to take this a little more widely, especially because this is probably the last amendment to the Civil Code that we will approve during this parliamentary term. On this Margo, I have tabled selected amendments that go beyond the issue of child debts, but I am based on the broader concept of the legislative process, when the House and Parliament in general is a sovereign and, of course, can also express itself in the context of the Constitutional Court's previously tried findings on matters which may not only concern the narrow section of the material, which the legitimate petitioner has covered in the original proposal, in the original draft. [[10.30 hours]] Let's recap the eighth term. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we were very active. The proposals - we, as opposition, criticized it, did not get to our opposition proposals, but compared to today it was still golden. And then the covid came into it, and since then we've only been dealing with covido legislation in a state of legislative emergency, those urgent proposals. The proposals, when I bring it into the medical code, we postpone elective, and we've already got a huge stack of proposals -- if you look at the agenda, we're at about 550 -- they're never going to discuss each other. What we've all been working on here without distinction from the opposition, the coalition, will fall under the table. Some of us can take advantage of this, those who are running in the next election - I wish all our colleagues success in the elections - so that they can apply these proposals, but they simply fall under the table without any more proposals. We, within the Constitutional and Legal Committee, have tried a new procedure, and this is a matter where, I think, very well managed to reach an agreement between the government, or the Ministry of State and the opposition, and we have looked at how much time we have left until the end of the parliamentary term. That means we have only a few months left, we have already discussed the schedule for the next semester in the Organizing Committee. The negotiations are just so few, there is not much left until the end of the parliamentary term, rather it will be a time of extraordinary meetings and an ad hoc meeting here during the discussion of a partial agenda. So we looked at how much time is left by the end of the year, with the secretary and her deputy and the press number 699, which concerns international judicial cooperation, we said to ourselves: we have more press to do this, it's transpositional stuff, it's adaptation stuff, so why should we discuss three prints here at the same time, and only one has a chance to at least succeed in getting out of the House, that we can discuss it when we can put it together? That is why we have decided to submit to the press 699 compilation amendments, which will actually speed up the entire legislative process. Now it's going to be a second reading. I'm going to put these proposals here, but I think it's a sign, say, of goodwill and good cooperation between the opposition and the coalition, and I think, and that's why I started here in such an extensive way that we could do this with other laws. Consider, for example, the issue of the Civil Code, civil law. I think that many colleagues have put forward fundamental things here, but also small adjustments, which we will never discuss as separate proposals. If any of us here makes a proposal, they have to wait for the government's position, which means within 30 days, then the presume that the consent has been given, and then wait for the inclusion and the standard three readings. This means, unfortunately, any proposal that we put forward here, which will not be in the '90s, will not meet with success in view of the limited time remaining until the end of the parliamentary term. On the way, of course, it could be to make proposals in the '90s, but again I remind you that the agenda of the meeting is incredibly charged. Because of the covid crisis, the legislative process of all proposals is completely stuck and we are only discussing what cannot be postponed, and it will also take a lot of time to remember, for example, last week or even last week, when we have been sitting here for a very long time, and this really concerned only a partial agenda within the framework of the covid legislation. Therefore, I believe that the appropriate way can be to compile proposals that affect the partial agenda - but I note - of the big codes, such as the Civil Code, but also others, even in the criminal material, into one press. This means, even if this draft concerns children's debts, I have taken the liberty of making several amendments to it, which can be found under the letters D1, D2, D3. One that I have tabled within the Committee has been approved and is part of the package of amendments from the constitutionally-legal committee, which go beyond the material of children's debts and affect essentially two broader thematic units. Let me start with the subject of possession and its protection. What's a hold-up? The concept of possession is very different in the context of legal teaching. The legal teaching is essentially divided into two halves, where one half says that holding is a mere factual condition, which means that if I have some paper that is in my possession, I'm just actually holding it. Another part of the legal teaching says that holding, and I agree with that view, is substantive law. Why do I think holding is a substantive right? I therefore believe that the Civil Code, although not giving the definition of possession, merely says that the holder is the one exercising the right for himself, so that he also says that the holding must not be unduly disturbed. So the holding, in my opinion, could be defined by the fact that the holding is a right or a right to hold and not to be disturbed by anyone. Since the fact that the holding is only a factual condition, the factual condition that is protected by law and law and which is enforced by law is not the actual situation itself, because it is precisely that I hold a right that, for example, I exercise ownership of this sheet of paper, that none of the other people, of the other disruptors, can disturb the holding and I am given protection against the interference. The protection is double-type. If someone disturbs your grip - and I allow myself to zoom in on the example of the property: if you have a garden and someone enters your garden with a tractor and park it there or pierces the garden, you basically have two options. The first option is to defend the so-called petitorically, or to file a negative negative action, which means that someone is abolishing your own right of ownership - the petition of the petition of the petitioner. What do you imagine under it? And why are we even making a distinction between a petit and a post-sessive lawsuit? In a negative action, the very existence of ownership must be demonstrated, which means that you must prove that the right of ownership is good to you and that someone is unduly interfering with it. Proving ownership of an immovable property is very easy by carrying out documentary evidence, such as a certificate of ownership, it's quite more complicated for movable things, because for example, if I took away the computer you're using right now, you'd have to prove that you've acquired it, for example, proof that you bought it somewhere. You may no longer have the document, but still the procedural burden, which means the burden of the claim and the burden of proof, weighs on you. It is therefore very difficult for the owner to prove that he has the right of ownership. However, the current legal order finally provides protection against the previous civil code of 1964, as well as the so-called post-sorry, or exclusively holding protection. What do I mean? If you own a computer or mobile phone that you have in your hand, not only do you have ownership rights, but you also have ownership rights. What's the difference? If I take this phone away from you and disturb your grip, you don't have to prove that you're the owner, but you only have to prove that you have the last hold, for example by showing a photograph from earlier times that you just have the phone, and you will prove that I wasn't in any way entitled to cancel that hold on you. [[10.40 hours]] This, please, concerns one of those amendments. Because at the moment I must, or you must, as holders, follow this example, you must prove that I had no legal reason to disturb your grip, which is a completely perverse approach regarding procedural burdens, because the right thing should be for me to have to prove that I have no legal reason. This brings us to a phenomenon called probatio diabolica, or that you have to prove that something is not good for me or that I do not have something. It is very problematic, it is criticized by doctrine, for example it criticizes probably our biggest Czech expert on factual rights and possession, Dr. Spáčil from the Supreme Court, and other Brno legal doctrines. And they think that this change should happen. If we look at recent case-law, it can be said that the case-law of the parties to the post-seism proceedings is very fragmented. The Regional Court in Brno, for example, has argued that proving that there is no legal reason for the suspension of possession is a legal reason, for example, for example, for the execution title. If the executor had said: I am confiscating this computer during the Mobiliar execution, your possession of ownership does not undoubtedly disturb you, because the legal basis will be an execution order, but the Regional Court in Brno stated that such a procedure to require you as a holder to actually have negative proof that there is no legal title for the cancellation of possession is disproportionate. However, I have also met with the situation in which the District Court in Pilsen has judged that you must prove that the law in this is quite clear, and unfortunately, unfortunately, the applicant has not succeeded in this case because it has not been able to prove that the intruder, the defendant, is not in any legal position to interfere. This is therefore a very sensitive matter, which can lead to failure in individual cases. That is one of those amendments. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The proposal, which I mentioned earlier, which has already met with success within the Constitutional and Legal Committee, concerns the marking of the action. Taking as the example of Kleinův's Civil Procedure Code, the very key procedural regulation followed by disputes in the first Republic and which is considered to be the culmination of the 1895 social concept of the civil process, he was quite clear about the fact that actions abolished by the holding should be described as actions abolished by the holding. It sounds kind of absurd, but it has practical reasons. The holding case law is very controversial within the Czech Republic. Since 2014, when civil law was recodification in the Czech Republic, there have been, say, 300 to 400 proceedings, or, respectively, we have 400 final, maybe 500 final decisions, which, for example, is not still being published in some centralised electronic system... Mr President, may I ask when the point is firmly placed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u19	I understand that some are discussing the nature of your performance, perhaps even here... Of course, I'm going to ask the House for peace, and the discussions you're conducting outside this point to move you to the lobby. My colleague Feri here will explain some of the legal theories relating to this matter. [[Member Feri: Thank you, Mr President.]] But if you don't care, really, really put the debates in the lobby. I'd like to ask both his fellow Members and the others. Just a moment, Mr. Congressman... Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have already been assured that the following fixed point is included at 11.30. I think that on the issue of possession and the question of inheritance law I will be sufficiently exhausted around 11.05, then my colleague Gajdůškovášková will be able to vote in time. So where was I? Yes, Kleinův's civil order of justice. The procedural regulation said so for the sake of clarity at first sight as to what the defendant is referring to. I've been talking about you having the right to join the disruptor both on the path of the petitorium and on the path of the possessorio, which means either protecting the right of ownership itself or protecting only its possession. And I haven't mentioned yet that you don't just have to hold ownership rights, but you can hold more limited rights, for example, you can also hold rent rights, because generally since Randy it is given that you can hold the right that allows repeated performance. This means, for example, that you cannot hold a right that ceases to be a single exercise, such as a payment claim, but you can hold, for example, a rental right, a right of borrowing, a right of exchange and another right. Thus, not only the right of property, i.e. the right of ownership, but also absolute rights, but also relative rights, that is precisely the right of rent. The reason why it was made quite clear in the previous procedural regulation that actions cancelled by the holding should be marked as actions revoked by the holding is indeed that, in a situation where the case is brought before the court, the Registry should, in order to make it clear how to deal with it. If I turn it into today's adjustment, what is the interesting possessorium, what is the interesting post-sesurorial procedure compared to petitorship - the difference is absolutely essential. When I was referring to the fact that the plaintiff is burdening more procedural burdens, burden of claim and burden of proof in the course of the petition procedure, the proceedings of the petitioner are not bound by any procedural time limits for the decision. In other words, when you sue whether or not you own a property, it will be very likely or you will reach a final decision after a year or two. I looked into the Ministry of Justice's statistical statements, the really average petitorium lasts hundreds of days. However, in the case of possessoria, the situation is different because in the possessorium you do not show the existence of the hardened right, but you only show the last holding and its interference. Perhaps a part of you who also enjoys holding as I do may object: but within the framework of possissoria it is possible to provide a law that is only hardened and which is inexistible, which is not. Yes. This is a reality that is inherently linked to post-sessive control. Part of the Austrian doctrine even says that the possessorium is completely illogical in the rule of law, because when an example is given to you - Knapp introduced it - it was an example of a person who was a tenant in an apartment and rented one room. The tenant was thinking, "Yeah, yeah, I'm comfortable living here, but I'd like more room. The tenant says to him, "No, I need the room, I won't rent it." So the tenant broke into the apartment while the tenant was on vacation, settled there, so he moved his things out and locked the room. What happened then: the tenant came back, saw that the lodger had taken the room, but with the view of the law he became the lodger's owner, he had a hold. It may have been a false hold, but it had a hold, because the Civil Code of the time was very clear that the holding is protected, whatever it may be. What happened next: the tenant was furious that he had taken his lodger's room and decided to change his lock. However, the tenant was aware of the modifications at the time, the protection of possession by means of possessoria, and he joined the tenant with a program of law, which means he sued him, and sued him successfully, because although he was not the owner or even though the rental right did not testify to the room, he was able to prove his possession, and the court therefore provided him with protection. [[10.50 hours]] So the purpose of possessoria, if I sum up, is not to decide the situation definitively, it means to say: You are the owner, you are not the owner, but it is basically to say: You do not have to be the owner at the end, you have to be the owner of the property right, you cancel the ownership right, I forbid you, as a court, to revoke the ownership right and then settle it in the petitorium. In most cases, of course, this possessorium is sufficient because the rightful holder - or the holder, is hiding with the owner, but there may be a situation which, as I have already mentioned, is very critical of the Austrian doctrine, because it can really lead to absurd legal conclusions that it does not cover, and then becomes a petitorium as the only way for the failed owner. I have already indicated one thing which is different from that of the general Civil Code in ABGB, namely that, unfortunately, it was not explicitly stated by the legislature that any holding was protected in the recoding process. In this case, this is an amendment, House document 6834 or D3 in the context of the procedure, where I quite openly propose that it be stated that the holding can be really any kind, and that the so-called petitioning objections are rejected. If you look at the commentary literature, for example in the commentary by Dr. Spáčil, the author's team, or the author's team of Dr. Petrov, they quite frankly say there: "The hold may be any, but the court will provide it with protection under the possissoria." I think we should be clear about this, because, as I have studied the decision of both the founding and the appeals courts, it is quite obvious that unfortunately, the defendant often claims facts and indicates evidence of things that are completely irrelevant to the outcome of the post-sebor procedure. For example, it does not matter whether the defendant claims: This lawnmower is mine and it is not his, because it is not ownership, it is ownership. Let's get on with it. [[Minister Benešová - a reaction from the rapporteur's desk.]] I mean, on another subject from my... my proposals, not to the next performer, Madam Secretary. [[He's laughing.]] The reason I believe that an action to revoke the holding should be marked as an action to revoke the holding, and the constitutionally-legal committee has given me the right to do so is because there are procedural time limits for the decision. For example, the action cancelled by the holding must be decided within 15 days of the action being brought, from the idea of the action. In the case of a ban on the implementation of the construction under the provisions of Sections 1004 and 1005 of the Civil Code, there is a period of 30 days. What are the consequences? The consequences of this, for example, are that it is a bit similar to the preliminary measure, which is evident from what I mentioned earlier, and at the same time the consequences are that the court will simply limit itself to shallow evidence and shallow verification of the hard facts and not to the existence of the law itself, which results from the very essence of possessoria. So these are the three amendments that I have tabled on the issue of possession, and I think that the designation of possession is something that is important, because if the matter comes to mind on the mailroom and if it is allocated according to the work schedule of the relevant Registry, that makes it quite obvious what the plaintiff is referring to. Either he is calling on the petitorium, then there is the possibility of dealing with the matter with, say, a slight delay, there is no need to qualify so much, or he is calling on the possessorio, in that situation a procedural period of 15 days should be given, which should be observed. The consequences of non-compliance with the time limit are, for example, an obligation to compensate for damage. For your information, the Ministry of Justice reports state that the 15-day period is - quite surprisingly - respected in 50 percent of the cases. At the same time, it is also necessary to say, in the light of the recent case law of the Constitutional Court, because the caselaw which concerns the protection of possession is explicitly the caselaw of the courts of appeal and the caselaw of the Constitutional Court, even though it is a refusal of unsuccessful constitutional complaints, on the ground that the appeal to the Supreme Court is not admissible in matters of protection of possession by a subsequence or post-sequence law, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the 15 days concerned only the finding procedure. The proceedings before the appeal court may last, but although they persist, it takes relatively significantly less than in the Petitor proceedings. So much for one thematic series of my amendments. The next heading of my amendments, which you will find under the procedure under D1, concerns the inheritance agreement. I can please your colleagues in the YES movement because I present this amendment with my colleague Tomáš Kohoutek of the ANO movement, because it is a matter of purely supraparty, purely technical, but very important. It concerns the so-called inheritance agreement. The legacy contract is a new heir or, say, an old-fashioned inheritance title that has been enshrined in our legal order in the recodification of civil law with effect from 1. 1. 2014. The legacy contract is a bilateral legal negotiation where the deceased agrees with someone, whether with a legal person or with a natural person, in our opinion, therefore with a legal person, and can then call her as an heir. It is the view of our law the strongest inheritance title, which does not exclude the deceased from the handling of property, the estate, that is, the property until the death of the deceased. The legislator promised himself much from the inheritance covenant. Let's just say that in the inheritance contract, the strictness of the form is given, that is, the inheritance contract is concluded as a notary record, it must take the form of a notary record, and I think it is an instrument that is not used as it should be. If we look at the numbers, there were some plus or minus 200 inheritance contracts concluded last year. If it's about the wills, they've all been closed down by some kind of hunch about 20,000, something like that. This means that we have some legal instrument that is not being used as it should be. It has numerous advantages - predictability, certainty for both sides and, of course, some kind of evidence power, because it is the strongest inheritance title and thus beats as an ace, for example, a will. The reason why we believe, with our colleague Tomáš Kohoutek of the ANO movement, that the inheritance agreement should give rise to adjustments, and why so many residents do not resort to it, is that for some historical reasons, which I explain in the context of the reasoning, the inheritance contract can be awarded only about three quarters of the property and, for example, one quarter you have to resolve the will. The Civil Code is very helpful in this and says that, in principle, if an inheritance contract is concluded for the entire property, then, if the inheritance agreement stands as a will, the one quarter is spoken of or viewed as a will. The reason why you can't buy the entire property is really historical. I looked into Zeillerův's comments to ABGB from 1813 and there he basically states that the reason why the deceased cannot acquire the entire property is because men tend to be drugged, fooled by women and could perhaps in some emotional fervor promise the woman his entire property, and therefore it was said that he would be able to be there to be just a sort of insurance policy, to decide the inheritance contract for three quarters of the property. [[11.00 hours]] That's what we think is outdone, even though these things probably won't always pay, but we think it's legally outdone, and we think it might be our proposal to make a decision on the entire estate under the inheritance agreement. We believe that this brings certainty into the legal relations of the deceased and, at the same time, that it is a strengthening of the so-called test freedom. If we talk about this often in public discourse - about some freedom to dispose of your property and ownership, then freedom as such falls apart into partial freedoms, such as freedom to enter into a legal relationship or not to enter into, whether you conclude a contract or not, what the contract will be and who it will be with, but it concerns, for example, the general freedom on the property section, including, for example, the property you have acquired in your life, who will then go, who will be attacked. We believe that the residents should have the right to decide on their entire property by an inheritance agreement, and I beg you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u21	Thank you and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Government, Madam Members, don't worry, I will not be so long, I will be relatively brief, as is my custom, but I will nevertheless allow myself to say something about what we have here, what we are discussing, and that is the solution to child debts. The fact that a child can be a debtor is really absurd nonsense, and I want to join those who thanked the initiates of this bill, which is definitely Kateřina Valachová, Lukáš Kolářík, but also all non-profit organizations, the Ministry of Justice, who prepared the proposal so that I am convinced that it will be right. And I'm looking at Patrik Nacher here, who I can't forget. The crucial thing I see here in this proposal as an original professorship is that it strengthens itself and requires the responsibility of the child's legal representative. That, from my point of view, is really the most important thing - from my point of view, the educator. However, I also want to thank non-profit organizations that have managed to map out where these child debts arose. It is quite surprising that the largest creditors according to Here and now, which dealt with this in detail, are essentially municipalities and institutions associated with these municipalities. I think it is very good here that this is being thought of as an amendment to my colleague Farský. But let's also look at what is the main cause of child debt, and it is here and now that society has four underlying causes. Firstly, the fact that the text of the Civil Code has not yet clearly defined the financial responsibility of the legal representative for his offspring. As a second cause, he mentions the high rewards of executors and profit-driven lawyers. Debts were even sold to private companies and clientelism in the Czech Republic started an unlimited trade in debts, which unfortunately also children fell into. Another reason is that due to the overload of the courts that elected legalism, positivity, there was no individual assessment of cases, and the circumstances in which the children were at the time of the creation of the debt were not taken into account. And that the children had no or no representation at all in court. I'm going to take a little turn here, because this is not just a problem in dealing with children's debts. The fact that children who are parties to legal proceedings, whether as entities or objects of law, do not have relevant legal representation often leads to these absurd results. I therefore do not have to go to this law, but I have already tabled an amendment to the House press 911 which proposes that children should also have legal representation in such cases next door or, together with the OSPOD, which is supposed to stand up for the children. I'll go back to which subjects generated the most child debtors. They are transport companies - a ride without a ticket, municipalities - waste collection fees, telephone operators, but also hospitals. So far, many face the fact that somewhere they owe fees, which have been cancelled anyway. And what is really, as the Slovák say, a picochet, is that a child can become a debtor if he owes overtime fees in the library. Well, co-workers and co-workers, if a kid comes to our library, I think we should commend him for that, and for the community, for the school, for everyone who works with those kids, it's a positive report. We really should look at it a little differently there. So I say again that I will support the amendment by my colleague Farský, who is dealing with this really absurd issue. And I will ask you and believe that today this bill, which prohibits child debts, will leave the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can deal well with this situation in the legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u23	Thank you. President Vojtěch Filip has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u24	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief and I will follow up on Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. I also hope that this bill will leave the Chamber of Deputies approved, I look forward to it. Of course, I understand parliamentary obstruction, all of this is clear, but on the other hand, I would like to draw attention to those who use it, that even the public perceives some speeches to be Czech-style, similarly. It's not a statement to the point, it's a clean obstruction. I quote one text that I received to see where we are: "It seems that Feri is preparing for his bar exams and reporting it to the House. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the UK in 2020 as a master. I'm reminding you, he's an asshole. Diploma on the topic of post-serial protection defended 8. 9. 2020. If you really think it's gonna help anyone, it's not gonna help."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u25	Mr František Navrkal with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u26	Thank you for the floor. Hello, esteemed colleagues. It is indeed a coincidence that you have said this, Mr Filip, through Mr President, when just today, my colleague Ferim has succeeded in doing what has never been done here before, at third reading, to change my mind about voting on an amendment. So that was Dominik Feri's speech here, where I really changed my mind about the other two. So I have to say to the gentleman or the lady who sent you that text, that it's not true, that it wouldn't make sense, that it was some kind of clean obstruction or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u27	Thank you. Mr Milan Feranec, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, really briefly. I don't know what went wrong or what didn't, but I understand the purpose of a long performance, not allowing a vote to ban child debt. And we can tell for whose benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u29	With priority rights, Mr Dominik Feri. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Feranč, through Mr President. The fact that you guys go violin shows is not my problem. I like to talk, I talk to the point, I talk to the subject. That doesn't hurt at all. I propose amendments to it which are substantive. The chairman here is pushing you away from talking - he probably knows why. Please forgive yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u31	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? He's reporting. Mr Lubomír Španěl, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have had a bit of a laugh, I would ask the fellow pirát, through Mr President, if he could briefly tell us what Mr Feri was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u33	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Mr Jan Čižinský is reporting for the debate with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u34	Maybe I want to react after all. We're the lawmakers' chamber here. If I understood the previous speaker correctly, he's mocking someone's understanding something, he designed it here and defended it. So to me, frankly, it seems completely out of place to mock the fact that someone here is professionally defending their expert proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u35	President Radim Fiala with a factual remark, then Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u36	To his predecessor, my colleague, through the President. I don't know what you're wondering. After all, everyone in this chamber has the right to say and express their opinion freely, and that's what we're here for. And we certainly don't judge whether anyone has an opinion like that or a poppy tree, but everyone can simply express it freely and contribute somehow to the discussion, to solving the subject. So please don't order us, take care of your fellow Members, the Members who sit around you. I think we all have one single task to contribute to making things better in society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u37	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u38	Thank you. Well, I didn't want to perform, but the double standard -- yes, I haven't said that in a long time -- it's just that the principle of the double standard bothers me. I remember speaking purely to the point here - to the 545 - and some of my colleagues were performing and saying that I was stalling, but it was purely to the point. I even said, like, 15 times, I'm gonna say the rest at third reading. And now my colleague, Feri, who I otherwise appreciate, has been talking for half an hour about the amendments that are spoken of in this form in the second reading, which are of a kind, I would say, a sticker on that, because the main topic is child execution. So don't be surprised that some people feel that way. Don't really feel it - and you're really evaluating it here with that double standard. When someone talks for 15 minutes, they obsess when someone's talking half an hour to a point that's not directly related to the content, which is a child's execution, so it's suddenly okay because it's one of you and because it has something to do with not this point, but probably some other one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u39	Thank you. President Vlastimil Válek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u40	I, through Mr President, wanted to speak, unlike Mr Nacher. I wanted to get out, but to keep an eye on myself, so de facto. Completely, through Mr President, I agree with what President Fiala has said, and it is a good thing that a Member does not understand something that he is coming here and saying: I do not understand it, can anyone explain it to me? That means I don't think the SPD spokesperson's appearance is wrong at all. On the contrary, I think that if some Members who are not here sitting on the right of me in the corner came and said that they did not understand, they had explained why they were wearing drapes and what the point is, they would have explained how some medicines work, so it would have helped a lot, so it would have calmed the atmosphere. It's a good thing someone doesn't understand coming, asking, and explaining. This is the right way, and thank you very much for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u41	Thank you. The following is Mrs Helena Langšádlová's factual point, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that it is considered perfectly legitimate that amendments are advocated here at third reading, because it is still an opportunity for other colleagues to actually convince the correctness of the amendments. So what my colleague Dominik Feri said here, when he explained, and it turned out that he convinced one of his colleagues to support his amendment, was indeed the right opportunity at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u43	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, then Mr Jan Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u44	Colleagues, co-workers, we have 14 minutes to the next point to ban child debt. Please, let's ban them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u46	I just wanted to say that I would be curious to see how Mr Španěl will vote when he said in front of everyone that he didn't understand at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u47	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? [[- No. Newsletter: No.]] She doesn't have a secretary or a rapporteur. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee approved and recommended to the House the following procedure. He recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law under House press 984/2 in the following order: Point 1. Proposals for technical adaptations submitted pursuant to § 95 para. 2, the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, if they are presented in the debate at the third reading. Point 2, letter A. I note that point A concerns, on the one hand, the replacement of transitional provisions of full discretion for the 21st year of age. Further on points And there's a shift in efficiency to 1 July 2021, and there's also our favorite action canceled by possession. Point 3 is point B. Point B is an excellent Member's amendment and concerns the waiver, remission and enforcement of another creditor's act, this possibility of allowing this to be done in such a way that there is no breach of the obligations relating to the management of assets. Point 4 is letter C, amendment by Kateřina Valachová and Helena Válková and concerns a copy of the criminal record. The point is, then, that, in future custody matters, we should also be able to obtain a copy of the criminal record for the court. Next, point 4 is letter D1. This concerns one of Dominik Feri's amendments. In particular, this concerns an inheritance contract which can be concluded by a natural person and an obligation to change only by personal conduct. [[Nesroz.]] [[11.20 hours]] Point 6 is D2, which also concerns the amendment by Dominik Feri, and it is the applicant's question of the protection of impaired holdings and the time limit for the court to decide on the action within 15 days. Point 7 is D3, as well as the amendment by Dominik Feri to exclude objections to the right to hold and its nature. Point 8 - the Guarantee Committee has proposed voting for the bill as a whole in terms of procedure. So much, Mr President, a proposal for a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u49	Thank you. Is there a reminder or a counterproposal for the procedure? It's not. We're gonna vote on it, but there was a motion to unsubscribe, so I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. We're ready for the vote. We are voting on the draft procedure as presented. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 87, 104 Members signed in for 103, against no one. We've approved the procedure. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u50	First of all, we will vote in accordance with point 2 of the procedure, because no technical amendments have been proposed during the third reading debate. Point 2 is therefore point A, and it is, as I have already mentioned, the amendment of transitional provisions and the replacement of full legal status of the 21st year of age, the shift of effectiveness to 1 July 2021, the right to a copy in the criminal record of custody courts. And there's also the issue of jammed possession. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee, the Constitutional and Legal Committee, is recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u51	Madam Secretary? [[A neutral opinion.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 88, registered by 102 Members, for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u52	The next item is point 2 (B). This concerns Marek Výborný's amendment, so it is a possibility of remission, a waiver from enforcement, so that this is not considered to be a breach of property management obligations. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u53	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 89. 101 MP registered, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u54	We shall now proceed to the vote in point C. Unfortunately now, Mr President, I find that I was wrong as rapporteur and that we will vote on the copies from the criminal record for the custody court just now, in point C. I ask you to state whether it was clear what we voted on or if we have to go back to that one point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u55	Does anyone have a request for us to go back? No one made such a request. Colleagues and colleagues knew what they were voting on, so we can focus on point C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u56	Thank you. It is therefore a copy of the criminal records for the custody court. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee shall be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u57	Thank you. Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 90, registered by 102 Members, for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u58	Point 4 is the letter D1. It concerns the amendment of Dominik Feri, the inheritance agreement. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - Opinion not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u59	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 91, registered by 102 Members, for 9, against 12. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u60	We approach paragraph 5, vote letter D2. It concerns Dominik Feri's amendment and concerns the enforcement of the applicant for the protection of the affected holding. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u61	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 92, registered by 102 Members, for 14, against 17. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u62	Point 6 of the voting procedure, letter D3. It concerns Dominik Feri's amendment, the question of excluding objections to the right of possession and their nature. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - Opinion not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u63	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 93, registered by 102 Members, for 9, against 16. The motion was not accepted. We voted on all the amendments. [[Newsletter: Yes.]] We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, according to the House's press 984, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 101 Member, for 101 Member, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. [[Newsletter: Thank you.]] With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ANO Faltýnek Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u64	Thank you for the floor. Just one technical statement. When I bypassed most of the presidents of the MPs, next week's half-format negotiations, we agreed. Since Tuesday. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u65	Yes, thank you for the information. It's 11:28 p.m., 11.30 p.m., we have a fixed point. If you agree to my procedure, we'll wait that minute and focus on the fixed point at 11:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-05-ps2017-087-04-001-331.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will now address the point
