ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u1	60. Kateřina Valachová, Válková Váláková, Jakub Michálek, Marek Výborný and Milan Feranc's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, and Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of some other laws, as amended /German press 965/ - first reading I will ask that Kateřina Valachová take her place at the rapporteur's table as the proposer and rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Farský, whom I do not see. I still note that the Government's position has been delivered as a House press of 965/1. Since my colleague Farský is not here and we are in half the format, the rapporteur could become Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Marek Benda. I will ask you briefly to agree to the exchange of the rapporteur for first reading. Does anyone else have a proposal other than for Marek Benda to be the rapporteur? I don't see anyone. We will therefore vote on the fact that Marek Benda will be the rapporteur for the first reading for the press in 965. I've started voting number 320 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 320, from 90 to 57, against no one. The motion was accepted. The rapporteur will be colleague Marek Benda. I will now ask Mrs Kateřina Valachová to press 965 for the plaintiffs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present to you the bill. This is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and the amendment to the Act on Elections and the amendment to other laws, as amended. The reason for submitting this parliamentary proposal as a parliamentary initiative was the need to add some rules to the Rules of Procedure and to the Act on Elections after we discussed with colleagues and agreed on the form of a moving mandate as a change to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and we agreed that, if the new institute was approved, we still need to ensure that the transfer of the rights and obligations of the Member who is a member of the Government is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. There it is important to say that the rights and obligations of a Member who is a member of the Government are transferred to an alternate at the House meeting by a Member's statement that he will not exercise his mandate for the duration of his membership of the Government, or at the moment of receipt of the notarial record of that statement to the President of the House. The alternate shall be in a similar position to the Member during the period of exercise of the rights and obligations of the Member. This was the basic rule on which we agreed in terms of the regulation of the Rules of Procedure. The second issue concerned the amendment of the Act on Elections and the amendment and addition of certain other laws. This is the second part of the law, where we have adjusted the new regulation of an alternate exercising the rights and obligations of a Member of the Government in such a way as to avoid problems in practice. We propose the effectiveness of the law so that it becomes effective on the first day of the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies elected after the date of the declaration of this law. This therefore concerns the upcoming term of office. On the Government's position, I can only briefly say that the government has supported this brief proposal, which is based on the needs of a moving mandate, to give a favourable opinion on it. I beg you, colleagues and colleagues, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u3	I thank the plaintiff's representative, and I will now ask Mr Marek Benda to present a news report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u4	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Madam Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, the petitioner here has described the proposal in quite detail. It is based on the work carried out on the premises of the Permanent Commission for the Institute and to carry out the previous draft law under discussion, i.e. a slippery mandate for the constitutional, our Rules of Procedure and the Act on Elections, where, of course, a number of partial questions appear, what happens to the alternates, how they become back Members and others, which I believe are trying to address in a satisfactory way. The question, of course, is whether a proposal that envisages constitutional change is still worthwhile on the first day of the next parliamentary term, and we are discussing it at the beginning of May when elections are held in October, at first reading, if it is worth discussing, but let us just let it go to committees, but I don't know how it will be decided in September. [[ho]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a debate in which I have no application, and Vice-President Tomio Okamura is reporting for the debate. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come back because this is related to the issue of a slippery mandate, because this is also related to this point. It is gratifying that the proposal to separate the position of Member and Minister, whom I co-submitted, has found favor across the political parties. I am grateful to you, my fellow Members, and, above all, because I consider this proposal to be the first step towards genuine democracy. As the explanatory memorandum says, the purpose of the ban on the exercise of functions simultaneously is the consistent implementation of the principle of division of power and, at the same time, solves the fact that the minister does not have the time or capacity to perform both functions properly and 100%, so that he cannot carry out the mandate as he should, according to his promise and the substance of the matter. The separation of executive and legislative powers is therefore essential, it is absolutely essential for democracy and effectively defines it. In democracy, there is a legislative power that sets out rules that govern power-efficient, executive, and over both there is the power of control that is in the hands of citizens, citizens who, according to the Constitution, but mainly according to natural human law, have sovereign power over their country. There is no democracy in the Czech Republic yet. Not only is it mixed too legal and executive, but there is no real control power in practice. On the other hand, when a government coalition is established here, Parliament is also removed. We remember the previous government of Bohuslav Sobotka from the ČSSD, which had the point that no parliamentary proposal should be voted out, and this government then established a direct, nothing and no-one uncontrolled dictatorship of executives, more precisely its government. The fact that the current government allows parliamentary proposals to pass from time to time is given not only by its democratic maturity, but by an act of desperation, because, as we all know here, the last year of the House and its Members have been correcting and addressing problems that the government and its ministers cannot handle or have put them straight behind us. The fact that we have a year of unconstitutional measures that have liquidated the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens is then due to the fact that there is absolutely no control power. As we can see, it is not filled by justice, which on the one hand always states that individual measures are illegal and unconstitutional, but at the same time cannot provide redress. On the contrary, judgments are as absurd as government measures, because while they state illegality, they always come late and deal only with specific time-bound illegal declarations of government, without facing the problem and ending the annual trample on the constitution and lawlessness. Of course, the victims of this government dictatorship are citizens on all levels and on all levels. The result is thousands of unnecessarily dead, perhaps up to hundreds of thousands of people who are disabled and terrifying economic damage, which will still be paid by our children, and, of course, a massive strengthening of our economic and political dependence on the dictatorship of Brussels. All this against the will of the overwhelming majority of citizens, the real owners of this country. I hope someone gets out here and opposes me and tells me that I'm lying, that, on the contrary, people want all of this. I ask too much, because then the only judge who can judge our dispute is a citizen, and I and we in the SPD say, "Let's give the power that belongs to citizens according to the Constitution, to citizens." Let's give them the power to call off MPs, captains, mayors and presidents, give them the power to call off laws, government regulations, give them the power to adopt laws, and then let the citizens decide for themselves which one of us is right. And believe that even if citizens decide otherwise than my opinion, I will be satisfied, because our work is to do the will of citizens, and in that case I have no problem submitting to a democratic decision. That, of course, is something which, of course, terrifies much of the politicians so far. As we know, it scares not only those who are here quite openly but also legitimately representing elitist, wealthy financial groups, simply people pseudo-elected, but also the gangs who built political business, such as the pirát, who have shown themselves to be the real enemy of the real functioning referendum law, and yet boasts in the media that Okamur has prevented the people from adopting a functional version of the referendum, according to which citizens could vote as pirate elitist voters promised. Indeed, the fight against democracy is typical of the pirát, and what is surprising is that the Czech public who wants democracy does not see the anti-democratic direction of the pirát. Here I would like to quote President Ivan Bartoš, who answered the question on the referendum law on TV Nova, and I quote: "We have given it a reasonable framework. With social democracy to keep those wild dreams from the SPD. So the proposal that the House is debating excludes the possibility of voting on membership of the Alliance or EU membership, and we have also managed to stop a vision where the government could convene referendums." Now let me quote from the Pirates program that the pirát have on their website today. I quote: "We will consistently replace the system of division of power in the Republic and at European level between the old structures with democracy. Democracy requires direct choice and the possibility of recalling leaders, legislative initiative, referendums and involving citizens in all stages of the preparation and approval of legislation." Furthermore, I quote from the Pirates' programme: "A binding referendum at the level of the whole state, regions and municipalities. The citizens will decide on proposals for legislative initiative or fundamental proposals from Parliament - in parentheses: changes in constitution, international treaties, membership of international organisations, military bases, etc., end of parentheses." Likewise, the pirát are said to support the rebuttal of politicians and other principles of real democracy. Of course, the real act of the pirát in the House is completely opposite. Pirates make promises to their constituents here, but they're actually lying and promoting the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand when parties of rich elites, such as ODS and TOP 09, openly reject referendums because that is the will of their sponsors to represent them. However, parties such as ČSSD, YES or Pirates promised their voters a referendum, and the pirát even in the form proposed by the SPD. Yes, the SPD is the only one in this House that supports and proposes a referendum law that corresponds to our constitution. They confirmed this at the parliamentary seminar and the invited constitutional lawyers that the SPD proposal is the only constitutionally comfortable, since it puts into practice the constitutional principle that the power in this country is in the hands of all the people. There are a lot of decent people in this House who not only consider themselves democrats, but I also believe that they want to be these democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more will make you democrats than to share the power now held by the House and the government with the real owners of this country, the citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u7	Thank you, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamur. In the debate, with a factual remark, Mr Michálek. A point of fact, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u8	I'll respond to the speaker's speech. We are discussing the implementing law on the law on a slippery mandate, not a referendum, so I do not understand why the speaker has not been led in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the subject of this meeting, which is really the subject: the implementing law on a sliding mandate. [[10.40 hours]] To react in fact, because not only one insult has been put forward here, but a whole bunch of insults, we have a referendum in the long-term programme, and it is, of course, a long-term programme, it is a gradual process, and it cannot be put into effect from one day to the next, it is clear to everyone. That is why we also have an electoral programme where, before each election, we are promising what we are going to promote, and that is what we are sticking to, Mr President. So I would beg you to insult the other political parties here, that we built a business on something, that we lie, that we have an anti-democratic direction. I really think that this is already on the verge of what the mandate and immune committee should be discussing. That's the way I think... This is simply purely demagogical manner which does not belong in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. So who's next for the debate? President Tomio Okamura and Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u10	Well, let's do it again, because, Prime Minister Michálek, you're not a member of the Constitutional Commission, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u11	Mr Vice-President, by my means, address the Members...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u12	Yes, yes, by your means, I'm sorry. Yes, you are in the program, so we will repeat it over and over again a hundred times, that you want to allow a referendum on citizens and on membership of international organisations, or in the EU and in NATO. You were the first, basically along with other parties, who, when we talked about the referendum law, said they wanted to throw it out so that citizens could not vote on EU membership and referendum. Yes, so you tricked the voters and betrayed the program. Compare this with the SPD that did not give way to this programme, and on the contrary, we insist on it and we have our own version of the referendum, even to your common agreement of other parties, where you threw it away so that citizens can vote on Czech membership in the EU, so we have made an active amendment that is put in place to allow Members to vote on our amendments here in the House, and you will probably reject it by your votes of the pirát so that citizens cannot vote on EU membership. [[unintelligible]] So it's a real activity and a fight for the program if you want to follow it. But I understand, I understand, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, that you are talking about compromises, I understand. But we cannot compromise at least by not putting an amendment on principle issues. So either this is not a fundamental question for you in the case of the referendum law, and say it: Yes, so that citizens can vote on EU membership and NATO, it is not a fundamental question for us, so we put it out there, we have agreed to this compromise because it is not a fundamental question. It's okay, I'm not gonna be mad at you, but that didn't happen here. It's your program, you just have your constituents. But that's the way to put it, frankly, because you can see exactly when that mirror is going to be set, because I remember your election campaign, and mine. Your topic, too, was that you were talking about a direct democracy, but the deed escaped. The deed has escaped, and it just isn't. And neither is that changeling of yours, nor is there any form here. So I'm saying again, there's no compromise in principle things. I understand that compromises can be made on a lot of things, but at least by putting it in some kind of changeling to vote on it, and showing your will, that's what you could do. So let us be straight: yes, it is not a priority for us so that citizens can vote on EU membership and NATO, which is why we did not put it there, because we think that something else is needed in the referendum. Well, it's okay. So it just turns out that for you, what you're writing in the program, this particular thing is not a priority, you had it there, and now you're not insisting on it. That's all. And there's no need to toss around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u13	Thank you. Now a point of fact... Madame, I'm registering you, but a point of fact comes first. Mr Kopřiva with a point of fact, then Mrs Valachová. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really do not want to prolong this discussion, I just want to remind you that, as Vice-President Okamura here compares the systems of democracy on various sides and, for example, on his own side of the conference, that is, their highest body, the President is convened. Members shall be admitted and fired by the President, regional clubs shall be authorised and cancelled by the President, regional representation shall be approved and withdrawn only by the President, the Internal Rules and the Programme shall be approved by the President and convened by the President and managed by the Conference, and if not, he shall instruct how to select its delegates. So it's just about how different sides work, and they're here to enforce if they're not hypocritical. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u15	Thank you. I am a tolerance myself, but since it was a performance with a priority right with Okamura, I could not limit it to his performance and I also respected that colleague Kopřiva responded to the performance in a different way than the subject of the hearing. So now, with Radim Fiala's priority right, and she's still waiting for my colleague Valachová. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u16	Yes, yes, I will respond, through you, Mr President, to Mr Kopřiva. Of course, but if you had read the statutes further, Mr Member, through Mr President, you would have seen that all the things you have read here, besides the President, are also being set up by regional and local clubs. That means they have the essence of the entire statute. And if they're not functional, then the chairman is doing it, because someone has to do it. But the main point: there is the so-called principle of subsidiarity in these statutes, which means that we are deciding on the lowest possible levels, and then only if one of the institutions is not operational can the President represent it. So that's why it's there, my colleague, to make the whole structure work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u17	So, we have explained the next step, and we are now going back to the debate on press 965, with the speech of Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u18	As Chair of the Permanent Commission for the Institute, I would just like to say briefly that the press we are discussing is intended to ensure the functionality of a sliding mandate. Of course, it concerns the Constitution, which ultimately concerns everything here, so we can also talk about the referendum, as President Okamura began. I would just like to say very strongly that we have reached agreement on a referendum on the basis of a permanent commission on the Constitution as well as on a slippery mandate. And I will certainly be happy to support - and I think that other colleagues across the political spectrum - to deal with the referendum at the next meeting, to move it forward as well as the slippery mandate, and that will put an end to all the debates, and on this point we will discuss what has succeeded and failed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u19	There. I will also be happy if the referendum law has such a priority. I don't see anyone else reporting to the debate. In the debate, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u20	So I will return to this press with permission, because I think that this trip to the democratism of the statutes of individual political parties was interesting and informative in many ways, I might even copy some of these things, but it is not entirely related to the press under discussion. I actually want to ask the whole House a little bit of a question if... under what circumstances we want this press to go on because we are in a situation similar to that in which we have been around the Supreme Audit Office in the past, and perhaps even more typical here. Of course, this is a bill that almost exclusively regulates relations between the Chamber of Deputies and the Government. This means that the upper chamber may not be too much for us to talk to, but we have experienced it even now, even in the electoral law, that it sometimes has this tendency. And if we wanted to send both prints at the same time, we're putting the Senate in a difficult situation because they have any time at the Institute. They have any time to change the constitution, it just depends when they get to it. On the contrary, if we send them our Rules of Procedure, where there is no amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate or anything else, there is a 30-day deadline for the Senate to discuss. So we could get into a relatively obscure situation that we will not have a constitutional amendment, at the same time we will have, for example, that the Senate will express its will not to dwell. At the same time, we will have an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which will in fact be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. So, in my opinion, either there has to be an agreement with the upper chamber that they will discuss both prints simultaneously and discuss them in those 30 days, or we can't let this press go into third reading or until the third reading vote before the constitutional amendment passes through the slippery mandate of the upper chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u21	Thank you. Now a colleague of Černohorský. I think you, Mr rapporteur, have said exactly the same thing. I share it because I don't think there's any other way to do it. My colleague, Černohorský, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u22	Thank you for the floor. In this case, I would like to proceed in a similar way to the SAO Act, that we would actually interrupt the hearing just before the final vote in the third reading, because as I have experience from the Senate, at that point they will want to know how it will actually work, what it will look like, why you didn't send us, what it will look like, while at the SAO at this point they know exactly what state we're going to send it to them, and the negotiations have become significantly more effective on the floor of the Senate, so in an appropriate way I would possibly proceed here. We wouldn't have prepared this until just before the final vote, where we'll cut it off, and we can send an adjustment to the Senate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u23	Thank you. We are still in the debate, now the representatives of the appellants, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u24	Colleagues, colleagues, I am responding to the debate. Of course, we discussed whether or not to shorten the deadline between the first reading and the second reading of this press, what possible complications it has, but I think, after a mature reflection, that we should eventually proceed to shortening the time between the first reading and the second reading, so I am giving a procedural proposal to shorten the deadline between the first reading and the second reading to 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u25	As a plaintiff, okay. Now with the factual remark of Marek Benda, then Mrs Válková. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u26	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when a person makes a mistake, he is to confess to it, but apologize to me for being designated by the rapporteur only two minutes before the beginning of the hearing. Now the doctor from our legislation has warned me that the amendment to the electoral law is also part of this amendment. This means that we are in the regime of Article 40 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and there is no time for the Senate to discuss this press, so we can follow the procedure proposed by Mrs Valachová. I apologize to the Chamber of Deputies for making a mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u27	Thank you. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u28	I would like to propose a reduction to 30 days, so this is an alternative proposal to 20. Okay, well, in any case, I'm not dropping my proposal and I'm going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u29	For periods between second and third readings, the rule shall apply, which shall be reduced by 30 days or other shortenings with the agreement of the applicant. Another motion for a vote was submitted by the representatives of the appellants, so it is evident that it is admissible with the agreement of the appellant. Therefore, the proposal by colleague Helena Válková is also voteable, so, of course, if one or none passes, the Chamber of Deputies will decide. I ask, who else to discuss the matter at first reading? Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u30	I will now show great confidence in the fact that, arithmetically or numerically, Mr Michálek is right, who warns me that this would not work out. I think it would work out, and we'd have more time to do it, but with that in mind - and I'm saying in front of the House - that I believe him, so I'm downloading my proposal, and I'm going to vote for 20 days. I think 30 days would be worth it, but I'm downloading my proposal with confidence that it's true that the 30 days could be in a tense border situation for too long, so I'm downloading it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-004-060.u31	Okay. Who's next in the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Counselor of the plaintiffs? It's not like that. The rapporteur? It's not like that. There was no motion to return or to refuse, so we will deal with the motion for a commandment submitted to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee other than constitutional law? It's not like that. We're going to vote 321, but I'm going to check you out first and ask you for a new registration. I will rejoin so that, if necessary, colleagues can come back to the House. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. That should be the constitutionally-legal committee. I've started voting number 321 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 321, 87 for 84, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose that this press be directed to other committees. Does anyone have a proposal for other committees? It's not like that. Then there was a motion to shorten the deadline to 20 days. It is a proposal with the agreement of the appellant, it is a voteable proposal. The second proposal was withdrawn. We're going to decide the number 322 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 322, from 89 in favour of 60, against 16. The proposal was adopted, the time limit for committee discussions was reduced to 20 days. I can therefore say that we have completed the first reading. I thank the appellant, thank you to the rapporteur, and I repeat that this press has been ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee and the time limit for discussion has been set for 20 days. I'm done with point 60. The next item is the item number
