ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u1	335. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 992/ - third reading Minister Adam Vojtěch and rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, who is the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 992/4, which was delivered on 28 April 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 992/5. I ask the Minister if he wants to speak before the debate is opened? That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased that this absolutely crucial draft of the Czech Health Act for Czech patients has taken place. I would like to briefly revisit it and summarize the basic content, which clearly leads to an improvement in the functioning of the public health insurance system. The proposal contains, in particular, a new revision of the review of the conditions for reimbursement of health services, in which the regulation unites the decision-making process of health insurance undertakings, accelerates the procedure and improves the procedural status of insured persons. From other areas, I can also recall increasing the availability of highly innovative medicines and orphan medicinal products to be achieved by adjusting the rules for the entry of medicinal products and foodstuffs for special medical purposes into the system of public health insurance payments, as well as increasing the availability of medical devices, by updating the payment groups of medical devices prescribed for vouchers and updating the payment regulation of orthodontic performances and dental and orthodontic products. Several amendments have been loaded as part of the second reading. The Ministry of Health has a positive view of some of these amendments, on the contrary, and on some of them they have a negative view. Allow me, at least in general, to prioritize some of the problems that the Ministry perceives in connection with the amendments. In particular, this concerns the amendment to the introduction of the so-called Dispensation Tax and Amendment F1, which concerns the decision-making process of health insurance companies. The adoption of Amendment F1 can cause major problems in practice. This amendment specifically concerns the composition and number of review commissions and the patient's consent to submit an application to a health insurance undertaking. In the case of large health insurance companies, the number of appeals filed is in the order of hundreds per year, with the General Health Insurance Corporation more than a thousand. The Government's proposal allows for the setting up of more review committees so that all such appeals can be dealt with in time and dealt with. On the contrary, the amendment only provides for the establishment of one such commission. From our point of view, this could really lead to this one committee being overwhelmed and thus logically extending the entire appeal process within the health insurance company. This means that, in this respect, we think that one health committee will not be able to decide those large amounts of appeals within the time limits laid down in the Administrative Code, there will be delays and, of course, often at the expense of the treatment of patients. Patients may also have a significant disadvantage in making their applications subject to their consent. Cases where the patient cannot temporarily give consent cannot be ruled out. The adoption of the amendment would therefore mean delay in assessing the entitlement to reimbursement of treatment. Its approval does not mean that it will also be granted. This can only happen with the patient's informed consent under the Health Services Act. I would remind you that this problem will most often be related to patients who are very ill. The health insurance companies addressed in this matter also had identical reservations on this amendment. As regards Amendment A11, it proposes to introduce into the law the so-called dispensation tax for dispensing the medicinal product. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, the wording of this proposal is completely unspecific and does not stand up in relation to legislative requirements for what can be laid down in implementing legislation and what can be regulated directly in the law. The Ministry of Health is empowered by the proposal to issue an implementing decree setting out the conditions for payment of the dispensation tax, but there is no definition of the scope of the introduced tax. The reasoning of the amendment states that the current signaling performance set out in the relevant decree is non-systemic, but the proposed tax brings the same mechanism and is therefore burdened with the same degree of non-systematicness. Given that this is an issue on which there is no consensus, even within the professional public, legislative anchoring in the form of an amendment can be considered inappropriate. In this respect, it appears that the adjustment to change the way in which drug care is financed should be passed through a standard legislative process. I shall, if necessary, comment on further amendments in the context of the discussion. I would like to thank all Members for their interest in this proposal and repeat it again, this bill is a fundamental systemic change for Czech health care, for Czech patients who are waiting for it and I will be glad if it is approved very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u3	Thank you. I have a few excuses here. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from today's meeting for the entire working day, for the reasons of work, Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologises from 10 to 12 hours for the reasons of work. I'm opening the debate. Is the rapporteur interested in speaking in the debate? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just thank everyone for all the amendments that have come in for a very technical and fruitful debate on the Committee on Health. I believe that it should be recalled that this law 48 is an absolutely essential law for health care. He's touching all things. I would like to remind you that it addresses the very new entry of some subjects into decision-making and significantly makes some other services in terms of ophthalmology or orthodontics available here, so I think it will really be for the benefit of our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u5	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the Minister what the estimated costs of this law are for the public health insurance system. We are aware that there are a number of very good changes in it, but I would like to know how the cost that this law will bring is calculated, because these payments can actually be quite substantial there, so I am interested in how it is calculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u7	The Minister wishes to speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u8	Thank you. I'll respond. I know this debate has also been held on the Health Committee. Of course, these costs cannot be calculated precisely because new and new molecules are coming in, new and new drugs are still available. So at this point, we can't say what in a year, in two, in three, will be available for, say, medicine for rare diseases. [[12.30 hours]] But I dare say that these costs will not be significantly higher, because today, insurance companies, if they are paying these medicines for very rare diseases or really some innovative medicines, the only way a patient can get to them is to ask for them through the so-called Section 16 for individual remuneration. In such a case, the insurance company has no room for price negotiation, the drug is not categorized in any way, it is not subject to any revision in time. That means the insurance company will pay for the drug, as it is, within the scope of the application under Section 16. What we're proposing, if this proposal passes, is that all these drugs will go through the standard process, be categorized, and it will therefore be possible to conclude some agreements on the highest price with insurance companies. The drug will, of course, be subject to revision in time, that is, if it turns out that there is a higher price within the reference that is being made with other European countries, the SÚKL will review the remuneration. On the contrary, in this respect, it may be that we will actually keep those costs in check against the current situation in which the insurance company pays the price on the basis of Section 16 as the company offers it, and there is no possibility of reducing the remuneration. So I think that really in this direction the system is better, it's standardized against the current state of affairs, and so we don't suppose that the costs should be significant. After all, this has also been discussed with health insurance companies that have expressed their consent to this, and I think that health insurance companies are often very cautious about spending in the public health insurance system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u9	Thank you. The debate is attended by Mrs Brzobohatá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u10	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to speak to my amendment on the supplement of the bionic prosthetics. Believe me, no one in this room knows more about prosthetics than I do. At present, people get a prosthesis after the amputation and have a supplement of 1%. But bionic legs, which greatly improve the quality of life, which actually simulate walking and can move a person forward, so there is currently an additional fee of CZK 25,000, and that is what a person who needs to be retired cannot afford. I have a lot of signals that people are rejecting these legs. So we agreed with the health insurance companies that we'd put up a maximum of 1 per cent, which is a supplement of about 4,500. So I would very much like to ask for your support, because this is a significant improvement in people's lives after amputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u11	Thank you. Mr. Válek Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I am extremely pleased that the law is being discussed at third reading and that it may be approved and valid during this parliamentary term. A lot of these things have been said here, and I'd like to follow up on that. On the one hand, I would like to say that we in the opposition, from the coalition of the SPOL, support Mrs Brzobohatá amendment, because we believe that the bionic prosthetics are really extremely important and important. I have to say, my experience, when I was doing a Rehapr evaluation of the aids, this was one of the biggest benefits for patients, and it's making life so much easier for them. However, I would like to mention the economy and the price, because the law has two problematic areas from our point of view. The first one is the definition of patient organizations. I would very much like to support Mr Benda and Žáček's amendment here, because we believe that this will simplify the discussion of the law in the next stages, and I think that this is a good amendment that gives all organisations the opportunity to become full-fledged in the debate, and yet it does not deprive anyone of its rights. Far more important from my point of view, because it is my amendment, is the economy. I'd be a little bit more skeptical than the Minister, with regard to costs, because, as far as central treatment is concerned, the estimates, even if they were somewhere around 4 billion, could be worth it, I think the reality is 6, maybe 7 billion. That's a good thing, I'm not criticizing it, but I see it as a positive thing, because it's a good thing when more of our citizens get to central treatment. In addition, next year in the second half of the year, we will have an extraordinary chance to speak to the price of central medicines, and I think that the role of the Czech Republic is well to prepare for this so that we can lobby it so that we can promote the most advantageous and interesting model within the European Union for small countries such as the Czech Republic, which have the problem of having a language that is not international and where packaging must be in Czech and so on. All these conventions, you all realize what you're dealing with. However, my amendment, which I would like to draw attention to, and this will be the end of it, whether I delay for a long time, is an amendment that concerns increasing the availability of modern treatment, or its reimbursement. What I see the problem is that the remuneration is not only linked to the financial condition of insurance companies. I fully realise that this is an absolutely crucial parameter here, which is why I believe that there will still be an increase in the remuneration for state policy holders during this period and that we will be discussing this here, but it is only on the economic situation and the condition of insurance companies, as they will be able or will not be able to pay. However, it is not entirely good for this to be linked to the state budget, so my amendment that these parameters relate only to the condition in which the economy of health insurance companies is fit - if it is good for approval to be more flexible, let's say, and for the benefit of patients, from a medical point of view, the drugs that benefit from the recommendations of professional societies get here more quickly; If the condition is not good, then I think that in this House after four years we are all more than realists and we realize that then, of course, those insurance companies can't pay for what they won't have. But really the link with the state budget, or the state budget, is not a happy solution, and it can lead to a significant delay in the availability of drugs for certain groups of patients with rare diseases, and I would very much hate to do that. So I would like very much to support this amendment in the category F8 to F12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u13	I have a factual point here, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really only need those two minutes, because I have already said so in my country at the MP's club, that I point out that, given how the legislative preparation of the change developed, when the publicly beneficial companies fell out of the patient organizations and became organizations that have to transform, which cannot be done legally, even in the extended term, they would have to cease their activities and establish a new legal form. Thus, for these reasons, where I believe this is an unpredictability which these organizations, including the important organisations such as Alzheimer's society, the Gerontological Society and others, could not count on, and I recommend and vote in favour of Mr Pavel Žáček's proposal as an agent of the Government for human rights, which recommends the status of a patient organisation not only to registered associations but also to other forms of nonprofit organizations that help patients and defend their interests in the long term, even though this is not recommended by the Health Committee or by the guarantor. The Treasury has a neutral position here. I think that this is a misconception and that unfortunately the proposed solution to transform into one year is legally unrealistic. This leads me to this perhaps for some of my colleagues and colleagues a surprising warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u15	Thank you. Mr. Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u16	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak in the same spirit as my esteemed previous speaker. I know we are pressed for time, I am not an expert in health care, and it is not my custom to speak on this subject, but I would like to speak in the same spirit as my colleague maybe with a request, perhaps with an appeal, to the present Minister. He may have correctly noted that during the previous Minister's initiative, the parliamentary initiative had entered into this bill on a matter relating to patient organisations. Among other things, it would practically mean that in the future, these patient organisations, whose list has already been said before me by Mrs Válková, could only have the legal form of associations, which is probably not just me, but I hope that we really see most of this Chamber of Deputies as completely discriminatory and winding up, because they really could not express their interests through these existing legal forms towards the Ministry of Health or Insurance. For this reason, Mr Marek Benda's proposal has appeared among the amendments, or submitted by Mr Pavel Žáček, and I would like to ask you not only to support this amendment, but perhaps also to call on the present Minister, who probably has nothing to do with this proposal, if he could say his position on the microphone, because, in our view, it is actually discriminatory and extremely disadvantageous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u17	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Mr. Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u18	Thank you. Yes, all these last factual remarks concern one thing, and I also want to talk to it, because the problem of patient organisations is a problem that is very, very fundamental in medicine. Communication with someone who has the protection of the rights and interests of patients as a major activity is a very, very important thing, and we are constantly staggering about it, so defining who can do it is very complicated. I would like to draw everyone's attention, including the Minister, to the fact that the variant presented by my colleague Žáček is an option which is, in principle, very general. They only talk about what kind of activity such an organization is supposed to do, and it doesn't matter if it's the company of patients, citizens or those close to the disabled. According to the Civil Code, they should in principle have a decisive influence on this procedure. Therefore, the G proposal is really very important because it gives a general level for us to accept these organisations, and believe me, this is a very important thing for patients, especially for some special diseases, for childhood diseases and for diseases that have the character of permanent damage to the patient. There are very complex interests and we need to let the patient's opinion in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u19	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes from 12.30 pm to the end of the morning meeting for work reasons. I have three new applications for the debate. Mr Třešňák, then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u20	Have a nice noon. I would like to ask for the support of the amendment under the letter H, which is intended to ensure that insured people really have free access to health services covered by public health insurance, and thus ensure that, in connection with the use of these services, only payments made by the Public Health Insurance Act are required, because the existing wording of the insured's law does not protect enough in this respect, for two reasons. First of all, the provisions of Section 11 (1) themselves. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) it is formulated in such a way that a number of situations that occur in practice do not fall directly and can only be referred to by interpretation. Secondly, it is not precisely from the amendment made by Act No. 369/2011 is subject to no penalties, and therefore it is illegal to act, but health service providers are essentially inextricable for it by means of public law, while the protection of insured persons with private law means is difficult to implement in these cases due to the low illegally selected amounts and it is also difficult to prove that there is evidence. Therefore, I propose tightening up that part of the law so that it clearly protects the insured and also that any unlawful behaviour has clear sanctions. Here I would also like to add that, on the basis of the discussion held during the discussion on this proposal to the Health Committee, we have further clarified that the new rule concerning the prohibition of distinction between insured persons and other patients will apply only if, as a result of the conduct of the provider, the availability of paid services for insured persons is impaired, so that the negotiations that do not lead to the deterioration of the availability of paid services for insured persons are not affected by the proposed provision. Which, in fact, I thank my colleague from the Health Committee for discussing this between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u21	Thank you. Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate, and Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u22	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, by the way, you are the only one here. What has already been said are patient organizations. There I think there has already been a consensus, for which I am very glad that there will be no discrimination against those who have a different legal form. I very much wish that the amendment, which also allows registered institutions and generally beneficial companies to participate fully, should go through. We have made the same proposal on behalf of the pirát ourselves, and we will also support the proposal tabled by Mr Žáček, Mr Benda, as a matter of fact. So this has already been widely discussed, it is important. However, I would like to recall two amendments. One positive, namely, support for university-educated midwifes within the public health insurance system, as is common in Western countries, as is common according to many and many studies that show the safety of such care provided to university-educated health professionals. [[is]] It is an amendment under the letter J1, which would move us to allow doctors and doctors to fully engage in so-called pathology, situations where there is a need for intervention, and vice versa, so that midwifes can deal with the births that are taking place physiologically. In the situation that is now, it should change so that it is reimbursed by the health insurance company. What's going on? We need to lighten up the overloaded health system and we do not need a doctor's or doctor's indication in the care of prenatal and postpartum, in support of breastfeeding, in support of six Sundays, in support of home visits and so on. That's what this J1 proposal is about, because today women are six Sundays, except for exceptions left without systemic care. Again, medical medical personnel are overloaded and specialized health professionals are used in other health systems to support not only good preparation and good careful checks and continuous care by one person during the prenatal period, but also during the postpartum period. Visits at home in some countries are even complementary to those professional ones, alongside those health inspection, nursing visits, offering services that we would call housekeeping, which we would call home help. I just want to show where other countries are, like Holland, that they offer maximum aid at six Mondays. We could at least allow this amendment J1, so that health care professionals, university-educated midwifes can advise on breast-feeding, on the care of the newborn, and possibly control, for example, the healing of birth wounds in women and on home visits without a doctor's indication. [[12.50 hours]] And when I presented this one proposal that would allow freedom of choice for those they want, it would lighten the overloaded health system, so let me just sum up on this amendment really briefly that there is still an important aspect - mental health. This support and systemic support also reduces the number of mental difficulties in the postpartum period. Please, let's not take this lightly, it's a really important part of caring for a parent and a child, visiting at home after childbirth. The second aspect on which I wish to comment is related to the amendment under A8. I'll be very brief to make it. I just want to emphasise: it is a major threat to mental health centers. Unfortunately, the proposal under the letter A8 threatens today's further developed mental health centers, which are a community character on the socio-health border and reduces the number of people in need of hospitalization. I'll be very brief to make it. [[Voices from the diaper that won't make it.]] I don't suppose it's a goal if the deal is that we'll continue after 13:00?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u23	There's no such deal, I'll respect the habit of ending at 1:00. I have two more factual points and a whole performance. We will be happy to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u24	Okay, I just wanted to give a really brief presentation of the fact that the letter A8, this amendment, would put mental health centers in serious jeopardy. I will highlight one aspect: mental health centres usually have two founders and one of them provides health and other social services. Now, in fact, the legislation that is proposed would order that the provider also have the right to provide health services and registration for the provision of social services, should do so at the same time. While two founders often work together today, it is simply an unrealistic condition. On this I wanted to show how specifically this would endanger mental health centers. And the last thing I'm going to say is, unfortunately, what else would also be harmful, a mandatory adictologist. Although we could all wish for an adictologist to be present and provide adictological services always, they are not always able to get it at the mental health center. So for realistic reasons, it would be an aspect that would jeopardize that. Thank you for your attention to consider not supporting A8 and, on the contrary, support for J1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u25	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Kasal, then a point of fact, Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I must comment on what has been said here on Amendment J1. First, the education of midwifes has fewer than tens to hundreds of hours of pediatric problems in order to feed and breast-feed newborns. Secondly, the reality is completely different because there is a system of lactation counselors who are trained here in Prague in Krč. The system is based on nursing care, it is related to the care of practical physicians for children and adolescents and works independently, where the mothers can make a call and the sister will come home or come to her. And thirdly, as far as the system is concerned, there's been a five or ten-time medical emergency here. My colleague, as far as pediatrics are concerned, there is no overload.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u27	Thank you. Mr Plzák withdrew his point of order, but Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Svoboda came forward. Real notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to my colleague Kasal, because I really do not understand his campaign against midwifes. I think the midwife in this country is doing a great job and it would be a big shift if we could get their activities into the public health insurance system. Many parents have very good experiences with them, and I don't understand why you're making it so easy. I think they're mostly women who do a very good job, and there's absolutely no reason to attack them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u29	Thank you. Mr Svoboda, then Mrs Richterová, factual remarks And it's obvious that we're not going to make it to 1:00 and the point will be interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u30	This is where the dispute arose between Mrs Richterová and Mr Kasal. I very much understand this argument because it is a dispute about the area that makes birthing women, midwifes on the one hand, and they always did it because the midwifes in the time before had a duty to visit the Sundays. We sent them, went there, and actually took care of their mothers - how they healed their postpartum injuries, and how they behaved breasts, whether they were ragadoes or something, so it was part of the activities of midwifes. But there's this other activity that my colleague Richterová is piercing, it's a matter of breast-feeding and the welfare of a child. This is, of course, a question that has long been provided by children's sisters who have a separate specialization for newborn sisters. The specialty is that, in a way, midwifes don't know her. That's the dispute that's there, I understand. Both ways are possible, but it will mean that midwifes would have to increase their education in the field of child care or, on the contrary, children's sisters would have to deal with the issue of obstetrics. From this point of view, from my point of view, as an obstetrician who's been doing this his whole life, it's disrupting something that's worked and worked here. That means, as long as the woman is pregnant, she's in the obstetric area. The moment she gives birth, it splits into two parts. One is the midwife and the other is the newborn. We should each give what we want. That's my opinion as a person who's spent his whole life dealing with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u31	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, a point of fact. Then Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u32	Thank you. Here, I believe, there are opinions from practice, but untrue in relation to the law. In Decree No. 55/2001 Coll., on the activities of health care workers, it is just stated that the midwife is entitled to take care of the pregnant, the mother and the newborn in six months, and can therefore cover a period of six months. And so, if we take code 06211, visit pregnant and mother at six o'clock, the woman within this code is entitled to three visits at six o'clock from the midwife, except - and that's what I'm after - this code is linked to the doctor's indication, gynecologist, obstetrics. And that's the dispute, paying off health insurance companies without a doctor's indication. Because what does that mean today? That a woman at six o'clock who should be home with a child has to go somewhere and get a request, or she has to be done, which is really not easy. And these two options can simply be avoided by declaring this proposal - what is already in force in Decree No. 55/2011 Coll., on the activities of health professionals, namely the theoretical authorisation of midwifes to care for both the wife and the child at six Sundays, we will fulfill in practice by not paying for it, paid privately. And one more comment: about half of the women in six Sundays have breast-feeding problems. Again, today's lactating counsellor usually pays for the women themselves. My goal is to make community care accessible and to implement in practice a decree that is already in force today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u33	Thank you. Mr Kasal, then Mr Pávek. We've got one left, I guess... I'll break it off after this de facto one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I've gotten used to it from my fellow Pirate Party colleagues that someone would say something and someone else would say it. Yesterday someone else apologized about brainwashing, someone else is defending it today. So I will now comment on Mr Ferjenčík and Mrs Richterová. Please, I respect your idea, on the other hand, it has been said here and from my fellow Svoboda, there's something that works here, and I'm not pulling against midwifes. I'm just saying, what practice they have and what education they have, that's all. When they do, they can do it, but on your part, it feels like a full lobby, nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u35	Thank you. Since it's 1:00 p.m., I'm declaring a lunch break. We'll continue at 14.30. For the members of the Organizing Committee: although I originally called a meeting because part of the members of the Organising Committee asked me to do so, however, I canceled the meeting because I received signatures to convene an emergency meeting and that meeting would be useless. [[of the Organising Committee]] So there's no organizational committee. Thank you. I'll meet you at 2:30. Mr. Benda has something else to tell you on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I am merely recalling a meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee right downstairs in '55 to the House press in a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-006-335.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 14.30, so I will begin the afternoon agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll read the apologies first. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons and further apologises to Mrs Tatjan Malá today between 14.30 and 18 hours on a business trip. So we're going to go to the first point. This is about
