ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u1	2. Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended /German press 1144/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 1144/1. I ask that Mrs Lenka Dražilová make a proposal for the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová, amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, and is led as House Press 1144. The Government has given a favourable opinion on this proposal. One of the areas covered by the Social Services Act is the care allowance. The aim of this benefit is to enable the person to help purchase services to ensure the basic needs of the layman, mostly a family member, or a professional, as long as possible to remain in the natural home environment and, if necessary, where assistance is no longer possible using field services, this contribution is one of the sources for financing residential services. The Social Services Act differentiates the amount of the care allowance not only with regard to the severity of the dependence, but also with regard to the age of the dependant or the way in which the care is provided. You will recall that it was not so long ago that this House was discussing an increase in the care allowance. It was from the Senate initiative, and we were discussing an increase in the fourth degree care allowance. Finally, during the approval process, there was an increase in both the third and fourth levels. What is important is the agreed differentiation of the amounts of the allowance for the care of persons at these levels of dependence, depending on whether they use or do not benefit from social services. It is true that, from the outset, he was opposed by a significant spectrum of service providers. The proposed parliamentary proposal - and I really appreciate the fact that the representatives of six Members' clubs present it - proposes the abolition of the differentiation of the amounts of the care allowance for persons in the degree of dependence of three and four. Therefore, the amount of the allowance will no longer affect the use of the person or the use of the resident social services. The proposed legislation, of course, envisages an impact on the state budget. According to the Research Institute of Labour and Social Affairs it is for example. in the residential services of about 20 000 clients with a contribution to third degree care and 20,000 clients with a contribution to fourth grade care. The increase in residential services will mean almost CZK 3.4 billion. I consider it important to point out that if there were no increase in the care allowance even in the case of residential services, as is the case in the proposal, only illegal providers, which we still have about 70, while legal registered homes would not be affected, would benefit from it widely. [[17,00 hours]] It is also important to note that the extension of the increased contribution to care and residence services is not contrary to the principle of support for people in terms of the longest possible stay in the natural environment or support for family carers, as they will still have a higher contribution according to the proposal. The adoption of the proposal will mean more addressable and therefore fairer and systemically cleaner financing for residential services. The proposed legislation is in accordance with the international treaties to which the Czech Republic is bound. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to support this proposal, the effectiveness of which has been established since 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr David Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd just like to make a note, and I'd have my news report very short. The petitioner has shown us the basic thesis of the Social Services Act, which is intended to bring new quality for many of our citizens. For me, it is important to discuss these changes in the social committee, and I therefore give the opportunity for other Members to express themselves and then to decide to discuss in the committee where this law belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Minister Maláčová is the first party to the general debate. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. I support this and the following law in terms of content and principle. You probably know that these are both proposals from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs workshop that we've been preparing for the last two years. Unfortunately, there was no consensus on them in the government, so it took so long to prepare. However, Members have borrowed them, these proposals, and they have tabled them as parliamentary proposals. I think there is no point in commenting on this method, the important thing is that the purpose justifies the means, which is why I am glad that these proposals are being discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, while colleagues at the Ministry are joking that we should check the diplomas for all the applicants, but it is really just a joke. The important thing is that the individual parameters will then be adjusted, so I would also like to ask you to move both proposals to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u7	Thank you and Mrs Richterová is signed up for the debate, Mr Beitl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. The topic that we are talking about, the theme of this proposal, actually the unification of the amount of the contribution, the contribution to care in residential facilities with the care of the field, when a person is at home or so-called in the community, is actually here because it was originally a Senate proposal, and I think it's fair to say, the Senate proposal of the ČSSD, which proposed to favour the care at home. And now I want to ask what really changed. Because in this House, we just accepted this increase two and a half years ago, I don't know, it's been for some time - and what actually changed against that time, according to you, the petitioners, except that, of course, it turns out that different residence services have different certain or uncertain financing and make it difficult for them. I can't argue with that. It would just be more comfortable for them to have the higher care allowance. But I want to ask you, when we're here a large part of the people that caused this situation, that there's more support for home and field care, so what happened, what arguments you, colleagues, convinced you that today we're discussing not going back to the past, but settling the benefits, the care allowance, what the main things are. Because the main idea is to support the possibility of being self-sufficient at home and really free to choose, to have the opportunity to choose the care at home, which I think was the important one here and the main one. And even then, we were actually discussing this, if I remember correctly, that the difference could only be a little bit smaller. So I just want to ask you, this is the first reading, I really understand that there are facilities that provide care, they are residences, they are dependent on the payment of the client, they approached you and explained their situation to you, but perhaps there has not been a settlement at all - and I am thinking, perhaps it will be able to explain to me Mr Kasal or Mrs Dražilová - that there is still a situation that they do not need to be entitled to the care allowance, I give an example, medical facilities. It is a situation where chronically inadequate patients would also be offered in this situation to discuss this change. I know that the care allowance is very laboriously handled by hospices, and that's where it works. And my question is, what convinced you about what, what you said you were going to do with this change, and that the advantage of the terrain and the care at home has stopped making sense to you. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. Mr Petr Beitl, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution to the care that we are discussing at first reading today is intended to contribute to ensuring the social needs of dealing with the basic needs of man. The aim of this benefit, which is provided on the basis of an assessment of these needs, is to allow the provision of services from laymen or professionals and to remain as long as possible in the natural social environment, i.e. at home. Currently, it concerns 360 000 people who take one of its forms, and two thirds of the beneficiaries are seniors over 65 years of age, but the beneficiaries are people of different ages with different health problems, whose socio-economic situation is different, and of course the form and type of support, assistance and care provided is different. The care allowance has increased since 1. 8. 2016 by 10 % and the last increase occurred in 2019, this has already been discussed by colleagues here. This took place from the Senate initiative of the ČSSD and were increased contributions for beneficiaries in third and fourth disability, but only for those users who do not use social housing. The ODS and social service providers disagreed with this solution from the outset. Therefore, I acknowledge that today we have this material on the table and this inequality is, I hope, levelled. The amendment cancels the reduced amount of care allowance in third and fourth levels for users of social services. It is really a system solution, because the need for care is the same according to the acknowledged degree of dependence and does not change through the transition to social services or vice versa. Therefore, there is no reason for the State to support some beneficiaries of the care allowance significantly less than others. Some of these beneficiaries have even secured social services that are not supported from public sources, and therefore we believe that the proposed regulation is a stabilizing element of the financing of residential social services, which also has broad support. I would also like to add that as far as the real use of the contribution is concerned, I must add that there is still no consistent control of its use as opposed to the residence facility where the entire contribution is returned to the system and is used for real field care, where it can occur and is abused to the detriment of the person being treated. There is almost no control from the state's position, the employment authorities in charge are in a deep tilt to task and personnel. For example, in the 500,000 - year - old Jablonec where I live, there is only one clerk in this area. The topic of monitoring the effective use of the care allowance, for example by tightening the criteria for its use, remains another important task in this area. The Czech Republic is one of the two EU countries, which has set the payment of the cash care allowance without the effective control of its use and according to analyses, up to 7 billion funds spent on contributions are not used properly to ensure care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u11	Thank you. Does anyone else report to the debate, to the general debate? The rapporteur, Mr David Kasal, is reporting to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would try to answer Mrs Richterová through you, but I think that is exactly what should be discussed on this committee. From the point of view of health establishments, they are sort of in function and in the phase of payment from general health insurance. And to find the exact boundary that is, we're talking about eldéenka at the moment, where the care is still health and social, that's a difficult task, and I think it's up to the committee to talk about it. So if that's good enough for you, that's my reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u13	Thank you. With Mrs Richterová's point of view. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the reaction, I appreciate it, and I know - yes, it's primarily eldéen. I only have one question. Just originally, I think the idea was to increase the contribution to home care so that it could really work, and the equipment could be easier to finance in a different way. And now I want to ask you, have you considered that when it gets up like this, it's actually going to be very hard to do, like valorize the care allowance to compare it to inflation? I'm just really interested in being able to think that it's completely different to have this house, this housing facility and taking care of people there, and taking care of home. And if we want to talk about a sustainable system for people with severe disabilities, that's gonna be the other press, so we're just gonna have to talk about whether to do a fifth degree or regular inflation valorization, and that actually by expanding it like this, I think you're gonna make the debate harder right from the start. I'm just saying here that I understand that it would be very comfortable for the operators, and many of them I know and do a great job, I'm just thinking that it's actually a really multibillion-dollar thing that's going into circulation by this, and if you've considered how it's going to be tied to at least the fourth degree, in those people completely independent, of the possibility or the impossibility of valorizing with inflation, so that their care contributions de facto don't fall on a regular basis. So that's kind of my conceptual question, because it's a seemingly small point, but it's actually worth a lot of billions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interest in the final words of my appellant, Mrs Dražilová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u16	I would only react very briefly to Mrs Richterová, too. I will stress once again that our proposal addresses a systemically cleaner way of financing. I would say that the will of all of us was to increase field services, and this has not happened significantly in all this time. Furthermore, this has also been said here by Mr Beitl that we have providers of residential services that are registered but are not recipients of subsidies. And I think we should keep the principle that the care allowance is the client's income, the user's income, and he has to decide what service he buys for it. I ask you once again to move this proposal to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. That was the final word. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. There was no motion for a return or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, of course, we will decide on the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? No, we will therefore vote on the commandment of this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. You've been checked out. I've checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 4, 83 Members registered, for 82, against no one. The motion was accepted. The Guarantee Committee will be the Social Policy Committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Are any of the Members suggesting another committee? He's not suggesting. There was no proposal to shorten the deadline, so I note that this proposal will be dealt with by the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee, and I conclude this point. There's a point number in front of us.
