ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended, and some other laws (the House Press 1084/ - First Reading) Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting a government bill amending the law on electronic communications and certain other laws for discussion. The main reason is the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. In accordance with this Directive, the draft law concerns, for example, consumer protection, emergency communications, universal services, price availability of services or access and interconnection. The rules are strengthened, they concern consumers and ambition is to facilitate the change of the service provider, offer better protection, while consumers will have a similar, even higher level of protection throughout the European Union. Such harmonisation concerns, for example, the area of information requirements for contracts, the duration of such contracts, their termination, transparency, disclosure of information, changes in the service provider, Internet access and number portability, or emergency communications. In this area - I mean emergency communication - it is very important from my point of view, I would say a fundamental change that emergency services must be made available not only through calls but also via at least SMS, and if this is technically feasible, also through other means of communication. This amendment requires the adaptation of other laws governing the issue of emergency communications. I also consider it essential to put in place a so-called public warning system through which citizens, for example by SMS messages, can be informed about imminent or imminent emergencies, crisis situations, serious events and so on. In the area of universal service, in accordance with the Code, restrictions on the scope of services that can be imposed within a universal service, adequate access to the Internet at a fixed location, access to voice communication service, also in a fixed place, or access to such services by disabled persons, or, where appropriate, various additional services. Price availability should not be a factor preventing consumers from accessing services and therefore, in accordance with the Code, the definition of persons with special social needs is extended, except for already defined disabled persons and persons with low incomes. The rules on access and interconnection of electronic communications networks are also being modernised, ensuring the predictability of the allocation regulation to operators for at least 20 years in order to support their investments and, beyond the transposition, also regulates the identified problematic aspects of the application practice of certain substantive legislative technical deficiencies. I believe that the bill will benefit, or I am convinced, for citizens, for entrepreneurs. Let me also appreciate the active role of the rapporteur, Mr Jiránek, with whom this has been very factually communicated. I know that he held a number of discussions on the aspects of this law, and I must say that those negotiations were very practical, pragmatic, correct. In addition to the already mentioned need to ensure the most rapid transposition, I would like to ask you, honourable Members, to support the shortening of the deadline for discussing this law in committees within 30 days, including in the light of the European Commission 4. 2. 2021 has launched infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic and 24 other Member States - 25 countries that have not yet introduced new EU rules on electronic communications. It'll help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Martin Jiránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u4	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. The Minister has already said very well the overwhelming majority of what I wanted to say. He summed up the law, he also indicated that the European Union has already started infringement with us, so I am glad that we got it on the agenda. I want to thank my colleagues very much, I will take it alphabetically: Mrs Červíčková, Mr Dolínek, Mr Králíček, Luzar, Martínek, Mašek, Munzar and Nacher, for a very proactive approach to about six to seven subcommittees and round tables, when we were dealing with topics such as a material burden, extending the possibility of detecting mobile devices from the UOHS, an anonymous SIM card and other topics. We discussed this with the MIT, ČTÚ, the Union of Cities and Municipalities and Associations and Market Representatives, of course, so I am really glad that it is here on the agenda. At the same time, right after my opening report, I am reporting to the debate to officially propose a reduction in the time limit for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I've logged your application. I'm opening the debate, and please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u6	Thank you. So, to make this short, I suggest we shorten the deadline for a 30-day hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u7	30 days, even for 30 days. Yes, I did, thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Mr. Vojtěch Munzar reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, all the things that the Minister has said here in his opening words are important. However, I would like to focus your attention on some things that we do not like there and which may mean that the law on electronic communications can create a public concern, and we are concerned that there will also be some kind of loss of privacy, possible electronic monitoring and hacking of personal ownership. I will merely mention that for some, this printing is here to be a medium for the proposal to cancel anonymous cards. I just want to point out that such proposals will complicate the adoption of the standard at third reading. But I particularly want to talk about what the government itself is presenting to us, beyond the transposition of the code for electronic communication. The amendment contains a completely unacceptable proposal for us, so that the Office of Competition can obtain operational and localisation data of mobile phones of entrepreneurs, managers and employees of companies, which the Office saves in administrative proceedings for suspected offences. In my view, the proposed regulation disproportionately interferes with the fundamental right of privacy of the representatives of the companies under investigation, since these mobile phones are also used for private purposes. In my view, there are more moderate and less invasive means by which the UOHS can achieve its objectives, and I fear that this proposal is more motivated by the desire to make work easier, which is a small argument for me to gain such powers, which, from my point of view, belong solely to law enforcement authorities. [[17.50 hours]] I am also afraid that this proposal would create another precedent which would guide other authorities to obtain data on mobile data, on mobile phone data and on citizens' data. And then we could justifiably ask who's next. Already in the Ministry of Health was the idea - luckily the government had no longer submitted it here to the House - to check for epidemic contacts via mobile phones. And who else could be like that? The Labor Office to check to see if they're home with sick people? That's not what any of us want. There could be an avalanche coming out of individual stones that would smash us in, and then there would be no escape. Cell phones are a very good servant, but an evil master. The reason I'm talking about this is because we should try to protect personal data from their abuse. We should also protect them from state power, because freedom is not only threatened by regulations and bans, but also by a mere amount of information, including monitoring by state institutions to control our lives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u9	Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u10	I am glad that they are aware of this, this danger, if not the government, but not only the opposition Members, but also the many government Members I have talked to about it. Therefore, there is the intention of a joint amendment to exclude the relevant paragraph from the amendment of the law. The more I may regret the uncritical attitude of the government that sent it to us. I don't know, she either didn't focus on it, or she didn't evaluate it as a serious thing, but both options are wrong. The government should not test what passes through the Chamber of Deputies here for increasing competence, but it should be on the front line, which will evaluate and prevent threats to privacy. It is precisely because of the possibility for the UOHS to obtain operational and localisation data that I originally wanted to propose to return the amendment to recast, but since there is a joint amendment, I will not propose a return. But I hope that, together with the rapporteur and other colleagues, we will make every effort to remove this part of the draft amendment. The second thing that goes beyond the directive is the possibility of entering foreign real estate, i.e. land or roofs of private houses, for employees of the Czech Telecommunications Office, when detecting sources of interference or to acts, so-called operations, prior inspection. Not just the controls themselves. This is from my point of view another hacking of the protection of private property and an disproportionate and actually impeccable possibility for ČTÚ staff to disrupt private property. During the last parliamentary term in the House, there was a big discussion, which ended with the examination of the Constitutional Court, and this was a breach of private ownership due to the control of boilers, which was the reason for the right to health. That's why the government presented it. Now, unfortunately, we're moving on to hack private property protection because someone has a jammed signal, such as wi-fi. I'm sure that's not right. From my point of view, the proposed amendment in this case is disproportionate and, in particular, unclear. I will try, together with some of you, to look for options and suggestions to remove this, because these are the reasons that would discourage us from adopting this amendment at the end. Moreover, these are proposals, Minister, which are typical gold-plating because they are not a requirement of any directive of the European Union. We are aware that the market is waiting for the adoption of this core standard, which will determine what the electronic communications market will look like for about another ten years, and we are also aware that the amendment proposal brings, besides the things I mentioned, several positive things. But unfortunately, after studying the bill, it is obvious that this is not always a sensitive transposition. Sometimes we are more papal than the Pope when accepting bureaucratic burdens from Brussels, for example. And where the directive allows national discretion, such as refinement of regulation, there unfortunately the gesture of this amendment, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, has not used this. Let us compare what is, for example, the new subject of general authorisation, the competence of the Czech Television, now in spectrum management. Let us often compare nonsensical sanctions not for bad access by operators to consumers and consumer protection, but also for huge sanctions for failure to comply with so-called reporting activities towards the authorities. This, moreover, brings an administrative burden. It should be noted that this law is not only about three large mobile operators, but it will also reach hundreds of medium-sized players who connect citizens in our cities and municipalities to the Internet in the regions. We want to talk about all this in the next reading and come up with proposals to change it. And please, in further readings, Minister, focus on the two points that I mentioned here at the beginning, because, of course, this is a complication for us to support the whole proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u11	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher is another member of the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u12	So good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'd say after a year, we're actually back here. A year ago, you will remember, or more than a year ago, the Electronic Communications Act, which changed the number portability practice here, accelerated the transfer, abolished the early termination fines if one did it more than three months later, as the contract lasted. At this point, we have a transposition of the Code in the field of electronic communications, which concerns, in particular, Internet access. In this case, we will look at it in a similar way to the transfer of numbers from mobile operators. The transposition concerns portability, information obligations - we will probably discuss this in the second, third reading - transparency and publication, the duration of the contract for a maximum duration of 24 months, even when it will happen again and so on. That means I think it's okay. It's a good thing it gets shorter. First of all, from what my honored colleague Vojtěch Munzar said... I must say that we started the job... we took it before the start, so what he was protesting here is almost unnecessary, because it is ready - or it will be tabled - an amendment that will remove the matter that goes beyond. And if I recall correctly, there are signed Members across, coalitions - opposition. I'm looking at Robert Králíček here, who's also doing it, and he's also signed there. That means this will work out. So I think we're really just going to do the transposition, and I wish all of us and our customers to do it as quickly as possible, even though we live here at the time of the covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u14	Thank you. I mentioned it here on purpose, and my colleague Patrik Nacher, through Mr President. It is good that we agree on this and prepare the amendment together, but I have spoken about it here on purpose, because it really should not be so that the government uncritically accepts the demands of individual authorities to increase their competences and sends them here only as a carrier, as a postman of these proposals. The government should really be the first one to say, "Enough, this is too much, this is too much for citizens' privacy, and it shouldn't even be here. That's why I've been talking about it here, and I really don't think it's useless. I hope that the joint amendment will fall on fertile ground here, too, that we are going to declare it this way. But I certainly do not consider it pointless to mention this here and to make the government feel that it has not done so at the level of the government when discussing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-004-040.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? He does not have a Deputy Prime Minister or a rapporteur. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. As a guarantee committee, the Organisational Committee shall be proposed by the Economic Committee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? He's not suggesting. We will therefore vote on the commandment of the motion to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 186, registered 88 Members, for 81, against no one. We have therefore approved the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee to address this proposal. Is there a suggestion? There's no such thing as a suggestion. So we will still be voting on the proposal that was made in the general debate. It's a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 187, 90 Members signed in for 70, against no one. We've cut short the deadline. Thank you to the Vice Prime Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done discussing this point. We're gonna go with point 41, it's about
