ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u1	477. Financial liabilities of the State contained in the concession contract for Design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of the D4 motorway in the section Háje - Mirotice and operation and maintenance of existing adjacent sections Skalka - Háje and Mirotice - Krašovice, PPP project /house print 1123/ This material will be mentioned by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček - but with priority right, I have Mr Kubíček reporting here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. According to the information I received, the rapporteur for the Honza Bauer Committee has covid and is not involved, so I propose a change to the rapporteur and it would be me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u3	Yes, we're not voting on that because it's a report. I will ask the Minister to take the floor and ask for peace in the Chamber. If you'd like to discuss any matter, please in the foyer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, PPP - after many years we have a chance to move forward in a project that involves cooperation between the private sector and the state sector. We therefore chose the section of the D4 motorway from Prague, the direction of České Budějovice, the so-called Strakonická, 32 kilometers. And I must say that my colleagues' honest work at the Ministry of Transport has really been achieved that we have implemented and eventually the government has approved the concession contract, namely 4. 1st of this year. What's important was the competition. The competition was fair, it was more interested, or consortium, and thanks to this we managed to compete from our point of view with a very reasonable price, which is more advantageous at the moment than if we were building in a classic way. Let me imagine the numbers. If we were to invest this segment at this point, the net price through the current system would be 11.3 billion, newly 10.8 billion. The operating costs related to this, which are linked to its own operation and subsequently to the renewal during life, would be in the order of CZK 5.5 billion, at this time we are at CZK 3.5 billion. On the other hand, we must pay the financial costs, that is true, which are at the level of CZK 2 billion. When we add it up and underline it, the price in the standard way is 16.9 billion, the price in the new 16,5 billion. We say "new" through this instrument. Let's keep going. In any case, if we were to take the standard route, we would have to count on the risk factor, which is logically being passed on to the concessionaires at the moment. The risk factor is evaluated by the amount of 4 billion and last but not least we have to count on the income tax paid, which will be paid by this new vehicle, the so-called HPV. Bottom line, all of the above, the limit price for us was 23.6 billion to make it worth our while, assuming that we discount the price of money to the present value, at this point we are at 16,5 billion, or from this point of view the project is advantageous. But it's not just the financial part that comes with the value of money, but it's also the qualitative part. We have in hand a tool through which we can - by gradually feeding resources and money that we will pay to the concessionaires - monitor quality effectively enough. At the same time, we are creating - and I do not mean it badly - some internal competition, which means we have the opportunity to compare how we will build this project, how other projects are being built. What is important is the consortium that is competing, is a consortium valid, there are really bonita multinationals and the entity that will implement its own construction is an entity that is already building motorways with us, even among the main teammates of our state, and it builds them well. None of the PPP-based projects that did this consortium in the past went bankrupt, did not go bankrupt, that is, even here is a sufficient degree of guarantee that we are working with a valid entity. In any case, it is also an instrument that we can relieve on an ongoing basis the state budget, even in times when we will not invest as much as we do today. I'm sure you know we're putting record resources into the transport infrastructure. While the 2020 budget was around 83 billion, the year ended at 120 billion, this year - I mean last year - we ended at 121 billion. This year we have a budget of 127.5 billion, but there may be worse times and in any case it will be good if we have an alternative to being able to do PPP. So this is also a model for us, an inspiration, and to a large extent it is very important that we succeed in building other sections of other motorways, or other transport structures, in this way. Essentially, after 25 years of operation, the concessionaire must return the motorway to the state, in very high quality, which is and has always been the key to evaluating the offers. In other words, the State will not be forced to spend other significant resources on further corrections after the concession period, since these are the very sources of recovery already included in the availability payments. The last thing I would mention about it is how we were actually - the key - getting to the price of CZK 16,5 billion, because logically, looking at our own investment and the instalments that they are, we're going to get a different price, and that's the price at the level of CZK 32 billion. This is, of course, due to the fact that this is a payment in the 25-year horizon, so we discount it, and the discount factor was taken as a factor at 4.04 %, so that's the discount rate. Why 4.04 percent? This is due to the product of inflation, which we compared to 2%, while the average return on assets in the European Union - if we deposit money today, we get 2.94 percent, but on the other hand we deduct the real return on government bonds from the last years, which is minus 0.9. Bottom line, it's 2 percent. So if we add to inflation, we're at 4 percent, which is why we're multiplying it. So it's a safe calculation that works in our opinion with numbers that are good or if not well, so solidly predictable and that are based on the real values of the price of money. I am very pleased with the way the discussion has been going so far. Both on the Committee on Budgets and on the Committee on Economic Affairs, this proposal was adopted and, at the same time, I am glad that we had the opportunity to meet all those interested in it at a special workshop where I explained and answered a number of questions with my colleagues. Thank you very much for the discussion that has taken place so far, and I will be very happy if you support this proposal to a large extent of the pilot project, which can really be very important for the future of our transport infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u5	Thank you, Minister. I would ask for more peace in the Chamber after all. There's not enough of us here to face such a high level of noise. This House press has been directed to the Economic and Budget Committee. The Committees' resolution was delivered as House prints 1123/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Roman Kubíček, take the floor. Mr Munzar is voting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u6	I'm sorry, I checked in before the minister came forward. On the last vote on the programme, vote number 299: I voted against, I have a pro on the high. I do not question the vote, however, for the Steno Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u7	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and make a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee addressed this issue at its 52nd meeting. There were also questions about how the transport service from Písek to České Budějovice will be carried out - despite all the information you received from the Minister, so the information we received: from Písek to České Budějovice will be a three-way road, a express road that will follow right on the completion of this section from D4, including the bypass of the affected municipalities such as Češnovice and Dáš. [[15.50 hours]] And now for the resolution of the 52nd Economic Committee of 3 February 2021 on the financial obligations of the State contained in the concession contract for Design, Construction, Financing, Operation and Maintenance of the D 4 motorway in the section Haje-Mirotice and the operation and maintenance of existing adjacent sections of Skalka-Háje and Mirotice-Krašovice, PPP project, House printing 1123. "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, a report by Roman Kubíček, on behalf of the apologized Member of Jan Bauer, agrees with the financial obligations of the state contained in the concession contract for Design, Construction, Financing, Operation and Maintenance of the D4 motorway in the section Haje-Mirotice and the operation and maintenance of existing adjacent sections Skalka-Háje and Mirotice-Krašovice, PPP project, nominally 18 761 377 912 CZK and 446 191 297 euros, paid under the draft concession contract." That is all from the resolution of the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u9	Thank you, too. I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Iva Kalátová, to take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At its 50th meeting on 3 February 2021, the Committee on Budgets adopted this resolution to the Parliamentary Press 1123. Following the opening words of the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, the report by Mrs Kalátová and the debate by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the financial obligations of the State contained in the draft concession contract for Designing, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of the D4 motorway in the section Háje-Mirotice and the operation and maintenance of existing adjacent sections Skalka-Háje and Mirotice-Krašovice, PPP project, nominal amount 18 761 377 912 Czech and 446 191 297 euros, paid according to the draft concession contract.'; II. empowers the rapporteur to familiarise the House of Deputies with this resolution - which I have just fulfilled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u11	I also thank you and I am opening a general debate in which I have five Members electronically signed up at the moment. I will ask Mr Jan Jakob to take the floor. A Member of the Kolovratník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. There's a spell like that - the PPP project. But it's not exactly accurate. I think what's being proposed to us here, the concession contract, is more of a supply loan with maintenance outsourcing over the period of repayment of this loan. At the same time, it is difficult to quantify the costs it will bear at the moment, because it will be affected by inflation and also by exchange rate risks. However, I believe that these risks from today's point of view are not such that this is essential for not accepting this proposal. I will personally support the proposal for two reasons: because this section of the motorway is really needed - it is clearly the quickest way to make it built and, secondly, to try this way for the future, when we will definitely have to evaluate it. I hope and believe that the project will be successful. And if it succeeds, I would even be in favour of extending the form of concession to genuine PPP projects in the sense that the investor would then have a share in the profit from the use of the product. I would even extend it to the discussion of land-planning documents and documentation itself. Thank you, I will support this proposal, and I am curious to see how it will turn out after years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u13	Thank you, too. At this moment, Mr Martin Kolovratník will perform. Member Matušovská will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u14	Good afternoon. I want to thank Mr Jakoba very much for his kind words. We were a little anxious or waiting to see what the opposition's position on this project would be on this proposal. Now, at least in the first case, I've heard helpful words. I do not want to anticipate what the next debate will look like, but thank you very much for the fact that the Member, as Středočech, has faced this and trusts the project. I want to speak briefly here, colleagues and colleagues, in fact, a little in the free role of the rapporteur - the chair of the Transport Sub-Committee, where this matter has also been discussed several times and a longer time back. Colleagues from the Ministry of Transport brought us the first introductory information two years ago, in 2019. Then, last year, we returned to the Sub-Committee on Transport several times, let's say in such preparatory negotiations, presentations. So everything came to an end, as the rapporteur Roman Kubíček said in the procedure, on the Economic Committee. My point is that the project by the Ministry of Transport was not prepared in a hurry, in a quap, or without exchange of information precisely in terms of the relationship between the Ministry of Transport and us, the Chamber of Deputies. The openness was really maximum, big. I can therefore thank the Minister for the professional preparation that all our Members' questions, and it does not matter if they have been answered by coalition or opposition. Even the materials we received were refined, explained to the last crown. So much for the presentation process, the presentation of information, what we're about to do in a little while, and why we're going to decide that commitment from the state. And now I will say for myself - if one of you is not convinced or hesitated, perhaps I will be able to move your position towards supporting the project: what benefits we perceive, what we think is very good and beneficial about the project. Try the rental, the payment for availability, in quotation marks rental, as a sort of leasing. It's really a very loose analogy, but the difference is that the property, the highway, the 32 kilometers, is going to be owned by the state. It will be in our property all the time, and the state will be able to decide, change, correct its decisions in case of any changes, dissatisfaction. But who cares who's gonna take care of everything here is gonna be the competing contractor, the one who's gonna set up the freeway and keep it up. Maintenance is a very important word, it also needs to be explained. Underneath the fact that the contractor will take care of the highway completely with everything. That means, imagine under how to maintain investment, operational, that means technical state of communication. We will not have to - or the ŘSD or the Ministry of Transport will not have to - discuss when surfaces change, how milling is done. In short, right in the contract is clear, exact, in what technical condition long term, nonstop, the road is supposed to look like. From this little, as I have seen - I am not an expert on technical standards, nor can I be - the requirements are quite strict, for example, until such detail as the equality of transverse inclinations of 1 millimeter to 1 meter, and so on and so forth. At a time when the availability for which we should pay for ourselves will not be respected, either due to technical, technical deficiencies or due to the need for a lane to be closed, the passability will be limited, so the payment will be reduced accordingly at that time. So even this is in the relationship of the supplier and state set, described, very clearly and it is mutually very fair. [[16.00 hours]] And so is winter maintenance hidden in those payments. This means what is sometimes the subject of media firefights, or of us, political: once again on this section, the supplier will have full competence and responsibility to ensure full transit in terms of year-round, especially winter maintenance and road care. I informed myself and asked colleagues from the Ministry of Transport how they actually imagined control. Try to imagine that the supplier here will be in some sort of - now I don't want to say competitive but similar - relation to the state, to the Ministry of Transport, such as ŘSD. This means it will be another entity that will take care of those 32 kilometers, and we assume employees either the Ministry of Transport or the SFDI on a relatively small team will be on the ground today and daily, they will have their own vehicle and technology, they will be able to watch, ride, personally check whether the guaranteed status is really respected. [[That's]] And about the last two arguments for that. The first one is cash flow. If the House decides to support this project today, we should start building in the spring. But the payments, the costs to be borne by the state, will be postponed until 2024, when the first payments are made for availability. This is certainly very interesting and tempting in terms of budgeting the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. By the way, this is not even largely reflected in the state debt balance. The second advantage, even for which I would like to talk about your support, is that if this project succeeds as a pilot, the Czech Republic will gain some credit for large international companies, whether transport, construction, construction, or financial, insurance. We'll be a serious partner in financial circles. The transport resort, whatever political, government composition in the future, will have an effective, interesting tool in hand for any possible - I repeat - other similar projects in the Czech Republic. At this point we may consider the D35 motorway in eastern Bohemia, the second link between Bohemia and Moravia. But we always underline - i.e. I underline - the word possible. I've already been asked if we're going to build everything. Well, definitely not, it should be a certain mix of state investment, and this would be good if we could even reach in here. So much for my support. Thank you for your attention. Minister, I'll keep my fingers crossed to be successful today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Zahradník is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the words of Mr Kolovratník, who spoke about the support given to this project by the opposition. Normally, a colleague Jan Bauer, who is the Chamber rapporteur for this material, would share the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party here. He's sick, so let me take this role. I have a bit of a right to do this, too, because I am like Jan Bauer Jihočech and for us the project is very important. I followed his preparation here in the House very closely, attended the meeting of the Transport Sub-Committee, where this project was discussed at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which expressed a positive opinion on the project. I have to say, the project is well-prepared. I think that only our decision is left to implement it. And I would like to express my position to the ODS Club. Our club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Matušovská will speak in the general debate and Mr Polanský will prepare himself. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the pilot project of the D4 motorway. First of all, I would like to remind you that our party has long resisted funding through PPP projects. I won't hold back by explaining why that is. Maybe you all have D47 in your memory, so now it's D1 and D3. But even thanks to the pandemic, we also think about the other side of the coin. And even though we have the most money in the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure budget this year, we understand the lack of money that may occur in the future. At the same time, we support the need to build good transport infrastructure, both by road and by rail. In the two years that the Ministry of Transport and the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure on the Sub-Committee on Transport and Economic Committee has been acquainting us with this project, we have raised a lot of questions, complaints, demands, information on the Reserve Fund, quality guarantees, what the charging of motorways will be and whether the integrity of road infrastructure will be disrupted. We also think that thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Transport to respond to everything and to hear our complaints, we can say that we have seen a certain shift in this project since previous years and from earlier projects and we see the possibility of speeding up the construction of motorway infrastructure. In this agreement, the Ministry of Transport tried to describe and cover perhaps all the risks that we can now remember. That is why, as a club of KSČM, we decided to support this pilot project. However, it is not automatic support for all PPP projects. We would like to evaluate all the consequences, problems, and whether everything was done the way it was supposed to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Polanský will speak in the debate and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, dear government. I'm here to introduce you to the Pirate Club's position on today's point. I'm not gonna beat around the bush, and I'm gonna tell the pirát that they're not gonna join us in agreeing to these financial commitments. It will not be connected because the D4 motorway project is not needed. From a transport point of view, this is a very important project, which should be seen as the priority of the Czech transport infrastructure. However, we cannot agree to financial commitments. That's what my colleague Ferjenčík will be talking about. I would just briefly summarize here why we think from the pirát that the PPP project should not have been used in the case of the D4 motorway. In general, PPP projects are used in two cases worldwide. First, where the State does not have the money to start or finance the project, it withdraws the instalment in that form. The second option, when states use PPP tools, is if it is a project on which the state does not normally work. This is an extraordinary project where all risks cannot be seen, whether it is the construction of an airport or some very complex technical infrastructure, such as the Elizabethan Railway as part of the London Metro project. [[right Elizabeth's line]] Neither of these conditions was fulfilled in the case of the D4 motorway. The state is able to invest the project from its own resources, first of all. And secondly, this is not a project where there are excessive risks. Since the land is already purchased, the building permit is completed and the project is developed into a relatively large level of detail, it can be said that the risk on this project would consist only in competing suppliers. Finally, I would like to welcome the Ministry of Transport for communication in this matter. It's been coming from my previous speakers. In the case of PPP projects, the Ministry was really communicative, answered all the questions that were needed, and for this I thank him. Thank you for your attention, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u21	I thank you, too, and in the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík, the last one entered into the debate so far, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will supplement my colleague Polanský with the main reservation of the Pirates Club on this project. We are primarily concerned with the method of financing. For us, it is not entirely understandable why we want private investors to finance the project at private REITs at the rates that private investors receive when the state borrows much cheaper. [[16.10 hours]] We're just borrowing for 30 years for some part of the project, even 4 percent of what the minister said, while if the state used long-term bonds, it would take 1.8 percent if it used shorter bonds, even less. We're borrowing for zero today, or maybe 1 per cent. So here we see the main problem. It is quite consensual that because of this method of financing we pay some CZK 4 to 5 billion extra, and we as Pirates do not want to sign under these 5 billion additionally. The Ministry argues that this is the price for minimizing our risks. I understand that, but from our point of view, the price is too high, because the risks are not so high, given that the construction does not lead to such a challenging terrain compared to other constructions that have been carried out at a lower cost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u23	Thank you, too. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Leo Luzar. The electronic application takes precedence, so please prepare Mr. Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, building the D4 motorway was a long-term task of the Ministry of Transport. Although I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region and our highway works, at least for now - and around Ostrava it has its problems - I still perceive the South Bohemia's path over the ongoing and long-term construction of this highway. If there are problems in the construction, especially property, let's say; he was not a problem of money, but was a problem of property and purchase. [[are:]] This is what we have tried, within the Economic Committee, by an initiative across all parties in this House, to resolve the so-called Amendment of the Fourteenth, and I firmly believe that we will succeed and the Road and Motorway Directorate will move forward faster in this stage in the framework of building preparation. But we are now facing a model that the Ministry of Transport wants to try. As a KSČM we approached this matter very, very carefully. We are aware of certain risks, we are aware of certain parallels in Slovakia, for example, where they also implement this model. We perceive the problems surrounding possible construction, and I also hear the words of colleagues and colleagues as previous speakers who draw attention to certain risks. We have tried to quantify and precise all the risks, and within the teleconferences that we had on this subject, we have tried to resolve these problems with the experts of the Road and Motorway Directorate, the Ministry of Transport and the Minister. Not everything has succeeded - to dispel our concerns, yet we perceive that this is an attempt to put quantified numbers on the table. Meanwhile, we are talking in theories, financial theories, bank theories, construction theories, because of course everything depends on how the construction works will be realized, whether the deadlines will be met, times, if the work is to be given up in the quality it should be delivered. And all of this will play quite a significant role in this matter. We have come to our decision to support this project only with the concern that the numbers that will be on the table will serve for the Ministry of Transport, or the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, as an argument for whether or not the Czech Republic can continue to build line networks. Because we are aware that we have a high-speed railroad ahead of us in another financial period of the European Union, when the aid will already be significantly smaller, because the Czech Republic will slowly become a payer and not a beneficiary of subsidies, and we will have to be able to respond to this issue as well. And this may be a reaction to how to continue and involve capital so that these buildings, which are firmly connected with the country - cannot be taken away, will be operated here on the Czech territory and are part of the Czech country - will help us finance. So, to sum up, we will certainly support this project mostly, but with one condition, the Minister will surely know that and he will tell me that we are taking this as a pilot project to assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of this construction, and of course we would not be happy to see it work and design on another similar project, for example in the Pardubice Region, others and others, as soon as this project has been approved. No, Minister, we would like this project to start at first and to find its effectiveness, its effectiveness in practical implementation, and on the basis of this evaluation and from the figures we could proceed to whether this model of financing not only this short section of the motorway - I note that this is a really short section of the motorway - it is applicable and applicable also in other line constructions of the Czech Republic. We still have some concern, especially about the mandatory commitment of the state budget for 25 years, repayment, etc., but we still need those numbers - if we don't try those numbers, we'll never have final arguments and we won't be able to disprove your model because we won't have real numbers. So behind the KSČM club we say that we are looking at this and we will constantly monitor the course of this implementation, we will try to enter it in the spirit of control and monitoring, as it goes, if the parameters that we have been promised are respected, and I firmly believe that this will succeed. If not, we will continue to be very vigilant about the financing of infrastructure structures in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u25	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Pavel Juříček, I will ask you to keep your voice down in the Chamber. [[With waiting between the words:]] The noise level is unnecessary, we don't hear what they say to each other, and it would be nice for us to act in a dignified environment. [[He's waiting for the silence.]] It's like school. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't originally want to perform, but I've heard some misleading information here, so I'm just responding to them. First, time and money always decide how the project is prepared. We discussed this very closely on the Economic Committee, and I must say that I myself was surprised at the manner in which the Ministry of Transport and the Minister approached it. Notabene Martin Kolovratník, through the President, explained a number of contexts here. Please, it's completely nonsense to imagine that you get, like, bonds, even government bonds, for 25 years, so the discount rate of 2 percent is smiling in this direction. Next issue - inflation 2%, we have not pushed inflation below 2% over the last 10 years. And as for speed and cash flow, we have to realize that the first ever payments will not be valid until 2024, so both the rates and the cash flow - and it is necessary to realize that here is a commitment of a private company for 25 years in terms of maintenance and everything. Those are risks for the company or the coalition of those companies, not the state. And one more fact that has not been mentioned here is that the euro is expected to be around somewhere - easy, close - 29 CZK, and today we have a euro of 25.70 and it is likely that the koruna will fall towards the euro, so there is another potential, if our economy develops at least a little bit rationally, so surely the koruna against the euro will not be 29, there is another pillow of potential still 12 percent. So we should thank the Ministry of Transport and the Minister and say, "Let's let it go, because here we finally have competition with the Road and Motorway Directorate, and that is exactly what we have been waiting for here in the Czech Republic for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just really gonna respond to my colleague Juříček. If we take the last 10 years, that means from 2009 to 2019, where the figures are already up to date, inflation in seven of these 10 years was below 2%. So what you're saying here isn't exactly accurate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-001-477.u29	At this point, I do not have anyone enrolled in the debate, either electronically or locally, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? It is not, so we will proceed to a detailed debate. I am opening up a detailed debate in which I have no one registered, so I am ending the detailed debate. There's no interest in final words. I will ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee to vote on the motion for a resolution that the rapporteur has tabled. We will vote on two motions for resolutions. The first vote will be on the resolution of the Economic Committee and the second vote will be on the resolution of the Budget Committee. I'll check you all out, please log in with your I.D. cards. At this point, we will vote on the resolution of the Economic Committee, as presented by the rapporteur. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting order number 300 registered by 150 Members, for 130, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. The next vote will be on the budget committee resolution presented by the rapporteur. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the voting order number 301, 150 Members signed in, for 131, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. This concludes the discussion of this point. The next item is the item
