ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin this 119. a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you that the 120th meeting will be opened at 14 o'clock. And now I'm opening this meeting 119, welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I have checked you all out now, and I will ask you to sign up with your cards, or to tell me who votes with the replacement card. Mrs Kořanová votes with card number 11. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 67 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on September 29th. First I would proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting, then somehow we will deal with the priority rights that you have reported to me until now. I propose that we appoint a Member of Stanislav Berkovec and a Member of Petr Dolínek. At this point, however, I still do not see any member of the government present... I'll just read the apologies and see if anyone comes. Apologies to Members: Ivan Adamec - working reasons, Martin Baxa - working reasons, šindelář Bělobrádek - Robert Karla, Jiří Bláha up to 14 hours - working Stanjura, Zbyněk Bžoch - working Kozlová, Lenka Černý - health reasons, Oborná Červíčková - health Olga, Jaroslav Dvořák - health reasons, Jan Farský up to 11 hours - Patrik reasons, Pavla Golasowská up to 11.30 - working reasons, Josef Hájek - Ondřej Vyzula, Tomáš Hanzel up to 15 hours - Jaroslav Vymazal, Radek Holomčík - Helena Válková, Jan Chvojka - family reasons, Aleš Juchelka - working Šlechtová, Adam Kalous - working grounds, Vojtěch Munzar - Okleštěk grounds, Barbora Kořanová from 16 to 21 hours - Zuzana Ožanová, Ledek Facelová - Richterová Ladislav. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš within 14 hours - working reasons, Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jan Hamáček - working reasons, Jakub Kulhánek - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - working reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. Now, we have a government member present, so we can continue, and we have ended up proposing that we approve Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Petr Dolínek as verifier of this meeting. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for a verifier? [[Gong.]] In the meantime, I've summoned our colleagues from the lobby. I don't see any other suggestion. So I'm taking the vote. Who is for the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number one, we are 125, for 122, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 119th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Stanislav Gross and Mr Dolínek. [[correct Berkovce]] [[There are voices from the diaper because of a mispronounced last name.]] What did I say? Stanislav Berkovec and Petr Dolínek. I'm sorry. Yeah? Twice? Stanislav Berkovec and Petr Dolínek, I will not repeat it three times. So now we're going to proceed to the 119th meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Now, we need to get a little bit of an overview of the priority rights, because now the first ones to sign up for the program in writing must be. I have two applications that have been sent by e-mail in advance, President Pekarová and President Jurečka, but they were for debate. So now I have to prefer the written ones that were e-mailed in advance. And here's the oldest application from Vice-President Okamura, who signed up for 1. 10. [[Vice-President Okamura: I have Bečva there.]] We're in the middle of something... but it says "for the meeting" here. So you don't want to get out? [[Vice-President Okamura: I am not interested in speaking.]] The Vice-President changes his application, wants to speak in the debate, specifies it. He's Bečva now, Mr Vice-President. There's a meeting program, but you wrote to yourself... You want to get off first? [[Conjecture off the microphone.]] You have signed up for the program in writing, you have priority rights under Section 67, you can perform whatever you want. You don't want to speak until the debate? Okay, I'll take that under advisement. Yes, the Bečva point is already open... It's not, it's not, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, the Bečva program is not open, but we only have one point and the agenda cannot be changed. Okay, so this application doesn't apply. Then I have the priority right here, also from 1. 10th but later, President Bartoš. And he wrote here "to the Bečva negotiating point," so I also take that to the point. [[There are rumors from the benches.]] So one more time. It is very confusing for me to get off to Bečva under the Rules of Procedure. You proposed to speak on the agenda, Mr Vice-President, I respect that. Now you've changed that you don't want to speak until the debate. I respect that. The next application that came in is the President Bartoš, who wrote here "to the point of reference." So I suppose I just want to get this straight, so it's not a program either. In that case, now, today, President Pekarová has applied for my program, and then President Jurečka. Then, in order to set this straight, after the programme has been approved, the Minister of the Environment wishes to speak first before opening the point. [[10.10 hours]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have one of the last meetings of this House, and we are beginning with a pretty chaos. Let's hope we continue to be more clear. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] I would ask you to approve the item on today's agenda, which is the approval of the final inquiry report by the Commission, which was established by this House, which commissioned her to investigate the disaster on the Bečva River, and which she had reached during her very short period of time, to the clear conclusions that the House has made with the request that we as members of the Commission - I had the honour to be a member of this commission - to discuss it at the House plenary. And I also want to ask you to do this in a broader context, because I think this report is a clear accusation of how this state works, how it operates under the leadership of Andrej Babiš and his huge conflict of interest, which is also revealed in this case and which is intersecting with public interests. Bečva and the disaster that occurred there a year ago, and its examination, in particular the way in which the authorities of the State and the institutions have joined it, is a symbol. It is a symbol of how much it has grown into the public administration, into the public interest, the individual strength and interest of the ANO movement or Agrofert movement through Andrej Babiš. Now you're shaking your heads, and you're saying it has nothing to do, that you can agree in this direction today. But - and it's a shame that citizens can't see it - you just act like those who protect their leader. And I'm asking you, in this regard, at least in this particular matter, to put aside your party interest, your personal interest, and to look at it with genuinely unbiased, unbiased eyes, if that's even possible for you. Someday, maybe in a few years, you yourself will regret not having the courage to do so. Like many who soon appeared from the Communist Party, I am referring to the predecessor of the current Communist Party, the KSČ, suddenly throwing away their party cards and saying that they had nothing to do with it. Now, in this country, you can't often see for yourself what is the interest of the state, the public and what the interest of Agrofert is because sometimes it wipes off what is the state and what is Agrofert. And the ministers who are responsible, and here Minister Brabec, for the state to function impartially, cared for the interest of the people, so they completely failed at the full end. And I'm surprised he's still in that position. I'm only surprised at how common it would have been ten years ago, nine years ago, but when we're all watching the developments of recent years, we can't be surprised that there's no basic political culture anymore when there's serious errors to be held accountable. The responsibility in this case falls to Minister Brabec, because his body, which is subject to the Ministry of the Environment, and that is therefore the Czech Inspection, has clearly failed in this case. The conclusion of this commission reveals it and says it to the fullest. And whoever doesn't want to see it, it's the Ministry of the Environment, so there are those who protect their backgrounds to stay on those functions. But we can't think of anyone as normal, no one can think of it as normal that, in a disaster of this magnitude, there were no samples taken from specific estuaries, from which it should have been that in many cases it was late and some of the samples taken were discarded. This is the conclusion of the investigation, which you will also find in the investigation report. The report thus reveals in full nudity that in this case we can talk about slendrianism, incompetence, or even intent. And that's very important. If it were just a sklendrian and incompetence and the authorities that were to act quickly, they would not have acted quickly if they had underestimated their role, it would still be relatively good news for us in the marasm. It's better from the bad news, to be exact. But in this case, I'm afraid it's not a coincidence that we can't be lulled into this by the fact that only those people who were there first didn't do what they had, that, in some ways, the laws have been leaky, imperfect. There's just been a threat, a public threat to people's lives, no state of danger, no response to the individual authorities as they should, and it's basically made it harder to investigate a major disaster like this that's unprecedented in decades. And if there's ever another chance to say objectively on the basis of the evidence that caused the disaster, it won't be evidence straight anymore. That's what this is all about. Direct evidence is missing because it was not secured in time, many were not secured at all. You can twist your head all you want, gentlemen and ladies, you can call yourself and laugh all you want, but I think you'll recognize yourself in a few years that you've just blindly followed some of the interest you've had, and your own, but you've actually acted cowardly. [[The noise in the Chamber persists, as do dissenting remarks and mockery in the ANO benches.]] Because if this case fails to go to the end and solves, it will be the best one in quotation marks, and I mean it now ironically, the card of how one company's interest in the interests of this state has grown. We have a chance to change that, we have a chance to fix these things, and we have a chance to expose this stop sign. Of course, this is what voters can do most in elections, but we as Members have a duty to behave in interests that are all public, not just one, and the one who has a man here, as we see in the last few days, is already preparing his background to make sure that once this place is completely screwed with forgiveness, he can only laugh about it from the French Riviera. [[Laughs and screams in the hall.]] But all of us, all of us, will continue to live in this, the citizens will continue to live in it, and they will feel the hard consequences of this incompetent rule, this marasm that you are causing here, and they will feel it on their own. [[Unadvisable reactions remain in plenary.]] They'll have to live in it. They have a chance to change that, and I firmly believe that they will change that, too. And now we also have a chance to face up to the problems, and not to mock the work of the entire commission that worked here, and each of the political parties has been represented there, including those who are now shaking their heads massively, so it's collective work, it's a work across the political spectrum, and it's a job that brings you unflattering results, because you're obviously not satisfied with this, but a very important message and a signal for all the citizens of this country. So let us discuss this report together, and I firmly hope that you will have at least the courage to let the program pass, and not to wall it up at the first vote by not letting it pass. [[Inconvenient remarks from the benches of the ANO movement.]] Because that would just expose what you're really after most, what you're trying to do, so that there's no discussion about this, so that it's not transparent, so that citizens can see what you're really up to. [[The Member has turned to the President.]] I'm sorry that the Prime Minister isn't completely presiding anymore, because this is where it becomes such an arena... [[Dissenting reactions and screams from the diaper are escalating.]] ...and no one really respects the fact that someone's talking anymore. And others here can join the debate, you have that right too, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u3	I'm gonna ask you not to shout at each other, we're gonna leave it all to the speaker's counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u4	That's right. [[10.20 hours]] So thank you for your attention, thank you for your proof of what you're really after. This is how you express it yourself, and I think it creates a picture, particularly of you, honourable Members and members of the ANO movement. Thank you for your attention. Let's deal with this committee. It is a very, very important report not only about the poisoning of the Bečva river, but about the poisoning of the whole Czech Republic and public interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies quickly. Daniel Pawlas apologizes today from the 19th and 120th meetings for medical reasons. Mr Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes for today's medical hearing, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes for work reasons, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologizes today within 14 hours for work reasons. Mrs Jana Krutáková apologizes for both meetings today for working reasons, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologizes for today's entire day for working reasons and Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes today from 10.15 to 12 hours for working reasons. We still have not approached the approval of the programme, but after agreement and clarification of the individual priority rights, I will now ask President Jurečka, then Vice-President Okamura to let you know, then President Bartoš, Vice-President Blaha, who has priority rights from ODS, then President Rakušan, Vice-President Fiala. Then perhaps we will finally approve the programme and then the Minister of Environment Brabec is reported. After that, Mr Gazdík, who also has priority rights today as Vice-President. So, Mr. Chairman, please have the floor. With the replacement card number 23, Mr Kolovratník votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u6	Good morning, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. Allow me to say a few points and observations about this situation at this extraordinary meeting, too, before we approve the programme and embark on a general and detailed debate. On the one hand, I am glad that it has succeeded here in a record-breaking short time, that the Commission has done its utmost possible within about 2.5 months of the work it had to do, because I will remind you that, even if the Chamber of Deputies approved the formation of this commission on 11 April 2021, the Commission's work was not until 8 July when it was elected as chairman of this committee, my colleague Marie Pěnčíková. So we did not really start working until the turn of July and August, during the holidays. But I think that who has read from Members and Members and from among the public honestly the whole report of the committee of inquiry, which is not so long again - it is not hundreds of pages, it is dozens of pages, but above all, who has read it from page 11, so I think he can take a picture of the fact that there are committees of inquiry that make sense and prove in their conclusions that they will come to some specific findings and concrete recommendations, which is also an example of this committee of inquiry. I must say that I am very sorry when we were discussing this committee at the time when the committee was working, and especially at the time when this committee issued its final report, so we saw that, above all, Mr. Environment Minister Richard Brabec and his colleagues from the resort, especially the management of the Czech Environment Inspection, began to express themselves in the spirit: It is politicized, it is a team of amateurs and so on. We are here people of many different professions in this House and I do not think that the things that the House creates and puts on the legislative final process that we should always call amateur. Yes, there are things that may have gone wrong, that we don't have to argue about. But demoting fellow Members of the Chamber of Deputies who have been elected to this committee to a choir of amateurs seems to me really very cheap and pitifully prime-purpose and prime-planning. Because when you look at what the committee was working with, the committee was working on facts. The facts are there, there are clear references to individual entries, witness statements. That's what this committee is based on, which doesn't work with any assumptions. And when you read from page 14 the identified errors and shortcomings, they are, in turn, things that are very specific are constructive. The criticism does not only concern the workers of the Czech Environmental Inspection, but also concerns, for example, the steps taken by individual water authorities, the other components and their coordination, communication and cooperation. I think the problem is that when we look at the situation before the accident, when there has been a situation since 1990, when the legislation was being formed, but we have not heard fundamentally from the management of the Ministry - whether it was the predecessors of Mr Richard Brabec, or in the last eight years, when he is a minister - that there would be some urgent call for this: Let us change legislation in the field of water law, in the field of construction law, in the field of the Environmental Protection Act and so on. Until then, the system pretended that everything worked, that everything was flooded with the sun, and also the checks that came to different industrial areas in at least the previous two years before the accident, did not actually detect any serious errors, and the conclusions of the controls did not provide any significant recommendations for us to change our competencies, that we should change our responsibilities, make interventions in legislation, or that the Ministry, in cooperation with other departments, should make some adjustments to the methodological guidelines. Nothing like that, no sign of it. The moment the accident happened, the person who started to go through it and read the report will not understand why, for example, the communication of, for example, the staff from the PHIP, the colleague from Brno, was so complicated, reluctant, why his supervisor and another series of other things were not informed. And it's not that we want to criticize someone here first and foremost, but it's about describing the state of things and saying, this is a serious problem and now let's say how we can solve it. And that's just what I miss in the communication, because the response in the last week's reactions from the leaders of the Czech Environmental Inspection to why samples were not taken from those results on that Sunday or why on Monday's inspection, which took place on the premises of several industrial companies, including DEZA, were not taken samples that could clearly say on the basis of evidence: We confirm or disprove, so why it took place only in the plane of sensory evaluation. It simply does not take a person's head, especially a person who knows the procedure of the Czech environmental inspection in many other situations, in many other operators, in other types of business, even in agriculture, where the controls are sometimes very uncompromising, very hard. All it takes is a little leak, like from a silage bag or something. So these are the moments when you're just wondering why it happened. And it is necessary to say who is responsible for the decision, who has decided that the samples will not be taken, who said: We only need to do a sensory evaluation in such a situation. Then, almost two months later, it's catching up with investigators to have some facts, by entering and carrying out an expert opinion that actually only works with a hypothesis, but it can't have direct evidence to disprove or confirm. So I would very much like to have a debate that will follow in the general debate, so that it is not led by the fact that we have to remove it from the table at all costs from one side or the other, but, for example - and I did not notice - that perhaps the Director General of the Czech Environmental Inspection said: Yes, we have also become a failure. He's been acting out that there was no error. This was surprising for me personally, because for other colleagues who were invited to the committee of inquiry, they said to you: Yes, in some situations we could have done these things differently, we could have done them even better, otherwise communicate. But here, it felt like something on the edge, let's say, of an arrogant attitude of behavior and behavior. So I would like us today to adopt the proposed conclusions of the commission of inquiry, which has embodied in the resolution that we recommend to the Chamber of Deputies for adoption, because the resolution sends a clear signal to the Government and the Resorts, so that the comments which the committee of inquiry has reached to be dealt with, in order to adjust the methodological procedures, to adjust the things that mean, for example, the training of these situations, and to simply reflect these things into legislation. And this is not just a question of the proposed amendment to the Water Act, it is a question of more legislative changes that need to be made. [[10.30 hours]] I tried to give it a rational level in my speech, even though we are three or four days before the election, because of course the subject is also a matter of emotions for me. I am a man who lives immediately in the cadastral territory of the village, when Bečva flows through our house, we go swimming there, we don't care what quality ecosystem there is. But I am now also trying to bring a rational, constructive spirit into this debate, because at this point, we are primarily concerned that we never do it again, never to the extent that we can say after today or perhaps next year's next term: we have done everything we can to eliminate the risks of such accidents. Which, in the last year, we cannot say that this government would do that it would come up with constructive changes in those more laws where these changes need to be made in order to say: We really have done the maximum possible in human hands, in the power of the legislators. Thank you for your attention and thank you for, as far as possible, a positive and constructive approach to the negotiations in this extraordinary situation at this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura. Favorite law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement is concerned about the length and conclusions of the investigation into the environmental accident on the Bečva River, which took place last September. In this environmental disaster, a large number of unknown substances, probably cyanides, were leaked into the Bečva River and the subsequent poisoning and death of all living organisms on 40 kilometers of the river. However, the investigation of the causes still raises a lot of questions. It is a systemic failure, which may occur even in future accidents, and we mainly want to know how the Minister of the Environment and the Chief of the Environmental Inspection wants to deal with it. I hope it's a system solution and that the environmental minister Richard Brabec here will tell us today. Someone should also draw personal responsibility for the failure of sampling and delays, and we would also like to know from the Minister who it should be. The police responsible for investigating the case finally accused one company and one natural person, which is why we supported the formation of the Chamber of Investigation Commission to get acquainted with the investigation materials and assess whether there were errors during the investigation. It is essential for the SPD not to repeat such accidents in the future and to punish the guilty. It is unacceptable for us to act as if we were in an accident on the Bečva River, where we have been waiting for the result for a very long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Tomáš Vymazal apologizes today for the whole day for working reasons. Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes today from 13:00 to 17:00 for work reasons. Mr Jan Birke apologizes today from 10 to 14 o'clock for health reasons. Mr Bartoš, with priority rights, will be prepared by Vice-President Blaha. Still priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Government, that is to say, Minister. The crash in Bečva is the Czech ecological accident biggest in the last 30 years and we are here, and it is more than one year when we still do not know the culprit. The investigation committee talks about shortcomings and serious errors in the work of the Environmental Inspection and other institutions, but the real responsibility lies with Andrej Babiš and his people who are in charge of this in the resorts. The environmental inspection was one of the first bodies that Andrej Babiš began gradually subjugating after his accession to the government in 2014. It was at a time when he was the dominant player in the chemical industry and the largest fertilizer producer in the Czech Republic. So, first, there was a change in the position of Director of the Inspection and then large-scale purges in the district inspectorates. The šlendrián in the investigation of the Bečva crash is a direct result of the growth of the corruption tapeworm through all the authorities of this state. I could give you a lot of examples. Randomly: Let's remember the well-known case of Precheza from Agrofert holding, which was fined at an acceptable level for leaking substance into the air, I think it was CZK 7 million at the time. After the intervention of the Ministry of Environment, this fine was reduced 14 times, so instead of 7 million, it paid half a million. And I could go on like this. I have to promise that if we're in the government, it'll be one of the first institutions to really drive out all the people that Andrej Babiš has installed there, people who are connected to the Oligarch business. However, environmental inspection is not the only institution that fails and protects more business interests than people's interests. From the Ministry of Health, we have witnessed here, as it forces insurance companies to send out pre-election propaganda YES, to the financial administration that curses the Prime Minister's competition. Just these scams, lying became the norm under the leadership of YES in the Czech Republic, and that must change. I was remembering yesterday or the day before yesterday when the former Prime Minister, Mr Gross, resigned after he came to a suspicious purchase of a $4 million apartment. We're dealing with some Prime Minister's case or his people here every month, and nothing's going on. The last case, Pandora Papers, when the Prime Minister washed or somehow carried out CZK 400 million through the scheme, bought property for them on the Riviera, and laughs at us in the face, used companies in tax havens for the transaction, and then told us that he would fight against such practices until the body was torn apart. As a cherry on a cake, and it is rather sad than comic, he adds that this method of purchase recommended him by the real estate agency and that he does not own any real estate. Sure, Prime Minister, and that amount doesn't actually agree either. I firmly believe that the Czech Republic is not yet completely paralyzed, that independent police and justice will be able to solve all the prime minister's machinations from the Capi nest to all the "small" and "big" Agrofert. And the accident in Bečva, which the state institutions and the Prime Minister may have struggled to defend, too, the Minister of the Environment. The only thing I can promise for our coalition is we won't lie, we won't steal, we won't cheat. I think that's the basis for what this country deserves, and that future for the citizens they can look forward to, which they don't have to worry about, they're gonna bring in the elections in a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u11	Another priority right - Vice-President Blaha, then President Rakušan, then Vice-President Fiala, and then we are expected to get to the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u12	Mr President, one member of the government, Minister of the Environment, colleagues, because there is a concern that this extraordinary meeting will not be approved, I am taking advantage of the right to call on you not to do so, to approve the programme and to have the report of the Bečva inquiry committee discussed, because it is not just Bečva. What happened on the Bečva River more than a year ago can happen anywhere else within the Czech Republic and the commission of inquiry makes a number of proposals on how to prevent or at least prevent such matters. The House Committee of Investigation has done some good work, a job that I am really proud of, no matter how many doubts have been raised since then in the media space and, of course, will sound 100 percent today at the House plenary. The 29 pages of the text were taken over by a number of media, quoted by journalists, read by people, and they are far from just people who live on the banks of the Bečva River, but they are people from all over the Czech Republic. After the silence and fog of the government, we did what was called for all year long, what people, media and fishermen wanted to know, who were dragging 40 tons of dead fish out of the water that day. We described what actually happened at Bečva on September 20th, step by step. We weren't looking for a culprit, and we certainly didn't want to, and we didn't subpoena the police's work. We have pointed out a number of errors that - and I am convinced of this - have been tried to conceal and downplay. [[10.40 hours]] Or even worse, it wasn't a coincidence, it wasn't a mistake, it was a deliberate attempt to destroy the evidence. Why do I think that? I quote from page 19 of the key passages of the report: "The information found shows that on the day of the accident, i.e. 20. 9. last year, only one sample was taken in the area above the point of observation of the first symptoms of fish poisoning, i.e. upstream of the river. It was a sample from the firefighters that was taken at 17.20. Four samples were taken the following day, no samples the next day." On the day of the accident, not one sample was taken from the results leading to Bečva. Neither. It wasn't until the next day that someone thought of taking samples, so they took one single one. You're guessing right, it was just a sample from Energoaqua, that was the exit of the channel from Rožnov, and the company was subsequently accused by the police after a few months. And of course there are more such coincidences. At random, page 5, where we say that Deza was just on the phone on the day of the crash, if all O O.K. was there, K one went to take samples. On page 23, where we describe that fishermen reported a significantly later time of arrival of people from the Czech environmental inspection than the inspection itself states. Page 10, which confirms that there was no map leading to Bečva on the day of the crash. Page 6 - Deza eventually went, but only for the ocometric check of lagoons, samples as if someone had forbidden to take there. Strange, isn't it? And what doesn't our report say? For example, a Bečva investigator who comments on social media and emotionally denies everyone who has a different opinion than he does. We are talking about Mr. Hovorka, who, by the way, tried to appeal himself last month. Or the famous sentence of Minister Brabec that finding the origin of the poisoning is a matter of hours. Or even more famous exclamation: it wasn't DEZA! Now we know that this sentence had no real basis - no samples, no data, just nothing, but it wasn't DEZA. A week ago, I received information about hundreds of dead fish on Chrudimka and the strange silence associated with the case. Not a month after the crash, it's not clear what happened. Does that remind you of anything? I am personally touched by Bečva, not just because I live in the Zlín Region. I'm also a fisherman, and I've spoken to Stanisla Pernický, a fisherman this year, who was among those who dragged dead fish out of Bečva. He's been fighting all year for Bečva to investigate, and I appreciate his efforts, because he's one of the ones that Bečva didn't really fit in. I spoke to the locals who live around the river and are disgusted with the tyjudar and the mist of the civil servants. I've spoken to journalists who don't come out of wondering what's going on in this case and hide it. For me, it's a mistake that can't be forgiven or overlooked. How did Andrej Babiš react to the report of the commission of inquiry? Well, he called us a folk tribunal. How did the Environment Minister Brabec react? He said that despite the fact that the Commission's meetings were private and secret, his ANO colleagues reported to him what was happening on him and consulted their actions. I would expect a different reaction - an explanation of why some of the samples didn't come from the results, the immediate publication or drawing up their map, the location of water monitoring in the river, the explanation of why Deza was just on the phone, how it was possible that some of the samples spilled into someone's car, a transparent and understandable explanation of why Energoaqua was charged. What do we have instead? All those who are interested in the case and draw attention to irregularities are blamed and punished. It's one thing to me all the time so that the disaster in Bečva is investigated and everything is done to ensure that nothing like this ever happens again. I don't think there's any movement in a year, and that's something that people should know and that we should repeat and realize mostly us here in the House. This government, this government, the government of silence, lies, and mischief, is responsible for this. Bečva won't go away, but thanks to ordinary people, not thanks to Babišův's government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u13	As the next President of Rakušan, then Vice-President Fiala, who I hope will arrive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have experienced a reaction here in the speech of my predecessors - inattentiveness, head twisting. I understand that certain parts of this House do not like it, and I understand that one simple argument will be used here - elections are coming up, a simple election theme has been drawn. And I'd like to turn it around. It is precisely that elections should not be decisive at all. This case, the Bečva case, should definitely not end with the election. On the contrary, I hope that after the elections here in the Chamber of Deputies, there will be such an atmosphere that throughout our society there will be such an atmosphere that cases similar to those that may be discussed today, if you raise your hand to discuss the programme, they will simply be resolved and dealt with objectively, so that we can get to the substance of the problem in order to get to the truth, and they will not be dealt with in the name of one holding, one entrepreneur who happens to be Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Bečva is a typical example of the fact that agrofertization of our society is not an empty concept. It's a system problem for our company, not one single problem that we're dealing with here. The way the Czech environmental inspection was progressing, but probably also the police, is absolutely scandalous. How come we don't have one single sample taken directly under Deza? How is it possible that the police are going to enter a highly sophisticated opinion on the fifth day? What was he supposed to show? That Energoaqua is guilty? And in the other factory, at factory B, did it be satisfied that there were no operational events? With a simple statement? So that a few days or months later it turns out that it was simply a lie and the problem in Deza was, in any case? Can we at this point believe that the Czech environmental inspection, the law enforcement authorities, really want to lead this case to a conclusion that corresponds to reality, or is there an order that has already grown through the entire system - and the order is to avert suspicion from one of the companies that is part of the holding? But this, my friends, is not just a problem with Bečva. This is stealing public space. This is stealing a perspective and a future for people who want to live freely in this state. This is exactly the moment when it turns out that justice can no longer be reached in this state if we are opposed to the gearing that is represented by one oligarch and his company. The current representation is perceived by the state as just a mass, a mass of people we give a gift, mostly a election, and we need them to hold a percentage for the election, for the election. That's what's going on here. But the interest of an individual, the interests of people who like nature, who care about their own surroundings and who are also interested in elementary justice in this society, is no longer of interest to anyone. A free-minded man in this country lost any perspective and hope of living in this society after the government of the ANO movement. We have lost confidence in the system and our institutions. And the moment we lose confidence in the system and in our institutions, it is precisely to see those institutions begin to listen, cease to function, and leave us the most fundamental of what is here - freedom, democracy and the rule of law. Bečva simply shows why Andrej Babiš should not be in politics. He himself said that if he didn't rule, he would leave politics. Is that an offer of service to citizens? I'm running for election and I say - if I don't rule and sit in a boring opposition, isn't that a job that I enjoy? My only motivation is to have the power and the power to use it the way it did in the Bečva River case? We don't want this. We have to change this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Fiala and I have explained this. He didn't sign up for the debate, he was just making sure who was still logged in. So in that case, we're getting to approve the program, folks. [[Gong.]] I'm gonna call my co-workers from the lobby, and I think it's time you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. With priority rights, Madam Vice-President Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask for a 10-minute break so that all colleagues who are in the Ambits of the Chamber of Deputies can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u17	All I have to do is comply, maybe five would do it. They're all walking. [[Several Members enter the hall. Mrs Cernochová insists on 10 minutes.]] All right. I'll meet you at 11:00. There's nothing we can do. ODS Club break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has already announced, we will proceed to the establishment of the 119th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would like to remind you once again that pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change can be proposed. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 119th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. We are ready for the vote. [[Noise in the hall. Bad hearing.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 140 Members registered, for 137, against no one. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And before we proceed to the one point of the show that is
