ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 3rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first check you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 24, the Member and Minister Metnar will vote. I beg you to settle down and settle down in the Chamber so that we can begin. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a third meeting on Thursday, 25 November this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. Members apologized for today's meeting: Bačíková Jana for health reasons, Baxa Martin from 5:30 p.m. without giving reason, Blažek Pavel - working reasons... Mr Blažek withdraws his apology, Mrs Jana Černochová for work reasons, Mr Radim Fiala for health reasons, Mr Petr Fifka also for health reasons, as well as Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, Mr Jáč Ivan - working reasons, Mr David Kasal - health reasons, Mr Michael Kohajda from 16 to 17.45 hours for work reasons, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek - family reasons, Mr Martin Kolovratník - working reasons, Mr Štolpa David for family reasons, Mr Karel Tureček - health reasons, Mrs Milada Voborská for health reasons, with the same reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl. They apologized from the members of the government: Minister Marie Benešová for work reasons, Minister Jan Hamáček for work reasons, Minister Jakub Kulhánek for foreign travel reasons, Minister Robert Plaga for work reasons, Minister Miroslav Toman for work reasons, Minister Adam Vojtěch for health reasons, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for work reasons. I'm asking you once again to calm down so that we can proceed to the next points. We shall proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Ondřej kolář and Mr Petr Vrána as the verifier of today's meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see any counterproposals. Initiating vote on the designation of verifiers. Those in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 1, 174 Members present, 166, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 3rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of Ondřej kolář and Petr Vrána. I would like to ask you once again for peace. You may want me to premiere here using the bell, but I'll try to use my voice settings again to move your conversations to the foyer. Members of Parliament, on 25 November this year, by decision number 4, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, I declared a legislative emergency for the period from 25 November 2021 to 7 January 2022. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is the Government Bill on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the covid-19 epidemic, House press 49 - shortened negotiations; Government Bill on the Emergency Contribution of Employees in the Quarantine Order, House Press 50 - shortened negotiations; Government bill on compensation bonus for 2022, House press 51 - shortened negotiations. By decision number 5, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short hearing, and I ordered the House press 49 and 50 to the Social Policy Committee and the House press 51 to the Committee on Budgets. I have set the committees an unstoppable deadline for submitting a resolution today by 12.00. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I therefore open a debate on a legislative emergency. I don't see any logged in to the debate. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Once again, I'm asking you to calm down and move your conversations into the lobby, or I'm gonna start specifically naming who I'm asking for peace. Let me remind you once again that there is an open debate, but I do not see one registered, and that is why, if no one signs up for the debate, I will end it and we will proceed directly to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 2, 180 Members and Members were registered, for 179, against none. The proposal has been approved, the legislative emergency is ongoing. We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the 3rd meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. There have been no proposals for a vote from the grémia meeting today, which is why you, Members of Parliament, can now comment on the proposal for a programme. The Member, President Tomio Okamura, who can make his proposal, has already applied for the floor in writing. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Health in Demission of Adam Vojtěch for the ANO movement suggests that selected population groups must be vaccinated against coronavirus from 1 March 2022. Therefore, on behalf of the SPD MEP, I propose an extraordinary point on the agenda of today's House meeting entitled The Discussion on the proposal of the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for compulsory vaccination, as I believe that a large part of the citizens reject this step, and we in the SPD also disagree. [[14.10 hours]] I therefore ask you, fellow Members, to discuss the proposal of Minister Vojtěch for compulsory vaccination first here in the House, because it is evident from public space that a large part of the electorate, yours and ours, I presume, is refusing this drastic intervention in their freedom to decide. And not because there are some fanatical anti-vaxers, but it's complete nonsense to force healthy, resilient people to be free to decide whether to inoculate or fight the virus and gain natural immunity, with millions of them already met the virus and having the immunity. Statistics clearly show that these people do not burden hospitals. Of course, it is also necessary to take a clear stand on the issue raised by the police President - and we are on the side of police officers, firemen and other relevant elements for the functioning of the state - because the police President said that, in the case of mandatory vaccination, up to a quarter of police officers are considering leaving. That means 10,000 police officers. There may be a similar situation with firefighters, soldiers, and other files. So, of course, this is also a problem, and we need to discuss this serious situation here, because it is a fact that even though the government is in demise - and the ANO movement does not have majority support in society, it follows from the elections, and ČSSD does not, which is still such a remnant here in the government, it has fallen into the elections, so I am not even talking about them anymore - it is simply not possible that, under the decree - and it is possible, legally, that it is possible - the Minister in remission imposed the obligation of vaccination to all citizens or selected parts of citizens. This is legally possible, but it is completely unacceptable from any other reasonable point of view. That is why I would - and we in the SPD want - to discuss this point here, if, of course, you would help us include it, because there are only twenty members of the SPD, the House has 200 Members, so we need at least 81 Members from other political parties to put this item on the agenda. In such a case, if we were to include him thanks to your votes, I propose to vote on this resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is ordering the Government not to introduce compulsory vaccination against SARS-CoV-19." [[Correct SARS-CoV-2.]] Now, about the reason. As I was saying, the proposal for compulsory vaccination is simply nonsense, because forcing healthy, resistant people to vaccination is of course not logical. Even the government, we also know that this is not, of course, a medical effect. In practice, the introduction of compulsory vaccination will, on the contrary, help the opponents to refuse vaccination. Compulsory vaccination is regulated by the Public Health Act, and it clearly states that the person who has immunity against the infection is excluded from the compulsory vaccination. Moreover, in the past, the Supreme Administrative Court's judicature was right to opponents of other vaccinations in case of so-called "conscience reservations." In other words, who proves immunity - not only by antibodies, but also by cell immunity, tested for example by a certified laboratory - will not have to inoculate himself just like the one who rejects him for moral reasons. That is probably why no one proposed compulsory vaccination because this would end the debate on the recognition of antibodies. The state would have to admit that millions of people who have good immunity may not be subject to state bullying and may not be vaccinated. But that's not the point again. This is a clear signal that the state is introducing a hard-core covid dictatorship in the name of the covid business. Compulsory vaccination should, according to the proposal, apply to persons over 60 years of age, to police officers, soldiers and other armed forces, and to firefighters and paramedics, or to employees in social care. In connection with existing counter-constitutional measures, firefighters and police officers are contacting us, by the way. For example, because of bullying measures, they must not exercise, train, swim, go to gyms and swimming pools. Many show that if vaccination is compulsory, they will leave the police, the army, or the firefighters. Indeed, the Minister of the Interior of Hamáček confirmed this with the hope that there will not be so many. It's really good in quotes that if the government manipulates it well, we're not going to lose tens of thousands, but hundreds or thousands of those who protect and defend our safety and lives. Thus, on the basis of the government's health proposal, people who take care of our safety must not strengthen their health in gymnasiums and pools and increase their immunity, and those who refuse to give unnecessary vaccinations, in addition, will push the government out of service. This is absurd and, at the same time, really disgusting dealing with those who protect us. Prime Minister Babiš said yesterday that vaccination is the only solution to the fight against covid. That's a lie. Every doctor, every person who has preserved the rest of common sense, knows that the basis of human health is its resistance to hostile viruses and bacteria, i.e. the natural human immunity that one builds from childhood, especially by natural contact with viruses and bacteria. Let us not really compare pears with apples, i.e. tested and prolonged vaccinations such as the TB vaccine, the Coronavirus vaccination or the influenza virus, where natural immunity is absolutely essential, because we have never had a universal and long-lasting vaccine against ever new mutations in these viruses. Ladies and gentlemen, if this isn't about health, what is it? It is quite clearly the Danish gift of this government to the coming government. Of course, it will have to choose whether to maintain or revoke the restriction of rights. In both cases, part of the citizens will not like it. Of course, this will also show up on the squirming and resistance of the parties to the two coalitions, which do not have an opinion on the emergency situation - I mean the emerging five-police government - who do not have an opinion on the emergency situation and do not have an opinion on any other unconstitutional and totally unjustified restriction on the freedoms and bullying of citizens and entrepreneurs. The bad news is that the Minister of Health Vojtěch is using the rights and freedoms of his fellow citizens to combat the coalition politically. Here I would remind the vote from Friday here in the House, because the SPD movement is the only one opposed to the abolition of Christmas markets. All the other parties have been interested in this essentially silence, or even in the case of the government movement YES, the markets have banned those markets, because on Friday there was a vote on the SPD proposal to abolish the emergency situation, because these measures can be implemented under the current law on public health protection and under the crisis law. Well, as the government's five-wheelers voted, that means ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates? When there was a vote on the motion to abolish the emergency situation, they alibistically abstained. Doesn't the new government five-calice have an opinion about whether or not the emergency is? Well, that's really a very unpleasant report for future governance when, on the fundamental fundamental issues of the five-calice government, it can't tell whether they're for emergency or not. Well, that's really incredible, and we're not going to have a good tomorrow. So in any case, they basically supported the abolition of Christmas markets, because those Christmas markets were canceled on the basis of an emergency announcement. At least that's how the government justified it. So they've all supported the abolition of Christmas markets here, and the only SPD has opposed it. We saw it in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, but let's go back to the proposal of the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for mandatory vaccination of selected groups. Ladies and gentlemen, do not be drawn into this trap and come with us openly to reject what your representatives have rejected both before and after the elections, as we in the SPD reject compulsory vaccination. Perhaps we agree that such a serious intervention in the rights and obligations of citizens should not introduce a government that is leaving and which, moreover, probably does not have the support of most of the House. But we will see in a moment, there will be a vote on my proposal to include this point. [[14.20 hours]] I therefore propose that we place on the agenda for today's House meeting on the first item an extraordinary item entitled The Discussion on the proposal of the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for compulsory vaccination. If this does not pass, then I propose to include this item as the last item in today's House meeting, and if we place this item in your vote, as I have already said, I propose to vote on this resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic is ordering the Government not to introduce compulsory vaccination against SARS-CoV-19." [[Correct SARS-CoV-2.]] On the basis of the vote that will take place here shortly, we will know who is in the House for compulsory vaccination and who is not in favour of compulsory vaccination, because whoever does not support our proposal for a point is in favour of compulsory vaccination. It's obvious. And who, of course, will vote in favour of our point, wants to keep volunteering for the reasons that I have said here. There's nothing in between. It's a discussion point. There is nothing in between and we would still vote a resolution, so either yes or no. Nothing in between. And I hope that the emerging government five-wheelers won't launder like on Friday, when they abstained from voting to cancel the emergency because they didn't know if they wanted an emergency or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-000-000.u3	Thank you for presenting the proposal. Next on the agenda is the Prime Minister in Demission, Chairman of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-000-000.u4	Hello, Madam President, honourable Members, as is known, the Minister of Health has covid, so he cannot speak here, so I would try to replace him here. I welcome President Okamura's proposal. For us, this will be another opportunity to explain to citizens why they should be vaccinated. The decree, which the Minister of Health has in charge, and its preparation took a few days, and now it is in the inter-ministerry, and we as YES - the government in demise, but even though we are in remission, we must act in favour of the citizens of our country, and therefore we are aware that this is, of course, a matter on which various experts have different opinions. The next government, which I hope will be approved in the week from 13 December, the new Minister of Health, Professor Válek, can change it again in five days. And if he does or doesn't, then of course it's up to the new government. Why do we want the decree? Firstly, it is a clear signal from the government for citizens that compulsory vaccination is the only way and that the government is serious. It is compulsory vaccination for individual professions and for people over 60 years of age. We believe that compulsory vaccination will psychologically support citizens' willingness to inoculate. People who don't want to get vaccinated live in various misinformations. For example, the sick think they can't get vaccinations because they're sick, but it's the opposite. Yesterday, we had a press conference with Prime Minister Fiala, Professor Douša was there, and he clearly said that all the sick must be vaccinated. They're the ones who need to be vaccinated. It's being introduced by the surrounding states, the United States. Austria is the only one introducing compulsory vaccination for all residents. Yesterday we had a session, the Israeli Prime Minister, the Austrian Prime Minister, it was very interesting. The vaccination is mandatory from August for health care professionals in Hungary. Compulsory vaccination of health professionals is valid from September in Greece. In Italy, as of September, vaccination obligations apply to health care workers. In France, all health professionals, caregivers in elderly homes, firemen, officers, a total of 3 million employees must be vaccinated. For caregivers, vaccination is mandatory, for example, in parts of Australia, Britain, Belgium wants to introduce compulsory vaccinations for all health professionals, and it is more than 400,000 people, the law should apply from 1 April. Finally, Prime Minister Heger would like to introduce mandatory vaccinations, but he has not yet found the support of coalition partners. We've exhausted all possibilities of positive motivation for vaccination. Thanks to the positive and negative vaccination campaign, we inoculated 72,9 percent of people who took part in the vaccination in this age category, +12 years is 71.3 %, +16 72.7 %. Of course, we have introduced the charging of tests, the form of O-N, that is, yes, unfortunately, another form of negative motivation. Today we have a number of mandatory vaccinations and we have a long tradition, because our children are getting the ten-pointer or whatever it's called. Yes, since the beginning of the year, the European Union - and we all said - that when we reached 70 percent, we were out, and it turned out that it wasn't true. So without 90% of the inoculation of the adult population, we will still be dealing with overloaded hospitals, and unfortunately we have an increase in the ICUs again yesterday, we have an increase in hospitals and, of course, various restrictive measures will be taken in waves, with an impact on business, culture and sport. "The decree" - and here I read the background from the Minister of Health Vojtěch - "we respond to the development of knowledge of covid-19 vaccination, which is the most effective measure to prevent the development of a disease with a severe clinical course requiring intensive hospital care and in a number of cases ending with the death of an infected patient. The World Health Organisation Emergency Committee, last at its meeting on 22 October 2021, has confirmed that the covid-19 pandemic constitutes a permanent threat to public health of international importance.' The European region - pandemic... the European region is the second most affected region, just beyond the region of America, a total confirmed case 85 404 262, killed 1 532 738 people on covid-19. And unfortunately, healthy people die, even the mother who gave birth, fortunately the baby was saved, died, was 35 years old and was healthy. He's really killing, he's a killer, and if anyone doesn't believe it, we're trying to explain it and convince it, but in the media space, on the networks, there's a lot of feces, a lot of hoaxes, a lot of misinformation. The situation with us - yes, we have 2,132 380 registered cases of infection and we are the most watered-up in the calculation of a million inhabitants maybe in the world, in Europe for sure. As far as I know, Germany has 5%, we have 20, and we're seven in terms of the number of registered deaths, and with the covid-19, it's eighth place. The trend and development of the epidemic situation in the Czech Republic is characterised by a significant increase in three monitored indicators for the evaluation of the epidemic. The high negative and risk aspect of the current epidemic is the high prevalence of diseases in the elderly and potentially vulnerable population, which is highly risky in terms of the severity of the disease, resulting in an impact on the health system represents a very risky potential for the number of new hospitalizations. The current state of affairs of the epidemic is consistent with a high-risk development scenario. [[14.30 hours]] The current state of affairs of the epidemic is consistent with a high-risk development scenario. We've been talking about this all last year, for God's sake, the vaccine! And she came for the first time on December 27, 2020. We all wanted to, we were waiting for the vaccine. Maybe not everyone, but what world science has done is great. So today we have different vaccines, people can choose. We have vaccination centers without registration, no waiting, here on Chodov, Black Most opened, we're working on O2 arena again, we're working at the Kotva department store. Everything is being prepared to re-enter that capacity up to 150,000 a day. Yesterday, with Prime Minister Fiala, we supported the initiative. It's great how many volunteers logged in. Our biggest problem is tens of thousands of paramedics and auxiliary personnel who are in the Czech Republic and PN. That's our problem. And what changed? Last year? Last year everyone was excited, everyone thanked the paramedics, and we still thank them. But now it's changed, because those people who are against vaccinations, even in the ICU, are aggressive at them, they're swearing at them, they're swearing at them. And that's really very wrong, because our paramedics are de facto doing their best. They're really tired to the max, and it's not right for vaccination deniers to act like this. This aggressiveness is only huge because they read some nonsense, some nonsense, because it's an experimental vaccine. It's not an experimental vaccine. That it doesn't work, that the vaccination is actually nonsense. Well, I've been vaccinated three times, and our president, if he hadn't been vaccinated, he'd be in an ICU right now when he had covid. I don't know how to convince these people anymore. So the hospitalization is... there's a clear effect of the vaccination. And unfortunately, now we have an increase in the senior group of hospitalized patients, on average, on a daily basis, more than 600 new patients are admitted to hospitalization and an average of 100 new patients per day for intensive care units. Hospitalization shows that 69 percent of patients in intensive care units are non-inoculated patients. Non-inoculated patients! And their average age is 62 years. We did our best to convince them. They wrote letters, VZP, practitioners received a bonus of 380 crowns from 1 September 2021. Now from November 15th, there are 500 crowns of food supplements for each new first vaccinated senior. So these are the most threatened people, and of course we're still working on them. It's hard because the misinformation is absolutely incredible. Or moms, pregnant women, yes. If you ask Professor Pařízek, he'll say, "Yes, inoculate yourself, for God's sake, inoculate yourself." And if that mother had been vaccinated, she probably wouldn't have died. We must once again popularize this and say to people: No, it is you who are sick, chronic patients, that you are the one who must vaccinate! Yesterday, Chief Douša made it clear, it's important. As per 100 000 inhabitants, in November 2021, the seven-day incidence of new income per intensive care unit is more than quadruple higher in patients not vaccinated than in those with completed vaccination. We keep saying that. Yesterday, the Israeli Prime Minister told me to reduce the strengthening dose from six months to five that the Izraelec wanted to shorten it to three and four months, that the most important dose is the booster, the third one, protects it. And according to the Izraelec, they even say that they might protect it for life. I think everyone knows that Israel is the technological leader of the world in almost everything. So maybe we'll trust them, since some people don't trust us anymore. They have a team in South Africa, dealing with omicron. We don't know how the omicron's gonna be yet. It's clear that it's multiplely infected, and the transmission is significantly higher, but the impact is still unknown. Of course, we're working on it, and we're preparing for it. In November 2021, the seven-day incidence of new hospitalizations per intensive care unit is 14.1 patient per 100,000 inhabitants in the non-vaccuated population, while in the vaccine it is 2,9 patient. So 14.1 unvaccuated, 2.9 vaccinated. Well, I don't know why anybody doesn't believe these numbers anymore. Why? Why don't they trust our experts, our experts? I think it's obvious. I showed a graph last time. Ireland, I don't know what, 95 percent vaccinated, same incidence as the Czech Republic, 500 people in hospitals. We're 70 something, and we've got - I don't know - 6,400. So it's obvious, it's obvious. We are below the average of vaccination, we are among the countries of the last tens of EU together with Slovenia, Poland, Croatia and Slovakia. We have insufficient vaccination in high-risk senior population groups. In the 60+ group, the vaccination has completed 80 percent of the population and remains just below 300,000, of which about 59,000 have overcome the covid. Covid-19 has a much more serious health impact on people with reduced immunity levels, which, in addition to those with chronic diseases affecting their immune resistance, is typical of senior age groups. Therefore, we propose, or the Ministry proposes, compulsory vaccination from 60+, the average age of all hospitalized is on average between 65 and 70 years, and also for persons exposed to repeated exposure to viral agents in the performance of their profession. I think that... And I have no problem, I do not know how the members of the ANO movement will vote in favour. I took this opportunity to tell people that... And I've asked the Minister of Health to select experts to explain these things to people. If Prime Minister Fiala agrees to this, we can repeat that we will call people who will explain to people, and if they transmit all the televisions to finally believe that no one here is making up this, that it is very important and that, of course, people are dying again. Christmas markets: please remember Cheb, Christmas 2020 what was there. Hundreds, maybe thousands of people combined consumed, sawmills, rinks open until 3 January 2021. And everyone forgot how we transported those patients? How were the hospitals overwhelmed, 400 dead? 300 percent higher mortality, this is the Karlovy Vary Region and Cheb region January, February 2021. Yes, we discussed it with the government, but here the hygienists were absolutely uncompromising. Everyone said no, because Christmas markets, of course, attract people from all over our country. When the Kochův Institute, the most renowned institution in Europe, recommended ban it, the Dresdens canceled it, everyone canceled it. Yes, we're sorry, and of course we'll compensate the businessmen. I understand they've been preparing it for months. We tried, but it's a big risk, it's a big risk. We explained the difference to the business centers that there's an obligation to respirator, no consumption, food sluts were closed and there's just a way. So that's the explanation. And someone can tell me, yes, you could have made booths without refreshments. But even in Old Man and everywhere there are restaurants, and of course it would have turned out the way it did last year. But I understand that some people don't want to admit it. Some mayors went around, but, of course, they'll never forget to blame us for what happened in the covid. [[14.40 hours]] So this proposal by the Ministry of Health is mandatory vaccination from 1 February 2022 for people 60 years of age and older, for selected professional groups that are necessary to ensure the basic functions of the state - it would be absurd for a police officer to go to control the restaurant at O-N and not inoculated - and their activity is specifically aimed at ensuring the safety of the population, protecting their health and social needs and having a higher frequency of social contacts. So special vaccination against covid-19 disease is also proposed to workers of following professions, and these are persons providing health services or are employees of health services providers, persons providing social services or are employees of social services providers, persons preparing for the exercise of the health profession, members of the Police of the Czech Republic, customs officers, members of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, soldiers in active service, members or employees of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic, members of intelligence services. It's not a government decision, but, of course, we discussed it, we wanted to know how the Ministry had it invented. That's a decree. If the new government and the new minister decide to change it, they'll change it. And, of course, if the House were to approve the debate, this point, I would definitely recommend that we invite real experts here, those who could perform here, and it would serve in my opinion the further persuasion of the people who are looking at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I understand it, you have only stepped forward to support the point proposed by President Okamura, is that correct? Isn't that another point you're suggesting? [[No.]] Have a good afternoon, everyone. I'm asking if anyone else is applying with an amendment or an additional proposal to the proposal for a programme? If this is not the case, we shall now proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First, we will vote on the proposal made by President Tomio Okamura and proposed a new point as a first or last meeting today. The new point has the following name - before I read it, so I will engage - and I will now read the point proposed by President Okamura, which is the discussion of the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch's proposal for compulsory vaccination. We'll wait a little longer for our colleagues to make their way out of the lobby. We will therefore vote on a single proposed point. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with President Okamura's proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 3, 181 Members and Members of Parliament, for 26, against 17. This proposal was rejected. And now we will vote on the whole proposal for the 3rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number four, 182 Members signed up, for 178, against no one. The proposal, and therefore the agenda of the meeting, has been approved. Before we continue our negotiations, I'll read an apology. Mr Petr Beitl apologizes for today's meeting of the House for work reasons. Before discussing another point, and thus the Government's proposal for a law on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19, the House's press 49, shortened negotiations, would be in accordance with Section 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening the debate. If no one applies to the debate, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. In the meantime, I zagongovat put forward a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for discussing the Government's draft law on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, the House's press 49, in a shortened hearing.' I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with this motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number five, 183 Members and Members, for 177, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. And now I'm opening a point.
