ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u1	310. Proposal by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Petr Fiala, Marian Jurečka, Jan Farský and others for the issue of the State Aid Act in emergency measures announced in connection with the SARS CoV-2 Corona epidemic (reparation Act) /House print 1039/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 1039/1, and I would ask for the plaintiff, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, to take the position at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask Mr Milan Feranc, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to do the same. Before I give the plaintiff's representative the floor, I will ask the House again for peace. I'll wait... just a little longer. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the fact that we can discuss today at least the first reading of the compensation law that we have tabled together with colleagues from other parties. We are experiencing an extremely serious crisis, and yesterday we talked particularly about its health impacts, but we all know and feel that this crisis will have - and already at this time - extremely serious economic and social consequences, and in all countries of the world, there is no point in playing that we are in this exception. We can talk about whether our government has made more or less mistakes than the others. Yes, we really think that some steps have not been happy and have consequences. They also have their impact because when we compare the help that is provided in neighbouring countries and its form, for example, it really is not appropriate in the Czech Republic and we believe that it is not well targeted. Because what should be our goal? Our aim, all of us, should be to maintain as much business as possible despite the situation, despite what we are experiencing, despite the fact that, however it may be, the effects will always be serious. We need to be convinced in the long run that if, in particular, very small shops and services were opened with a condition of access to the respirator service, for example, if the government decided to give out high-quality respirators for free, it would pay off. Then all these little business and services, albeit in some mode, could work. I mean, we know, and the paramedics among us know that health professionals and social workers have been quarantined for many months now, or even when they're sick, they can go to patients with respirators. So this measure, this system measure, would really, really be one of the ways. But we're standing here today with a proposal that we believe is for the moment, and that compared to the steps of the government that has long devastated this group of people, those people who have been able to do business themselves, who have been building their own companies for years, who are all alone and active, so at this moment, they are completely on their knees. I know what I'm talking about because I've been in business for many years, and I know what it's like to make money, I know what it means to get customers, I know what it's like to work as a small businessman. And I can really guarantee it's very hard because no one's gonna give you anything. But today we're in a situation where we're really undermining these active people. It's an enormous amount of damage. And I know that also, it was said here that with the end of the crisis situation, there was actually the end of the compensation bonus. Many times our reservations about the compensation bonus have been raised here, how it is set, what it solves, how it helps or rather does not help. We therefore come up with a proposal that does not just address some compensation at a time of crisis. This is also one of our reservations about the government's progress, because not only the crisis situation, but also other measures in the pandemic period simply restrict and unfortunately must restrict our entrepreneurs. Therefore, our proposal not only talks about support and assistance at a time of crisis and measures announced in a crisis state, but expects that there will be regime and hygiene measures even after the end of the crisis. That is why this compensation law also addresses the situation of emergency measures issued by the Ministry of Health, emergency measures issued by the Regional Hygiene Station, in short, the situations that we will also deal with in future months and perhaps many months before we deal with the pandemic. What exactly is our compensation law dealing with? He mainly solves fixed costs because we all know that there are items that an entrepreneur, even if he closes, even if he does not do business, has to pay. And these are exactly the situations that are taking our businessmen to their knees at the moment. Therefore, we believe that fixed costs must be addressed by this compensation law, not only in the case of crisis situations, but also in cases where it is limited by the decision of the Ministry of Health or by the decision of health care stations. These costs include, in particular, rentals for establishments, buildings, land, premises directly related to the business - no one will forgive you these rents and even these costs can be absolutely deadly; costs for loans and leases. If a businessman already has a long-term loan, he has a lease, he has no chance of repaying this at the moment. Furthermore, it is the cost of necessary maintenance, servicing or storage of long-term assets and leased assets, including IT. It is also the cost of electricity, water, heating, cleaning and sanitary measures. We all know that even in closed premises, which is necessary at this point in the case of restaurants, you have to keep drowning, you have some costs, you have some flat-rate costs and some liabilities. Furthermore, it is the cost of operating licence fees, which will also not end by closing the door of the establishment. It's insurance costs. However, these are also other operating costs necessary to ensure the business activity of State aid bodies which cannot be suspended, or which must also be paid at the time of the ban or restriction on the operation of the business. We cannot put thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs in a state where decisions that are often necessary must shut down their establishments, they continue to have their flat-rate costs, and they do not have a chance to pay this even from the help they have been given, which is really extremely low compared to other neighbouring countries. It must be said that our proposal sets universal clear rules. It would be quick assistance, whether there will be a crisis situation or announced regime measures by the Ministry of Health or Health Stations. Ladies and gentlemen, every democracy stands on a strong middle class. Among the strong middle class are our businessmen, the active ones, those who are not afraid, those who have the courage, those who go into business. I really know it's not easy at all. If we care not to let this middle class fall, I beg you to support this proposal, because at this point they are really on their knees and they are on their knees with the very unfortunate measures that did not really help them. And it must be said: we all know that small shops, small establishments, small services, all those who have built, often for decades, their businesses belong to the lives of all our communities and cities. After all, they are the ones who make our lives even better, helping us to live quality in individual cities and villages. And I really think that we can't let them down, and we have to give them the hope that they'll bring their business through the crisis, that they can continue, that it's not over. I think what our society needs at this point is the hope that we will overcome this and that we will return to a life that will be normal, that we will draw closer to what we experienced a year ago that we took for granted. [[11.20 hours]] I think we are all well aware that there must be some measures. We're also aware that each of us cares about how the infection will spread here. But this really is a group we can't let go of if we care about keeping the middle class here, which is the basis for every democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u3	Thank you to the plaintiff's representative, Mrs Langšádlová. Now, as rapporteur for first reading, Mr Feranec, I will open the debate. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the news report will be very short. Draft by the Group of Members from 5. 10. 2020 Government discussed 4. 11. 2020 gave a disagreeable opinion on this. The Organisational Committee shall propose a budgetary committee as a guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the short report and open the debate in which I first have applications with priority rights - Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Minister of Finance Schillerová, then the rapporteur and then other colleagues. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that, after a long effort, this law has succeeded in the negotiations of our House and that it is possible to finally have a fair discussion with it. We have worked for this, as you know, several times, and we have also had an extraordinary meeting that has been called for this. Unfortunately, the reaction from the government parties has always been negative, so I'm glad we can finally have this discussion. I will briefly recall the history of this proposal. In spring, when the first wave, which, from today's point of view, could not even be called a wave, was such a wave, we asked the government to prepare clear legislation that would address the compensation of affected companies, businessmen. Because at that moment - and let's remember how the debates were going - there was a lot to worry about whether, under the crisis law, compensation for closed and otherwise limited operations was even possible. At that time, there were a lot of legal interpretations, battles of legal interpretations, that the law, which we have more or less written on a slightly different situation than the epidemic, but rather on the natural disasters that we have encountered here many times in the past, simply does not address such large-scale economic closures. That is why we wanted to bring order into this matter, so that it is clear that everyone knows - not only the disabled entrepreneurs themselves, but the state, the authorities - how to deal with the situation and what people should be entitled to in case the government, by its decision, bans or significantly limits their activities. The state forbade them to work in the first place for a few weeks, but today we see that in the end there were closings for months and some are still in the closure. This means their fixed costs, which they pay further, must be paid, but they do not have a single crown of income, because demand for their services is prohibited. It's not because they're doing bad service, maybe there's bad service in the tavern, they've had a beer, and they've had a bad brew, but it's because none of us can sit there and eat. They can operate the window to the maximum, and in that case it is a permanent limitation of income. As time passed, we asked the government to prepare such legislation. After all, the ministry and the ministry have hundreds, thousands of officials who pay themselves precisely those disability from their taxes so that, when anything such sudden happens, the state works, is helpful and able to solve the situation. It did not come to this, though the House also adopted the resolution by which the government called for such a step. That is why, over the summer months, when the situation was somewhat calmer, we took the proposal ourselves. We have presented it with the fact that we are aware that there is a need for debate on it - and this is finally happening; a debate on what specific parameters are to be there. I understand the criticism, which the Minister often repeats, that it is necessary to quantify costs for the state. But it's basically impossible if we don't know how long and how many of these operations will be limited. And you don't know that, either of you, so we can't blame each other in this case for who has the information or not to add it. We are also aware that you are dealing with a number of different programs, COVID - Rent, COVID - Gastro etc. Some of them, because there are already dozens of them together, could be abolished through the adoption of this legislation. It could be replaced by the form of assistance that goes through the Ministry, a form of assistance that would go through the law that would apply the Ministry and which would be clear for all in advance. Those conditions would be very transparent, unchangeable, and everyone would know what to do, what to do to support from the state, compensation - that's important, that's a better expression, because they wouldn't ask for any support if they were doing - what compensation they're entitled to get from the state for the situation. If we want our economy to withstand this enormous strain, this huge blow that some sectors are experiencing, it is simply necessary to have this help. And I don't want to say - and I don't want to raise a debate here about whether the state's aid is sufficient or not in the current rules - that you're not helping at all. I wouldn't dare say that. I just think that help could be better in the sense that it would really be clear, given by law, and that anyone who meets those conditions should be entitled to it. You know that different business associations also give their opponents to individual government programs precisely because now and then they forget about one sector or part of that sector, because the conditions are set rather strictly. This would have been removed exactly. It would have been removed by law, it would have been much easier, and in the finals it would have been easier for the state itself, which would not have had to deal with dozens of programmes, dozens of different aids, but it should have clearly given the limits of aid that would have been given precisely by what we are discussing here. I firmly believe that you all want to make it clear to the government that you want such rules to be here, because they will make life easier for everyone - not only for entrepreneurs and their employees, not just for the government, but for ministers who then judge it. And this should be our goal - clarity, transparency, simplification, and thus the acceleration of the aid itself, when individual entrepreneurs, businessmen would not have to wait for it for long months, but it would have been much earlier in their accounts, and that would have made it effective. I firmly believe that we are able to agree on specific parameters. Let's talk about what the amount of compensation should be, whether it should be 100 per cent of the fixed costs, as we propose in the case of complete closure, or 50 per cent in the case of restrictions. Let's have this debate. Let's move the law to second reading and joint efforts, as we do from the opposition, for example, towards the debate on the cursarbeit that we have been conducting here for a few months, so let's change it with joint efforts to suit you, too, to suit government parties, to accommodate across the political spectrum, so that we can stand up for it together and say: This, dear entrepreneurs and businessmen, here we have for you, we present and this will apply now. I thank you for going along with this, because I think there's a lot more to this than what political points are attributed to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u7	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Now with the priority right of the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government Alena Schillerová, the rapporteur will prepare himself with the priority right, then a colleague Výborný also with the priority right. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that there is no one among us who would doubt the necessity and obligation of the state to adequately compensate entrepreneurs and companies for the consequences of antiepidemic measures. Right after ensuring public health, the economy is the second most important issue that we need to address in the context of the pandemic. At the same time, these areas are interlinked, because it is not possible to have a functioning health care if the economy and public finances are in expansion. So here I think we're definitely in agreement. [[11.30 hours]] Allow me, therefore, to comment on the motion to issue the so-called compensation law. The law, which, in the light of the fact that the government has released more than CZK 200 billion for direct aid since the pandemic's arrival, already at first glance, is a bit like an attempt to break into an open door. While government programs, for example, recall compensation bonus, Antivirus, Infirmary, COVID - Rent, COVID - Gastro - Closed establishments, very effectively and flexibly respond to current developments in the situation, European Union activities in this area or to state budget options, the parliamentary bill of compensation does not solve such a basic issue as any quantification of the impact on the state budget. I quote from the submitted material: "The impact of the bill on the state budget will be negative and the specific amount can be difficult to predict." This, I think, is a very distinctive example of how this proposal is drawn up and how it takes into account the overall impact on our economy and everything that is based on it. The compensation law proposes a flat-rate compensation for the fixed costs of companies. However, I believe that the current model of individual compensation is not only a much more sustainable but, above all, a more appropriate instrument of assistance. And I dare to explain why. After all, the extent of the effects of the pandemic is different for each business entity and it is very difficult to find a fragile balance between individual segments of the economy. But the government has decided not to resign on this challenge and, on the contrary, to do its best. That is why, in this unprecedented situation, we have chosen a path to tailor-made government measures, and not a path to the first sight of simpler flat-rate compensation enshrined in the law very generally. We are not going to resign to linking aid to the real situation of specific entrepreneurs and companies. We are not going to resign to minimize the risk of undue luring funds out of the state budget. We have to take all of this into account. The proposed adjustment does not take into account the causal link between the exceptional measure and the extent of the injury suffered. This should be a fundamental condition for State aid rules from public budgets. This would not be fair and would not be effective in many cases, and that is something I certainly cannot agree with as Minister of Finance. Furthermore, the proposal contains a number of major legislative shortcomings. For example, it is not clear whether compensation should be paid from the budget chapters of the compensation bodies, or from the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, or from the chapter of the General Treasury. Or further: The proposal does not take into account whether the entrepreneur has already been compensated in any other way. Yes, there is absolutely no attempt to prevent overlaps and duplications of aid already granted with those that should be granted under the compensation law. This, once again, poses a risk of inadequate spending of State budget funds. The draft proposes 100 per cent compensation for fixed costs to those concerned by the business ban and 50 per cent compensation for those to whom the business had to be restricted. There is a complete lack of elementary efforts to take account of whether the contractual obligation of an entrepreneur to pay the compensated costs arises before or after the pandemic arrives. The law would also offer great potential for abuse here, because it would allow for the purpose of concluding contracts or increasing the payments contained therein, namely in order to obtain the appropriate compensation. Similarly, a serious shot in the dark is the proposal to compensate limited operations for fixed costs just and only in the amount of 50 per cent. Why 50 percent? It is not possible to compare the restrictions of, for example, a restaurant that was allowed to sell drinks and meals only through the window of delivery, such as the current situation of large supermarkets and hypermarkets. Although they cannot now sell an additional product range in the form of clothing or toys, the sale of their basic product range, i.e. food, of course works and I dare say it generates considerable profits. Another interesting thing is that entitlement to compensation would arise where an entrepreneur's status is at that time, no longer requiring him to be a person with any, albeit a minimum business history from before the outbreak of an emergency. Again, nothing would prevent the purposeful start-up of business activities in areas that have been affected by bans or restrictions. Although fixed costs are to be the determining criterion for determining financial assistance, the proposal cannot be accurately calculated on the basis of which criteria these fixed costs should be determined. The proposed remuneration of fixed costs, in particular relating to the hire of an entrepreneur's establishment, is designed as practically impeccable. The definition of fixed costs itself is not only very broad in terms of the type of costs that should be covered, but also does not include the overall maximum ceiling for such reimbursement. Nor does it require that, for example, the contractual obligation of an entrepreneur to cover these costs be established before an emergency occurs. Again, the proposals do not explicitly imply that these fixed costs had to be incurred in a causal context with the operation of the business. Allow me, then, a small probe in detail. Paragraph 2 (3) also ranks between fixed costs the costs of loans and leases, and it is not clear whether they are loans payable during the period of exceptional measures or only related costs, i.e. interest and other charges. Similarly, it is not clear from the wording of the proposal how fixed costs will be calculated by the applicant when the period for which fixed costs are incurred does not correspond to the period for which the exceptional measure will apply, i.e. whether a claim will only be made for the proportional part of the fixed load. The law also does not address what accounting document the beneficiary will submit. Nor is it clear whether any aid would apply to newly agreed loans after the law has become effective. The proposal between fixed costs ranks the costs of electricity, water, heating, cleaning and sanitary measures. However, it does not address whether these fixed costs mean actual costs or advances for such payments. If the costs are actual, they are usually known with a certain delay after the end of the settlement period. However, this does not correspond to the deadline for submitting the application and the obligation to attach a list of fixed costs when submitting it. Moreover, it will be very problematic to determine what part of these expenditures relate to the time when emergency measures were in place. If fixed costs are to be advances on payments for those deliveries, it should be noted that advances are normally set at an amount which depends on actual consumption in the previous period. However, there is no doubt that, in the event of an operating ban or a restriction on business, the consumption of electricity or water in the plants affected by such measures will be much lower than in the previous period when it took place without restrictions. Therefore, compensation for fixed costs would be provided to an unjustified extent. Fellow Members, I think it is really clear that this is a rather hot needle-sewn parliamentary proposal. In view of these very serious shortcomings in the proposal, I do not consider it appropriate, either as a lawyer or as Minister of Finance, to continue this proposal through a legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u9	Thank you, Minister, but I didn't notice any procedural motion or motion to dismiss, okay, so... of course, I just wanted to make sure I didn't overhear something because I was taking over the proceedings. Now, with priority rights, Mr. Mr. Milan Feranec... Well, I've had it marked from the foreman's office, okay, I understand you've got the right to priority, but otherwise I'd like to say that Mr. Marek is going to perform Výborný, otherwise the rapporteur has the right to priority, too, okay? [[Voice off the microphone.]] I get it, I get it, so I'm gonna cross you out of the priority here, and Mr Marek the Výborný will perform, and then - as an MP already - that is, Mr Milan Feranec, yes. Well, just one person. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Vice Prime Minister, fellow Members, I am, of course, a friend myself, and I would like to let Feranc go, that is not a problem at all. I will not speak very much, because the proposal here has already been presented in detail both Mrs Langšádlová and Mrs Pekarová Adamová. I would just like to say that the KDU-ČSL MEP also fully agrees with this proposal. We have repeatedly included this issue, and now I am referring to the justified compensation for entrepreneurs, businessmen, businessmen, people, in the program AntiCovid of the ODS team, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, because we really consider it one of the important steps where we politicians, in turn the government, must come up with hands, because of course those programs, as we know, here is a huge amount that the government has prepared. But to be honest, if you ask those entrepreneurs how they're orienting them, it's a huge mess. The rules change, some programs end, some haven't started yet. The means that should travel to entrepreneurs are often expected in the order of not days, but weeks or months, and some funds have not yet arrived to them. That is why we have come up with this proposal for rapid, universal, predictable and administratively undemanding assistance to entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, of course, it took a number of months before the government was even willing to accept the debate at first reading here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We're sorry, but in the end, it's good that we got to it. It's a good thing we got to it, and even the petitioners announced -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u11	I would like to ask the Member, because it is the second time in five minutes, if they would turn down the ringtone on their mobile phones. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u12	Thank you. I wanted to say that even the petitioners here have made it clear that they are ready for debate and discussion with the Ministry of Finance. Let's adjust these parameters, but let's maintain the basics of what the SPOLU coalition is coming up with, and that is quick, administratively simple and effective aid to those who are in any way affected by the consequences of COVID-19, or those restrictive measures that we, of course, do not criticize, the government must logically do. It makes sense for us to handle the pandemic situation. On the other hand, we must ensure that people here do not end up in insolvency, so that we do not ruin the whole business environment, which in the finals carries the bonus of the entire company, important and economic stability. So I would ask very much not to refuse to discuss this at all, and let us look for an optimal solution in the next committee discussion to maintain the basic parameters on which our proposal stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u13	Now, with priority right, the Minister of Industry and Transport has asked Karel Havlíček to prepare Mr Milan Feranec. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to step in briefly because, in principle, it is possible to agree that the programmes should be simple, that they should be handled quickly and that they should hit the maximum number of affected entrepreneurs. Ten programs for entrepreneurs are currently being used. These are programmes that have been tuned in the last few weeks and months with individual associations, professional groups, etc. To think that we're going to do all this with some ideal simple program, sounds good, sounds good behind the table, but in the finals, every businessman has a slightly different performance, every segment has a slightly different kind of business, and somehow it's absolutely universally impossible to fit. It is true that we had more programs in the spring, because we did it gradually, as the problems hit. We were largely inexperienced at serving a market this big. On the other hand, since autumn, I believe that these entrepreneurs are already quite well targeted. Nevertheless, we have decided to go through the simplification system and the simplification system results from the fact that we have built it new on programs that have proven to be highly successful, whether they were Antivirus-type programs or wage compensation schemes, COVID-type tradesmen's compensation bonus schemes, COVID-Closed establishments and COVID-Gastro, which compensate for owners through the size of its establishment converted into employees, or some other programs working with some cost regime, COVID-Rent etc. In other words, we are switching to a model where we have expanded the spectrum of those who can touch those programs - by making an absolutely crucial decision - so that anyone who has a turnover of less than 50 per cent against the comparison period can be admitted into it and can draw on it. It doesn't matter if it's a businessman, if it's a small company, a high school firm. It's a fair point of view. There are lower sales, so the indicator of starting to draw, here it is. At the same time, it increased to double the bonus for businessmen, thus solving a group of the very smallest businessmen. At the same time, the program, which was of great interest, COVID - Gastro and COVID - Accommodation on all types of companies. I have dozens and hundreds of emails coming from industry from suppliers and from those who have only been able to draw Antivirus so far, and they say in a matter of fact: We are in a situation today that we have 80 employees - I say textiles from České Budějovice, where I have just been - so far we have had the opportunity to draw Antivirus, that is good, but it was not enough for us. We have 30% of sales, and thanks to this new program, or area program, we can draw CZK 500 per day per employee, which is CZK 40,000 per day times CZK 30, 1.2 million. The company is saved. And that's just how it's gonna be for the company behind the company, and it needs to be viewed objectively. We don't just have business companies, we don't just have a gas station, we also have manufacturing companies here, and of course we have a whole range of those that are interlinking - suppliers, subcontractors, etc. So very simple and graspable. Yes, it is true that there was a so-called cost option in the discussion, which means a cost scenario, but let us be aware that the cost scenario also has its flies. First of all, if we were to judge all the businessmen today by cost or more precisely by spending, we would have super-government here because we're going to have millions of different coupons, invoices, and I don't know what everything is, and by the time we wake up, it's going to be done more slowly. And b, even if we were to admit that we were going to go by some simplified profit and loss account, what exactly are we saying, the cost perspective? Let us admit that this would be the quarter of 2019. Let's look at the costs and say, let's say 50 or 70 percent of the costs. Now let's not play for the percentage. What we're saying is that we're going to give everyone, regardless of whether it worked economically, whether he was spending, whether he had a profit, whether he had a loss, in other words, did you have a lot of costs? Did you spend money? Were you in loss? You get percentually the same as the one who acted economically, which was in profit, etc. I'm not saying it's a fundamentally bad program. All I'm saying is that each of these programs has their own bugs. And just as he can say today that recounting through employees isn't correct, even though there's a great deal of interest in it, so at the same time, I want to say that even the cost perspective, which would be more administratively demanding, isn't entirely without mistakes. That means we've come to this option, from our point of view, it's a fair option. Now, with the individual unions, we're fine-tuning the details, and in the next few hours, the longest units of the days, on Monday, we'd like to present it as the final program. We're convinced that at this point, he's not gonna be stuck in those networks where he doesn't get support, practically nobody. And if it happens to happen again, we're ready to quite specifically resaturate these segments. But this is actually a very small percentage, rather a promile of entrepreneurs. Yes, I can imagine the busts. But that's not the question of these area programs anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u15	A point of fact, Mr. Jan Skopeček. And then Mr. Milan Feranec is still ready. About two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u16	Thank you very much. I'll respond to Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I would just like to bounce away from what he was promoting here, that they want to simplify the system of support to a system that will decide on the number of employees. I consider this to be a huge mistake, and I would like to draw attention to this at the outset also as the Chamber of Commerce, which, of course, does not agree with this system. It would be a very unfair system. Let me give you an example. Two restaurant owners, one owns it on a small village with a very low rent, the other runs a restaurant in the capital city of Prague, in the centre, with a very many times higher rent. They both have one chef and two waiters. And yet these two, who have a completely different level of cost, will receive the same support from the state. Both the businessman in the village with less costs - both payroll and rent - than the businessman in the big city. So, Minister, I consider the employee system to be a terrible mistake. And it is the fixed costs that try to record that not all entrepreneurs are affected by the crisis as well and that, of course, the costs differ from one another. [[11.50 hours]] I understand that this may not be the perfect bill, but that's what the second reading is for us to discuss if the support is 100%, 80%, 70%, but please don't reject the idea itself. It's certainly a fairer system than what you're suggesting. I'll just remind you of the January numbers of the number of broken trades, over 20,000 of them, it's a record number. It is evident that in the second wave of the epidemic, actually entrepreneurs fall on their mouths and we are five minutes before twelve, or five minutes after twelve, to at least save some of them and ensure that there is a middle class. [[Time.]] And big corporations, those small and medium-sized companies that don't come out of bankruptcy. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u17	Thank you. And now for the de facto Minister Karel Havlíček and then with priority rights with the opinion of the club, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík for the pirát. Please, Minister, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u18	Just for a very short time. But I said so, Mr Skopečka, through Mr President. If we are comparing the village and the city, we are in favour of including the COVID - Rent program. That means if someone pays a little rent and someone pays a bigger rent, the rent will be compensated. But despite the cost perspective that it is, you actually confirmed it: because whoever manages very cost-effectively would then get little and whoever doesn't manage cost-effectively and will have to have a high cost - we can ask why he has such a high cost - then he gets a relatively large amount. So we go through a proven number of people, plus these people get 100 percent paid through Antivirus, so it doesn't really matter if someone's taking $15,000 or if they're taking $45,000, they get it, too. It can already be debatable, but it gets of course, it is not averaged, and it gets for every employee as well, that means 500 crowns, whether it works in the village or whether it works in Prague. And if some luxury restaurant in Prague has 20 employees, then let's just rephrase it: to top it all, it has 100 percent of its salary, it gets 20 employees times 500 CZK, that's 10,000 times 30, so it's 300,000 CZK a month extra for the owners. And on top of that, if we agree on rent, which I understand is for discussion, and we're in favour, at that point in time, we actually have the complete idea. I don't see the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u19	Mr Jan Skopeček is now making a point of fact. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared for action. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u20	Minister, it is not possible to argue with fixed costs that someone is more economical and less economical. There are simply objective differences in fixed costs, especially in rent, and it is clear that businessmen in Prague, who have rented a business in Prague, cannot be blamed for being less economical than an entrepreneur who rents an establishment in a very small town or village. That's an absurd argument. You could advise the operator in Prague to save money and move to the countryside. My second argument. After all, fixed costs are exactly the nature of the costs which can be changed very slowly and very complexly, unlike the variable costs associated with the operation of the activity. At the moment when the business is reduced, the fixed costs must be paid, and it is very difficult to respond to them in a crisis to reduce them, whether they are rents or whether they are interest payments related to his business, which he took at a time when there was no economic recession. The second aspect of why we are presenting this proposal is that we want to ensure greater simplicity and transparency in those programmes. We well know that in the first wave there was a big problem with a large number of programmes with different levels of administrative intensity with these programmes, that the success of these programmes was also very different and those unsuccessful were often very bureaucratically demanding. So going more along the way of one area program, which will replace a whole range of fragmented programs that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has written in the first wave, is certainly better with the advantage that the fixed costs within the area measure will distinguish between how different entrepreneurs are doing in different places of the Republic and how the crisis directly affects them, whether more or less. So let's talk about the setup, but let's accept that the principle, the idea is correct. [[Time warning]] Mr President, it is about two or three seconds that I have exceeded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u21	Here's the problem: there's a Rules of Procedure, now it's being dealt with, so we're making sure it's kept. Well, please, but check in again. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I also want to respond to the Minister's words. I find it very dangerous to say here that the companies that spent are something bad, and those companies are actually sparing, that's what we want. What do you want, Minister, as vice prime minister for the economy? You want companies that don't invest in the economy, they don't have costs, they're not the engine of the economy, or you want companies that invest in the modernization of their operations, and so on, because that's what costs depend on, that's what fixed costs depend on. You've made a comparison here that it's solved by COVID - Rent, but what about the restaurants that are in theirs that had to take credit to pay off the property they run it in, and they're in theirs, how do we cover them? So the thesis isn't exactly perfect. Of course, we can talk about whether the cost is better or the turnover and the differences in turnover, which would also be very fair, but let's use this law to finally talk about it, because we always learn what you invent from the press, and the number of programs doesn't make up for the fact that everyone is covered, at least a little bit is compensated for. In that number of programs, a lot of companies got lost, especially the second-rate ones. So let's take this opportunity, let's talk about it at second reading, let's communicate with us before you announce the programs, so we don't have to make unnecessary remarks about mistakes that you might not have made at the Ministry, and let's finally talk about it openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u23	One moment, Minister, because first of all, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, then the Minister. I'm just asking for time, otherwise there's a general clock, here they are, and, of course, I'll let one or two sentences finish, of course. And let me just point out that we have a fixed point at 12 o'clock. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In connection with the ongoing debate, I wanted to draw attention to two things that need to be highlighted, and why we consider this law necessary, and that is the question of inequality between people who are in rent and people who have mortgages. Today there are a number of entrepreneurs who have a mortgage on their establishment and, unlike entrepreneurs in the same sector who are renting and receiving support, they are now getting nothing. This, in our view, is a very serious problem that needs to be dealt with urgently. This is one of the reasons why we strongly support the release of this law until further reading, or we can talk about technical solutions and other details, but it is simply very necessary. Secondly, what I get very often is the question of the support programme for employees who generally have support - entrepreneurs are glad that something has finally started in universal quotation marks - but at the same time a number of entrepreneurs point out that it has come so late that they have already released their employees, especially if they are in long-term completely closed sectors such as gastronomy or tourism. There's a feeling of great injustice that they're still being punished by now losing this support to replace the support of others. So I'm pointing out this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u25	Now, on the point of fact, Minister Karel Havlíček. Please. I'll have to stop you at 12 o'clock, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u26	It'll be very quick. It is precisely what our colleagues have said that we are trying to focus on clearly defined costs, people's costs, fully paid, fair rent costs, paid. And if there's a situation that maybe someone's still paying off the mortgage, that's why this program is there, the area program that over the number of employees is converted into the monthly amount that the entrepreneur gets. He has 10 employees there, 5,000 crowns a month times 30 - 150,000. It can pay, for example, a mortgage payment, a lease or anything else. But I am of the opinion that despite the costs universally, if we pay everyone any percentage, it is also really unfair, because someone can have a car for CZK 200,000, someone can have a car for CZK 2,000,000. If we give him 50 percent of it, he has 100,000 or he has 1,000,000 crowns. That doesn't seem fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-003-310.u27	I let the two sentences finish, yes. Please, we have 12 hours, so I'm going to interrupt this press meeting, maybe we'll get back to him. And so now we have a fixed point, and this is
