ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise He wanted to ask the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee Stanislav Grospič to inform us of the steps he has taken, and then he made a prescribed promise to the Constitution, which the Member will put in my hands. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. [[There is noise in the hall, some Members are not yet sitting in the benches.]] I'd like to ask for some peace in the room. Please take your seats, allow a dignified atmosphere for the pledge of a new Member. Thank you again. Alternatively, keep the interviews five minutes later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u2	Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to inform you that on 1 March 2021, MEP Ilona Mauritzová, elected as Citizen Democratic Party in the electoral region, number 4 - Plzeň's President of the Chamber of Deputies, delivered a statement written in the form of a notary record giving up the mandate of a Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic. According to the provisions of § 54 para. 1 of Law No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, an alternate from the candidate list of the same political party, political movement or coalition listed on the candidate list for the election region in which the candidate of the Member whose mandate was vacant, according to the results of the elections. The second and third alternate of the Civil Democratic Party for the 4th electoral region has delivered notary minutes to the President of the Chamber of Deputies giving up their position as alternate members in the elections held in the Chamber of Deputies on 20 and 21 October 2017. In its Resolution 149 of 6 January 2021, the mandate and immunity committee stated that the position of a third alternate member of the Civil Democratic Party as an electoral region 4. - Plzensky . Mgr Pavel Karpíšek was lost on 15 December 2020. In resolution 171 of 16 February 2021, he stated that the position of second alternate member of the Civil Democratic Party as electoral region 4. - Plzensky . Vladimír Vilímc disappeared on 8 February 2021. On 17 February 2021, the President of the Chamber of Deputies delivered the notary minutes and the first alternate of the Civil Democratic Party for the election region 4. - Plzensky Ing. Jiří Šneberger, who resigned from being an alternate. On 17 February 2021, Ing adopted today's mandate and immunity committee by its resolution number 173, which stated that on 17 February 2021. Jiří Šneberger lost his position as the first alternate of the Civil Democratic Party for the election region 4. - Plzensky. The status of alternate members was extinguished in accordance with the provisions of Section 3, second sentence of Act No. 90/95 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. At today's meeting, the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution 174 stating that: On 1 March 2021, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was terminated by Docent Paeddr Ilona Mauritzová, ., born on 29 December 1959, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3 and 6 of the Scripture. (c) Law No 90/95 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended; On 1 March 2021, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was created by Mr Mgr Pavel Šindelář, born 14 December 1980. President of the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with the provisions of Section 2, second sentence, Section 29 para. Article 4 (1) (a) 2a) Act No. 90/95 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, called on the vacant mandate of the Civil Democratic Party for the election region 4. Plzeň Region Mgr. Pavel Šindelář, to whom he handed over the certificate of appointment today. I ask Mr Šindelář to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and to the President of the Chamber of Deputies to take the prescribed oath. At the same time, I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to accept the pledge of the Member. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The present rise.]] "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." [[By handing the President of the Chamber of Deputies, MP Pavel Šindelář makes a promise.]] Dear Member, congratulations and a lot of success in your work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u4	Allow me to welcome Mr Pavel Šindelář among us and wish him every success in his parliamentary work. We will now proceed to the verifiers of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u5	Thank you very much. I thank the Vice-President for standing up for me for a moment. We continue with the verifiers. I propose that we designate Jana Černochová and Jan Čižinský. I'm asking if there's another proposal to identify the verifiers. No one's checking in. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, 111 Members signed up for 108, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Černochová and a Member of Jan Čižinský, as verifiers of the 87th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I also note that Members who are not present today or excused in writing are deemed to be excused, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all the Clubs. So we're going to sit in a reduced half format. Jan Blatný - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček from 14:00 to 15:00 - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 January this year, by decision number 87 on the basis of a proposal from the Government, I have declared a state of legislative emergency. I would remind you that we have already included in the draft programme proposals for laws that have been tabled in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. This is a government bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and on the amendment of certain laws, crisis law, it is a House press 1152, shortened negotiations, and a bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws, crisis law, press 1111/2, rejected by the Senate. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that a further House press approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a government bill to increase income compensation in quarantine, House press 1171, shortened negotiations. By decision number 97, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, and I ordered the House press to 1171 the Committee on Social Policy and set it an unstoppable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 16.00 today. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I see no one, I end the debate and we proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 109, for 98, versus 4. Vice-President Okamura said his device wasn't working. I'm shutting you all out now. Please try to log in again. Maybe I'd like to check in, see if anyone else has a problem with the log-in. I'll check you all out one more time, third time. Please log in again, and if anyone has a problem with login, please report it to me. There's a cause, it's gonna take a while. In the meantime, I will introduce you - I will read the apology, Minister Toman apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons. And we will slowly proceed to the proposal for the 87th meeting, as stated on the invitation. First, by getting to know you with suggestions that today's grémium has agreed on. We propose to include a new item on the agenda, which was presented in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, which is press 1171, which I have already mentioned. Further include new points in the Report block, suggestions and others, and this is the point of appeal against the decision of the mandate and immune committee § 16 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and, furthermore, paragraph Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the inclusion of Members of the Chamber of Deputies' staff in the critical infrastructure of the State. We also propose a firm inclusion of the items on the proposal for a programme as follows: paragraph 375, House document 7182, Draft rules on the management of Members' clubs for 2021, and paragraph 468, House document 7528, Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources and its implementation at national level, to include the first two points on Wednesday, March 3 at 14.30. Furthermore, point 2, House press 1111/2, a crisis law rejected by the Senate, to be the first item on Tuesday, 9 March. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes changes in the order of the first reading block, namely paragraph 83, printing 1044, a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Civil Card Act, to include as paragraph 41, print 1043, a government bill on the Civil Card Act. In addition, paragraph 107, press 1163, the Government's Bill on the Electronisation of Health, and paragraph 108, House's Press 1164, the Government's Bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Electronisation of Health, include as a third and fourth point in the block of first reading. 23 days. 2. took back the Representation of the Pardubice Region by the House press 991, the Act on mitigating the impact of the decline in the tax revenues of the regions in 2020, the first reading. So please cut point 281 of the draft programme. This shall no longer be put to the vote. Finally, an organizational communication. On Thursday 4 March at 11.00, an extraordinary 89th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin. The subject is election law. That is all from the Gremium at the moment, and I will therefore ask them to express themselves - the first Vice-President Okamura reported, then the priority right of Mr Chvojka. Okay. Then Mr. Rakušan. I'll write you down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation has come to such an extent that, in the opinion of the SPD, it is necessary to allow the rapid emergence of a supraparty government of experts in agreement with the President of the Republic, who, of course, has constitutional powers in this, because this government has definitely lost public confidence. The current government does not have a strategy, does not respect the views of the experts, threatens the repression of the police for violating government measures, and creates only further chaos, thereby fully responsible for the current situation. [[14.20 hours]] Above all, it is necessary to demand personal responsibility, i.e. the demise of individual members of the government responsible for this condition, and to allow for the rapid establishment of a supra-party government of experts. Here, according to the Constitution, is the President of the Republic's move, because this government has definitely lost its trust. This year, in the first half of October, elections are scheduled for the Chamber of Deputies - six months from now - where citizens will hand out new political cards. We also believe that the Government should ask the Chamber of Deputies for confidence, because it is evident, on the basis of the last vote, that the Government does not have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies for fundamental steps. The government should therefore ask the Chamber of Deputies for confidence to see if this government still has majority legitimacy. So we would like to ask the government to ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. If he does not do so, we will collect 50 signatures of the Members to make this vote, because people are at a loss, people can no longer, citizens are really desperate about this government strategy, which is that there is and will be an endless lockdown. For the SPD, I say - and we repeatedly say this and propose a specific constructive alternative - that lockdown is not a solution. Flat bans aren't the way. In this context, I would like to include a new item at a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies entitled Cancellation of Emergency Situation. I suggest you include this as the first point of the meeting today, because we think the situation cannot be delayed. I propose that the resolution be voted on: 'The Chamber of Deputies is abolishing the emergency situation with immediate effect'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u7	Thank you. I'm going to correct a little of the individual priority rights, just like I said on the microphone. I didn't know there were written applications with priority rights. Mr Jurečka was the first to sign up with priority rights, then with priority rights for TOP 09 Vice-President Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Two ministers, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, allow me on the agenda. I would like to propose that we make an adjustment to the agenda of the meeting, and that we press under number 7332, the House document under this number, whether I am precise, which below me is the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for a crash in Bečva, to include on the agenda of this meeting this week, either on Wednesday, at 17 o'clock, or as the first item in the meeting on Friday. I'm asking you nicely to support this point here. It can be discussed quite quickly and this committee of inquiry can start working because we are in a situation where it was first announced that the expert opinion of a police forensic expert will be published on 20 December. We were then assured that this expert also needed some time and that his expert opinion would be published at the latest or, respectively, he would pass it on to police investigators for processing, at the latest at the end of February. That didn't happen either. We have here on March 2nd and we think that it is necessary after such a long period of time to really move forward with this issue. It is appropriate to set up an investigation committee on the House's soil, so please support this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Feri. Then President Chvojka would have prepared himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. The government has taken new measures, and they are traditionally a mess, and there are doubts about it. We would therefore like to build some things for sure, and we would like the government to inform us and, above all, the citizens involved. If I were to mention some of the problematic points that have brought about the past few decades. For example, we have experience that cops require work confirmation for every day. This means that the employer cannot issue a confirmation for three weeks: Yes, this is our employee, yes, he comes from this place here, but apparently in some cases they want a certificate valid only for that day, for that one trip. The next question is why the government, which is enchanted by the electronization of the government, wants paper confirmation at all costs. Sure, there could be some hygiene risks involved. But everyone doesn't have a printer, almost everyone has a smart phone. And getting some paper in a hurry, if you have an urgent trip, it can simply be a complication for citizens. Another problem, for example, is how to prove that you have a place to live when you live there, so-called "good word." That means, maybe you're staying with your parents for a short time, your relatives, you don't pay for your energy. How are you gonna prove that to those cops? This is a situation in which tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people, are suffering simply from some kind of necessity in this matter. Specifically, a thing that has also been encountered by a number of people. You have a car, you put it in the shop, or it goes wrong, and you want to put it in the service, you have a brand that no one in your district is repairing, there's no authorized service. According to current measures, this is not possible, at least that is the expression of the Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade. What about the S.T.K., can I go to the S.T.K. in another county? That's what we'd like to know. For example, there is also a question of racing eating. Why has it been changed so quickly, or why has it been introduced at all? What reasons led the government to do so? That means we're not gonna chase you with a stick here, but we want information for the people it's touching, and it's gonna be touching for at least three more weeks. I therefore propose a new item entitled Government Information on New Measures and propose its firm inclusion after agreement with Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček for tomorrow at 9.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the club ČSSD Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I have some suggestions here that I have failed with some of them on the grémium, and some of them have been forgotten by all of us who sat on the grémium. Then I'll start with the ones we forgot about. We were talking about how the House would act and when it should act and in what format and we forgot that, first, we should include the law in a short hearing, press number 1152, on crisis management. I would therefore like to include this press as point one for today. Thank you. Then we have a government bill to increase income compensation in quarantine. We didn't put that on the grémium, either. koneckonců all, the Social Committee was also involved. I'd like to place this press at 1171 for today at 17 o'clock, i.e. tight. Then I'd have two other designs here that I failed with on the grémium. I have to load them here, and maybe these are proposals that, even if they pass, their discussion is rather theoretical, because it is possible that the two printings relating to the construction law will be so long within the points of the second reading block that they will not be able to reach other points from second reading. But even so, I would like to suggest that, as we all have it in front of us, that block of second reading points, so that under item 7, print 904, which is the proposal of the Ministry of Finance on recovery procedures, press 1091 is included.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u13	Thank you. We will therefore vote on each press separately, I presume. It also sounded on the grémia. With priority rights, President Rakušan, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u14	Hello. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, members and members of the government, this time I'm not here to ask, I'm even here to beg. I've been trying to include item 283 here every last month, House press 1006, short for singles, singles. The situation is now more serious than it was after the few weeks I've tried again. We have a state where kindergarten schools have been closed, we have a state where no primary school classes work at all, and mothers who have to attend to their compulsory school children have no choice at this time to secure their earnings, how to make money, how to take care of themselves. According to information from non-profit organizations, debt in this group of people is greatly increasing. We're getting to the point where most women, but sometimes even men who take care of their own children, get into debt traps from which, after the end of the pandemic disaster, there will just be no escape. These people will multiply the group of those who get into the executioner's traps, they will get into problems from which not only they or they themselves will, but also their children will not get away for years to come. I do not really have ambition, and once again, colleagues, I repeat, to push for my proposal, which is available in the system. I'm prepared for any discussion on your part, any change from the Ministry or the Government. My only concern is that you, by your free vote in accordance with your best conscience, decide whether to deal with this vulnerable group of residents and residents of the Czech Republic on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Let's not forget them. Please come up with a better system than the one-off aid I propose in my own and financially calculated material. Let's just talk about it and use my press, which has been in the system for a long time, as a material carrier. We're gonna open this debate because now it's really up to date. Now, for three weeks, these people are once again exposed to getting to the brink of what is even financially viable. They're going into depression, they're getting into debt traps. We're here to help groups. The Prime Minister, and I welcome this, has repeatedly called on us as opposition to come up with concrete proposals that can help now, in this crisis. I do not come up with any political issue, I do not dogmatically insist on the quality of my proposal, surely government legislation can do better than we can in our legal advice. I am only asking you to finally, after you have rejected me four times, and the House's Grémium rejects it all the time, place this point on the table. This will help a specific, very affected group of residents and residents of our country. There's nothing political about it, nothing electoral. You all have your parliamentary offices, your parliamentary e-mails. And please don't tell me that you didn't get any e-mails or you didn't have a visit from your mom, who's a single parent, and she really doesn't know what to do anymore. We're here to help people in crisis. We're helping entrepreneurs, we're helping businessmen, we're trying to talk about helping people in quarantine today to compensate for their income losses. Let's not forget one group of residents. We helped the elderly with our decisions. Please vote each one according to your best conscience. I'm ready to discuss any changes to the proposal, but it's a group that calls for help, and we're here to hear it. Thank you for your attention and I also technically propose that we discuss the item today at 18 o'clock, or tomorrow at 18 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. First, a brief comment on my foreman. I don't have that optimism about the quality of government legislation. We'll close the race dining room, open it, close it, open it. Now I've seen the headline, the official interpretation of the Ministry of Finance: The entrepreneur can't, of course, but the accountant can go to the businessman, of course. Who's supposed to know? Seriously. I've had a press conference with the Home Secretary in the past few days with Boris Johnson's password, and the yellow graphics, Stay home, save lives. I'm telling you exactly, Minister. And I want to ask you, if you look in the O.R., what kind of example we're setting ourselves. We have unsuccessfully tried to propose, today on political grémia, that we should act rationally only this week on Tuesday and Wednesday, because the House meeting does not concern only Members but also employees, whether the Chamber of Deputies Office or our co-workers. We bumped our head into a wall. And by the way, and it's not good news, last week was a parliamentary week, Friday we met in full format, one of my colleagues here on Friday was with you and 160 Members with him. It's covid positive. Now we can try out how the tracking works and which one of you will get a call from the health department. I don't know who sat here for how many hours, I was excused for medical reasons on Friday, so it's none of my business. And that's how it is every day, and some clubs pretend that reality is completely different. So, Minister, stay home. What kind of example do we set?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u17	The Minister of the Interior has signed up with priority rights. He was a hair faster than President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u18	Thank you. If you don't mind, Mr President, a response to the President of the ODS. I understand him and, of course, the point of the Home Office's campaign is to ask our citizens to consider very carefully whether they need to leave their home, whether they need to leave their home, and the fewer contacts, the better chance we can contain the virus. I totally agree with that and, of course, what I see around me is, in terms of professional or anti-epidemiological routine or arrangements that are at risk. No, I don't think so. I just feel like you're turning a little bit towards the wrong target. I mean, if you asked me to go home, I'm gonna go home, but I don't think that's gonna solve it. This means that this is a matter that must be decided by the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies. There was a time when I was in charge of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would have had some influence on that at the time. Now, unfortunately, as Minister of the Interior, I can only observe and say that this arrangement does not really suit the epidemic and the fight against it. But the solution has to come from somewhere other than the Home Office. I just want to thank you for mentioning our campaign. And speaking of which, I want to say yes, we used a British pattern, we actually copied it into words, and we did so with the approval of the British party, to explain some information that goes on the Internet that we stole something. No. We used this style with the approval of the British Party and after communication with the UK ambassador in the Czech Republic. The campaign worked in the UK, and I firmly believe it will work in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u19	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u20	Thank you. I will follow the words of the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. I think it's great to inspire with good examples abroad, only this campaign is 10 months late. The British government was able to do it right at the start of last year's pandemic wave, so I'm gonna ask the government to do this faster. I have one request - it is a pity that the Prime Minister is not here to start this meeting, especially on him and, of course, also on the leading representatives of this government, including Minister Hamáček. We also try to promote respect for the measures we receive, to limit contacts, to behave wisely, to separate us, to masks, to reason, to our hands. I've been getting hundreds of questions since last week, since Friday, what do we think about these measures? Oh, please, you're not making this easy for us. Like today's story with dining rooms across the republic, including the dining rooms in hospitals, social facilities, up to the dining room in the House, so we really are assholes in front of these people. It's like in Kocourkov - there's the best crisis manager here who told us on Sunday at Prima and Č - "I, I, I," he arranged it only in this country, so he just doesn't know how to kick the government out of this arrangement, he calls a few people, he asks how it's going to work in practice, if there aren't companies that have it sorted out, which have separate seats in the dining halls, and first it kicks out, it gets publicized, people write to us, especially you, what the government has gone crazy. We have to explain it to each other, too. To explain to these people that we, as opposition MPs, are not really the government, that we have not decided on this. But it just doesn't make sense. Well, try asking me sometime before you kick those things out. The Friday debate was illustrated: on Friday morning one kilometer, then somehow, we tried to make a compromise solution, so there is a cadastral or a city or a village. I understand that every parameter is questionable and that some compromise is sought. But if it's not premeditated, consulted into the consequences, then it's hard for people to look for logic. So I'm asking you, please avoid these nonsenses here, these crazy measures that just don't make sense, and these people, thanks to these measures here, continue to lower their confidence in what the government is doing. Please weigh nicely before you put these things out, what impact it will have and what response it will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u21	Thank you. Another with priority rights, President Stanjura, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u22	The Minister understood it correctly that the campaign was good, it was not criticism, nor that we were inspired abroad. Mr. Secretary, I didn't call on you as Home Secretary to somehow arrange it through your resort here in this room. But you are a vice prime minister, a prominent member of the government coalition, and without the approval of the government coalition, what I have been talking about, for example, cannot be realized, and the consent is not yet. We wanted to choose laws that are directly related to the current situation, those to discuss - I am not saying that we agree on them, that is another thing - those to discuss and the House to decide. There's no point in saying in advance which law passes that doesn't pass. But a moment ago, President Chvojka proposed for 17 hours a law that we did not have to discuss at all, not to be the political arrogance of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which simply pushed the force of pointless stickers, which certainly did not relate to the legislative state of emergency. It wasn't in a state of legislative emergency, the two stickers that you socialists put in there. That law could have been in effect long ago. Then you send him to us yesterday at 8 or 9 p.m., and the secretary goes on TV and says, "The House will approve tomorrow and the day after the Senate." Where are the labs? Where are the opponents? There was something completely different about EKLEP than the government approved. So start at your place, please. The law could have been passed by now, but your secretary put her head up, ran and with her 99 colleagues or 100, she doesn't vote, so 100 colleagues ran against the wall, and then crashed into that wall. At the same time, the Senate proposal was very good, even before the government responded to the fact that the quarantine would be 14 days. Only political arrogance has caused the law not to apply, and we have an understatement, a semi-finished product with a password, a PR, a press conference, no time for a good debate. Did you ask the employers? I guess you didn't make it. I've been getting calls from employers since last night, since the press conference. But now at 17, let's vote it out fast, preferably at 17.01. Let's vote it out and send it to the Senate. You can't do that in a crisis! I really don't. So instead of rationally telling each other what laws we need, maybe they didn't enforce 100 percent, like the socialists wanted with their stickers, so no, we have to discuss it again and again and again, in a hurry, without the possibility of a good debate. Then there's an increased risk that the law won't work. I would ask all government officials to stop accusing the public. I can still hear, I'd say, rude words to the public address. Today is March 2nd. It's a year and a day, on the contrary, I would like to appreciate our public, the overwhelming majority of citizens, that they still have patience with this government and that they are trying to follow it, but they don't know what, neither does the government - the dining room, the accountant - and this is how we can proceed. It's no use. And if we just want us to sit here and discuss laws that are of immediate importance, then no. And look! I say 160 of us were here on Friday, and at least one of our colleagues is covid positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u23	President Bartošek, priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have one suggestion, we have a series of third readings waiting for approval. First, point 326, House press 966, low-carbon energy, which I expect will continue to be discussed. For this reason, in order to be approved by another third reading, I propose that this point be placed at the end of the third reading block for the reason that other laws may be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u25	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President of the Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u26	Make me a little positive. I would like to thank you if I picked it up correctly, Minister Hamáček, because at the suggestion of Dominik Feri, tomorrow morning at 9 a.m., the point where certain questions and uncertainties will be answered - at least I have the information, I was not there at the time when you were acting not entirely negative - that he admitted that this would be possible. I, for one, may sound lightly, but I have two specific questions and I would send them all to the minister in advance - we agreed so much on the grémia that we would do so, we are talking really about practical things that we would like to do in order to make it as useful as possible and for the benefit of the citizens. One question may be marginal, but it is very important for many people. In those exceptions to traveling between counties, the services fell out. It's very important for a lot of people, it's irrelevant for a lot of people, but at least we could consider whether it wouldn't have been possible if the man couldn't travel elsewhere in Easter than outside the county. To make it an exception. Or maybe it doesn't, but at least let us know we don't want it. The second thing I consider more important: we are talking here about testing in state enterprises and precisely defined facilities. I don't need to know if stock companies belong to this, because some hospitals are stock companies, so whether they are involved or not. Once again, I would like to be completely unconflict - I really am not demented right now, it would be to know, so I hope that now I know them that I am not - I would really like us to have the concrete ones - the fact, through Mr President, Mr Faltýnek, I really would not - so I would really like if it were possible to include this in the morning, I would support Dominik's proposal. And I want us to answer these questions here because I think it's our role. I'm going back to that last week, three times positive in eRouška, and basically we didn't know how to proceed properly. And we should be the ones who say that and who will take advantage of the fact that Czech television transmits this, and that information, when it comes from here, citizens have something to appeal to. It's simple, it's obvious, so let's do it this way, this time without political struggles and just for the benefit of the people who listen to it, or those who may not listen to it, and they'll still find out. The second thing is, I would like again to really thank the staff of the Chamber of Deputies, very, very strongly, because we need to realise that they are covered by all measures like everyone else, which means that they are closed to kindergartens, and therefore they have to babysit their children. They are subject to various restrictions, and yet we want them to work far more than usual because they receive a number of laws in the evening, they receive them overnight. [[14.50 hours]] There are a number of things that we can do for this, and that is why I am very happy and I want to thank you for this, that we will have a constructive debate on how to simplify and say speed up the House's negotiations so that it is manageable for employees as well. They're really doing a huge job right now, and we need to realize that maybe we are, but they certainly have the House working on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u27	Thank you. I do not see anyone with priority rights, and I will ask Mr Munzar, who is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u28	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not often perform with a request for a change of programme, but I would ask you today to consider the priority of this meeting. It is paragraph 303, House press 1126, amendment to the Real Estate Mediation Act. What's going on? Tomorrow, March 3rd, the deadline for the transition of free trade to tied for real estate brokers and for many real estate brokers was a condition to pass the exam for this transition. Although we once extended the term here in the House, because of the second wave that no one had anticipated, and the current situation with the covid could not be passed by real estate brokers, and therefore they really cannot operate tomorrow. According to the Ministry of Regional Development, this problem concerns up to 2 000 people. If we delay, the time when they will not be able to carry out their activities will be prolonged. Therefore, I beg you to extend this House's press as quickly as possible through the first reading, he - because tomorrow the deadline will expire - must be adjusted in the next readings, but the more we delay, the longer the brokers will be in doubt. Therefore, even in agreement with the Minister, I propose that this item be placed firmly on Wednesday tomorrow as the first item of the afternoon meeting, or after the fixed items of the afternoon meeting tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u29	Thank you. And I will ask that Mr Lubomír Volný take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u30	Hello, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will just make sure that I understand the Rules of Procedure correctly when, given that I have four proposals to amend the agenda, I am entitled to a 20-minute speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u31	It's the beginning of a meeting, you don't have a time limit - for next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u32	Okay, thank you, I'm well-informed again. So we have four points here to change the program. We propose to include as the first item of the programme a government report on the legalization and distribution of Ivermectin in the Czech Republic, as the second point we propose the end of the emergency situation, thirdly the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the reasons for the deaths of patients treated with Ivermectin and fourthly the apology of the House to Members, Mr Mgr Lubomír Volný and Mr. Marian Bojka. Now, I'm going to go into more detail on these points. Today I learned that the Prime Minister was very happy to welcome a delivery of 20,000 doses of Ivermectin, I believe, to svatý Anna, when he himself described this drug as dysfunctional 14 days ago and when he has ignored the information of Members of Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojek about its effectiveness in the fight against COVID-19 for several months. So I wonder how many Czech Army aircraft or government squadron aircraft have been sent to India, where this drug can be obtained after tons, when these aircraft will bring this drug or tons of these drugs to the Czech Republic and how it is arranged to distribute them to all hospitals that care for covido patients, and how it is arranged to distribute them to pharmacies so that ordinary citizens can buy them. Because I have a message here - again it does not say Lubomír Volný, says Czech Society of Anesthesiology, Resuscitation and Intensive Medicine ČLS JEP. It says here that the use of the experimental Bamlanivimab in patients of the Czech Republic is allowed on the basis of an extraordinary temporary decision by the Ministry of Health and to permit the distribution, supply and use of this unregistered medicinal product was used § 8 para. 6 of Law No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and Amendments to Some Related Acts. So this government can decide at any time - or the Ministry of Health even in this way - to legalize Ivermectin, and it can decide for a few minutes that we will create an air bridge between the Czech Republic and any Asian country, India or Bangladesh, where this medicine is used in tons, and its price, if you want to buy it in an Internet pharmacy, is 1.50 per pill and transport, that is, the Czech Republic should be able to buy tons and tons and tons of it and tons of it for about 15 cents per pill. [[Cow's fingers]] [[Once again, she's snapping her fingers.]] So I would like to know what the government has done besides the media gesture that Mr Hamáček and the Prime Minister are trying to take credit for the fact that there is an Ivermectin in the Czech Republic at all, except that they have imported 20,000 pieces and are trying to sell it in the media. I wonder if there's a real plan here, a real plan to help this republic. I propose to include this point as the first item in today's meeting. There is nothing more important, some gardening laws, and - don't be mad at me - even compensations are basically nothing compared to the fact that at least 80 percent of the 20,000 victims of the covid died in vain here. Any negligence on this House of Deputies is killing, and any negligence on this House of Deputies will result in more dead, so I beg you to support this proposal regardless of your political thinking, if there is at least a little normal humanity left in you. The second point is the end of emergency. I very much appreciate the fact that Mr Okamura is watching my Facebook page, and he has again adopted - I will not say stole or copied, although so it is - my proposal to end the emergency situation that I published there last night. I thank him for it, it's, in fact, nice to be copied, but someone always has to be first. This is because the prophylactic effects of Ivermectin are 100%, according to all studies. This means that people who used prophylactically, that is, preventively, Ivermectin, did not get sick, and as far as therapeutic effects are concerned, there is 70 to 80 percent effectiveness in all categories of disease. There is no reason to murder this Republic with any emergency situation, there is no reason to hold the owner of this Republic in prison at district level, there is no reason for martial law that the Army of the Czech Republic should be used for the first time in history, for the first time in its history, as a repressive agent against the majority population. There is no reason to do this, because we have a cure, and this government can deliver tons and tons and tons of it to distribution within a few days - if it wants to. Third point: setting up a commission of inquiry to determine the reasons for the death of patients treated with Ivermectin. It may seem to you that this is the opposite of what I have been promoting here all along, but I have experienced contact with an undetermined person at an undetermined time, whose gender, age or appearance I will never publish, nor in the complaint, but this person has informed me of how many times I had sushi for dinner in the last week, informed me of what is in my apartment between the living room and the bedroom, informed me about the last three security numbers on my credit card, and also returned my MP's chip card that was supposed to be in my wallet. And this person said there was going to be an action to discredit Ivermectin, because it exists here -- she didn't tell me that anymore, that's my lead I'm going to get to -- there's supposed to be an event with doctors and paramedics involved in discrediting Ivermectin. Personally, based on the fact that the person in question really knew a lot about me personally, I assume it will be an event run by the covideo mafia that makes hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of billions of crowns in this republic. They do not want to use companies whose capital is 30 crowns or maybe 2,000, they want to impose on people ineffective medicines for 300 million crowns or ineffective medicines for 50,000 crowns a single dose. The Mafia, it's the proliferation of organized crime into state files, and I think exactly this is the situation and the stage and the moment we're in. Organized crime, connected to the covid business, has grown into the structures of this state. He has grown into government, into security structures, into this parliament as well. And it needs to be done. In my opinion, the provocative death of patients who will be treated with Ivermectin and will be awarded as a victim of this drug in order to reduce its credibility, and so that the drug that is already contracted can be used, paid, distributed, is on its way, whether it is Bamlanivimab for CZK 300 million, or the other drug, which I can now not remember, where one dosage should be for CZK 50,000. [[15.00 hours]] Therefore, as the third point today after the second point, which is the End of the Emergency, I would like to include the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the reasons for the deaths of patients treated with Ivermectin, where there should be leading doctors, former police officers and soldiers from this House, so as to preserve at least the rest of the trust that the public has in this House, and to prohibit any manipulation of the bodies of patients who die after the use of Ivermectin until the Commission has done its work. Fourth point, I'll get to that in a minute. I'd like to get back to that Bamlanivimab. It should be of particular interest to the pirát, I think, because they are the new force within the political structure of the Czech Republic, they have their resources, they do not steal their own party money, I recognize it, they do not steal it and use it for the benefit of their party and for the benefit of the future of their party, so here I am charging you, please, for your struggle with the government movement ANO, with which you will certainly never go into coalition, because the medicine Bamlanivimab, not according to Lubomír Volný, but I will repeat it, according to Czech society anesthesiology, resuscitation and intensive medicine, the treatment of Bamlanivimab is currently experimental treatment without sufficient evidence obtained by methods of medicine based on evidence, and cannot be considered as part of proper professional care in the treatment of patients with COVID-19. I'll repeat that to all my colleagues. Treatment with Bamlanivimab is currently experimental treatment without sufficient evidence obtained by evidence-based medical methods and cannot be considered as part of it, cannot be considered as part of appropriate professional care in the treatment of patients with COVID-19. The Prime Minister here is selling us an experimental pipe for $300 million. This medicine - based on the current state of professional knowledge, we consider the administration of Bamlanivimab to be potentially beneficial in patients with the following attributes: the clinical condition of the patient is evaluated as light, not requiring hospitalization or treatment of oxygen. To do it again. The Prime Minister bought a cure for CZK 300 million, which can only be used in a patient whose condition is evaluated as light, that is, these are hundreds of thousands, today millions of people who are lying at home, having chamomile tea, their condition does not require hospitalization or treatment of oxygen. I ask my colleagues, doctors, lawyers, police officers to verify this information, and I am happy to provide them with resources - all of them, including those from the opposition, including those who claim to watch Prime Minister Babiš and do not plan to jump into bed with him in the next government. I'm not gonna read the rest of it to you anymore because -- hooray, yes, there's been a hurrah -- I'm just not gonna read the rest of it to you because you can read it yourself. The most important information was heard. Whoever called it a hooray, I recommend that he slap himself - and I go back to what was said here that government measures are not logical. They have logic. Government measures have simple logic: the worse, the better. Government measures have logic. There's always something that's not gonna work out, something that's gonna make people sicker, something that's gonna cause more dead, and it's always gonna come up with something, some government measure that's gonna piss people off because another Balda is made here, another Breivik is made here. It's here waiting for someone to go crazy, to just snap in someone's balls and do something violent, which I'm asking the public not to, because that's part of the plan. We're supposed to get used to soldiers in the streets because that's pre-preparation for hard martial law and hard dictatorship. Therefore, my fellow Members, these measures do not make sense because they do not make sense. Those measures aren't supposed to help. These measures are supposed to make the situation worse and kill. As the fourth item in today's programme, I propose an apology to the Chamber of Deputies to Members of the Mgr Lubomír Volný and MP Marian Bojka. We, together with the millions of people who support us, have managed to break through the barrier of government silence and have been able to get the most effective treatment known to mankind today against the covid to the Czech Republic. You laughed at us, you called us conspiracy theorists, and you insulted us. We deserve that apology. I propose this as the fourth point of today's negotiations. The next thing we know, we're gonna keep going, and we're gonna talk about all these senseless government measures on the bones of a first-rater. And the other ones we're gonna take to the squad are the drapes and the respirators you're now voluntarily killing yourself with. In some Swedish cities, they banned the use of any protective equipment because, based on Cancer Discovery's studies, they received information that long-term wearing of these so-called protective equipment causes accelerated cancer, cancer growth, lung cancer, and a lot of other diseases. And just as we have forced the government to deliver at least the first dose of Ivermectin to the Czech Republic, we will force it to send the planes to India or Bangladesh or somewhere. That's a political order. Millions of people in this country will learn about this information, and I will press you, to you, Members who hold the government under your throat, to demand it, and it will be your responsibility to bring those drugs to our home to save lives so that people can buy them and use them preventively. The next point we're going to prove to you is that while we're protecting our health and protecting your health by not using masks and respirators, you're really hurting yourself by wearing them. Please be open to information not only from opponent politicians, but from people who are educated in the field, they are pneumologists, they are doctors, and they publish information that clearly warns you that you are here systematically suffocating, inhaling products of your own metabolism, inhaling back multiple bacteria, inhaling back multiple viruses, then spreading them, and I'm quite interested in which one of you, colleagues and colleagues, has a box for hazardous waste management at home. Raise your hand, sign up, who has a box at home to dispose of the dangerous medical waste that the drape or respirator used is? Then what are you doing with him? I can't see a single hand. You gonna throw him in the trash? So your neighbor or your child, your neighbor, your neighbor, when she goes out to take out the trash, you're actually gonna create a contaminated environment of three, four cubic meters around that dumpster. That baby might get sick because of you! What about seniors who honestly wear a new respirator every day and throw the old one in the trash? What happens to them if they go to the trash can toss something else? Doesn't he create a cubic meter of contaminated environment? Doesn't he turn his own apartment into a biological bomb? This is all information you can find out. And it's your duty exactly according to the promise made by our new colleague here. [[15.10 hours]] So I'm begging you to support all four points. Point 1 - and you should want to know that for your constituents too, they won't forgive you, your voters won't forgive you if you vote against it, and I'll tell them - Government report on legalization and distribution of Ivermectin. I beg you to approve this as item number 1 of today's meeting. Point 2, End of emergency condition because the prophylactic and therapeutic effects of Isoprinosin are unnecessary. Point 3, Establishment of a commission of inquiry to determine the reasons for the death of patients treated with Ivermectin. I'm warning you, colleagues. If the patients who used Ivermectin start to die and a media storm starts to run out of it, the blood will be on your hands again if you don't approve this committee of inquiry, you won't put your specialists, doctors, former police officers and soldiers into it, and you won't make sure people know what those people died of. And if there's a media circus unleashing against a cure for the crown of 50, I'll tell your voters, once again, that you didn't want to know. Well, four, you should apologize to us, that's ordinary human decency, but I don't bet much on that in the House anymore, but you can still try. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u33	Thank you. Next up, the President of the Válek is registered with priority rights. Mr. Volný reminded me by his speech that I forgot to call on him to apply mouth and nose protection in accordance with government measures at the beginning. The same applies to fellow Member Bojek. So, gentlemen, I urge you to put on a drape, or a respirator, indoors. I don't see that you're interested in doing this, so I'm giving you a reminder on the tape screen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Válek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u34	All I'm gonna do is read here so the information is complex, because we really need to trust the experts. Interdisciplinary opinion, registration number CSArim 16/2021, use of Ivermectin in patients with COVID-19. Signed: Czech Society of Anesthesiology, Resuscitation and Intensive Medicine of the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, Czech Society of Intensive Medicine, Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyna - they are the Bureau of the Society. Society of Infectious Medicine Czech Medical Society, Pneumological and Physiological Society of Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně and Association of Practical Physicians. The Committees of these companies say: In the context of the presence of information in the public space on the possible beneficial effect of a medicinal product containing the active substance ivermectin, hereinafter Ivermectin, on the clinical course of patients with COVID-19 disease, the above-mentioned professional companies formulate the following opinion. Ivermectin shows an effect on the amount of virus in laboratory conditions, but a dose of up to 100 times the normal dose should be administered to achieve it. Clinical trials with COVID-19 show contradictory results and are criticised for small numbers of patients and methodological errors. The current state of expertise does not allow a clear recommendation to be formulated for its administration. The American Society of Infectious Medicine has opposed the use of Ivermectin outside a controlled scientific study. In its opinion, The National Institutes of Health states that it cannot formulate any recommendations for or against the administration of Ivermectin to COVID-19 and leaves it to the decision of individual doctors and their patients whether or not to use it. Treatment with Ivermectin is present, i. e. at the date of issue of the opinion, the date I read, experimental treatment without any evidence obtained by evidence-based medical methods and cannot be considered as part of appropriate professional care in the treatment of patients with COVID-19. The decision to administer an unregistered medicinal product containing Ivermectin depends on the clinical consideration of the physician. In the provision of health services to individual patients, the treating physician may prescribe or use unregistered medicinal preparations in order to provide optimal health services, according to Czech legislation under the Act on Medicinal Products, in a situation where the medicinal product is not distributed or not in circulation in the Czech Republic, corresponding to the composition or similar therapeutic properties that it is registered, is a product already registered in another State, or is a modern therapy product which is the manufacturer, the holder of the authorisation for the production of the medicinal form in the extent of the corresponding authorisation for the production of the medicinal products assessed by the State Institute for Drug Control, for c) such a method is sufficiently justified by generic knowledge, for d) not a medicinal product containing genetically modified organisms. They are signed by the chairmen of these companies, meaning anesthesiological and intensive medicine, the Society of Infectious Medicine, the Society of physiological and pneumological and the Society of Practical Physicians. So I just wanted you to have information from experts and committees of professional companies, and thank you for hearing this. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u35	Thank you. Mr President, I'm sorry, I didn't give the instructions to disinfect the counter. So if you wash your hands, you're standing there about as much as a fellow Volný. And I'll ask for disinfectant before the lady comes out. [[The table is being cleaned.]] That was a priority right, Mr. Colleague. [[He's speaking to MP Lubomír the Freeman.]] You can't, there are no factual remarks on the agenda, that's the Rules of Procedure, four years. You've already stepped into the program. So, Mrs. Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I have two proposals. Firstly, I propose the elimination of a point which is a House press of 966, it is a low-carbon law No. 165/2000 Coll., and I propose the inclusion of the Government's Information on the Preparation of the Project of the Nuclear Source Dukovany, namely 5. 3:00 p.m. Why did I decide to reclassify this proposal and propose its inclusion? This is because so far - and this has been discussed by colleagues from the Pirate Party and other parties - many points have not been clarified regarding the preparation of the completion of the nuclear source, as well as the economic, financing of the project, the purchase price, etc. But I am very concerned that the government is not acting in accordance with the treaties and is not guarding the security aspects of the construction. I even doubt whether the Ministry of Industry and Trade is fulfilling its obligations, because the government has adopted two prints on this project, which has a security and geopolitical dimension, V 147/2019 and T 4/2020, and in this case the safety conditions for the above construction are approved. At the same time, the government approved the first implementation agreement on cooperation in the construction of a new nuclear source in Dukovany in the Czech Republic and under this Treaty - and I would like to quote, in point 4, namely 4.6a), it says: "EDU II will follow the security requirements, which according to government resolution number" - this - "484/V of 27. 4. 2020 and related documents and supporting documents, were handed over by the Minister of Industry and Trade before signing this contract by letter dated 30 April 2020 and led to the Ministry of Industry and Trade as material D 56/2020.' [[15.20 hours]] At the same time, and I would also like to quote from this agreement, and this is letter 4.6d, as I mentioned here last time, ČEZ and EDU undertake to demonstrate to the State that they have fully incorporated all the security requirements which have been passed on to them by the State through the Minister of Industry and Trade or by the Minister of Delegated Persons. So in the contract concluded by the state, the government of the Czech Republic, there are these two obligations directly that ČEZ EDU has an obligation to incorporate the state's security requirements into the procurement documents, while at the same time ČEZ EDU has an obligation to demonstrate to the State that all the security requirements of the State have been fully incorporated into the procurement documents. Subsequently, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček signed 14. 9. letter, which summarises the opinion of the working group composed of the Ministry of the Interior, Security Information Services, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Cyber Security Office, which clearly shows that out of 17 specific proposals for security guarantees, only 5. It follows clearly that the contract concluded between the State and ČEZ was not fulfilled. We could also talk about the risks related to the use of the Public Procurement Act, in particular Section 29a. We could also talk again about the fact that the procurement documents are set up to favour specific Rosatom. And, of course, what the Foreign Minister has been talking about several times is that not only does it not increase competition, and therefore there will be no pressure on the price, but there is a significant risk that the other candidates will not even participate in this competition. Just because I believe that these and other issues have not yet been clarified, I believe that we cannot continue to discuss the so-called low-carbon law, and the Chamber of Deputies should be aware of the next government procedure, in particular the issues of dealing with security requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u37	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Volný, Mr. Bojka, about seven minutes ago, I urged you to put on your drapes. You're repeatedly violating government measures. For the last time, I invite you to either take protection of your mouth or I will ban you. You're walking around with your colleagues. Today I've heard from the others that we're thinking of stopping sitting here, sitting in half the format, having people who are in risk groups, we're all going to go to our homes across the country. You're increasing the risk of infection. I have colleagues coming to me who don't like the fact that they have to sit close to you. You don't care about everything. [[Responses listed off the microphone.]] So I hereby banish you in accordance with § 19 para. 1 until the end of the sitting day from the Chamber of Deputies. Please leave the O.R.! Thank you. [[A round of applause for the majority of Members in the Chamber. Other reactions listed off the microphone.]] Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that we place paragraph 332, House press 317, Labour Code, on 3 March tomorrow as the second item in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u39	Thank you. On the agenda now, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable ministers, allow me to make a proposal to adjust our agenda this week. I would like to ask you, as the first item in the third reading, that is, as point 1 tomorrow on Wednesday, to discuss the House's press of 984. It's an amendment to the Civil Code, it's a ban on child debt. I think there is a general consensus that this is not a matter that has been discussed or discussed in the third reading for a long time. And I'd like to ask you to stand up for the children as one of the most vulnerable and forbid children's debts. My previous speakers here today pointed out that our environment in an epidemic situation is extremely risky, but I think that, of course, the House must be operational and must be able to approve the very things that help the most vulnerable at the time when it meets, even if there is a pandemic. That is why I join my previous speakers in discussing the situation of single parents and lonely people, and I add a ban on child debts. And all political parties for support, please. Point 1, third reading tomorrow. I think we can do this quickly and it won't block our actions in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u41	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what is more important at this point than worrying about the sick than helping the paramedics than getting through the pandemic. Therefore, I join my precious colleague Kateřina Valachová and support for the inclusion of the single and single points and children's debts. But I ask you to add another bill that has been here for more than a year and which could really help to ease the health system, relaxing beds that are so much needed by health professionals and of course patients. I therefore propose to include House Press 695, item 203, on the long-term infirmary, amendment to the long-term infirmary law, firmly on Tuesday 9. 3. after the proposed solid inclusion of the points, as presented by the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. Just very quickly what's going on. The point is to reduce the period of stay at a hospital, in a hospital, in a hospital as a condition for entitlement to a long-term infirmary from now paying seven days to four, so that a long-term infirmary can be requested by a family member who wants to take care of his seriously ill family member within 15 days, so that he does not have to do so at the time when he or she or she is taking advantage of his relative from the hospital, and that long-term infirms are also entitled to family members who do not live with a sick person, with a patient in one household, but are direct relatives. This bill also deals with a minor modification of paternity leave. Once again, I beg you, and I beg you, to re-negotiate this proposal. I don't think it's controversial that it's not a political issue, but a thing that will help everyone in the family who's sick and, of course, relieves the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u43	Thank you. Now, please, on the agenda of the meeting, Mr Ondráček. Mr Profant will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to ask you, given the development of today and the debate that has just taken place here, which we have spent almost an hour drawing up the agenda for this meeting, a point that we could avoid for the future the daily outputs of Members and Members with priority rights, but my point is that we all have the information so that we can discuss them as we need to. So I would like to propose a point on the information on the vaccination strategy, the available vaccines and their adequacy. If you look, until today or yesterday, 674,000 vaccinations were carried out, of which 431, or less than 431,000 people, citizens, fellow citizens, received the first dose. Of course, it would be good if we could get information from the Minister of Health or from the Government as a whole - what we hear and what goes on social networks, but sometimes some media can also be trusted - whether we already have patients or citizens and fellow citizens who died after vaccination. If so, how many of these people were, or if we have any side effects, and if such side effects were, what was the age composition of citizens who had such side effects and what vaccine they were vaccinated with. Then we should be interested to know whether we will rely only on the European Union in the framework of the vaccination strategy. It has been mentioned here several times, and you know that it has been discussed in the discussion programmes this weekend, but it is a lively topic and it is discussed basically every day. So, question: Will we go our own way as we speak from Sunday, basically the way Hungary went, from yesterday to Slovakia or Austria? If so, what steps will the government, or the Ministry of Health, take? At this point, is it our concern to ensure enough vaccines for our fellow citizens, or are we going to politicize and address here that this vaccine cannot be suitable for our fellow citizens because it comes from an inappropriate territory within this planet, and now I mean the Russian Federation or China? What's more important to us? Policy or protect fellow citizens of the Czech Republic? We are still talking here that vaccination, vaccination could somehow speed up or resolve this difficult situation. I wonder how the Ministry of Health continues to register individual tests, whether self-testing tests or those that are now being used in antigen testing, whether all these tests that are being used today - and we see that they are rolling into this republic - have passed proper registration. And of course, when we talk here - and it was also mentioned by a few of my previous speakers - about the testing, you know that we as Members have succeeded in being able to be tested here by antigen tests like any other citizen. And I'm asking if the fact that we have the option is enough. Yes, my colleague says: Yes, I got tested and I guess I was positive. Yes, but this also brings it. Every week when I come to the Chamber of Deputies, I simply go within my inner conscience, but of course also by having contact with you, although I have already been through the covide, I go to an antigenic test and come up with a negative result. So what we're talking about here is that we have an opportunity as MPs. Aren't we going to make it our duty when we're here in this format? President Stanjura mentioned at least one colleague who was sitting here with us on Friday, from their parliamentary club, which is positive. What conclusions do we draw from this? It is our health, the health of our families, our friends and fellow citizens that we come into contact with. So speaking of us, we mentioned above all - and I am glad that this is the initiative of the KSČM MEP - when we are talking about the Members of the Chamber of Deputies here in the Parliament of the Czech Republic, without which we could not sit. Let's be considerate to them. And if we agree, or if you agree, in those negotiations, that we will end the day at the latest at 19 o'clock, then let's really fill our negotiations or your arguments, because if we act longer, after 21 o'clock and beyond, those citizens must also somehow get home. They also have families, they have their responsibilities, and it's very difficult for them. Let's also appreciate the work and the cooperation with those people that we can't sit here and talk for so long. I already said last week that there are not only tribal employees among the Members of the Chamber, but let's also achieve that those people who are here to take care of our security, and now I think the Police of the Czech Republic and colleagues who are in the lobby and all over the building, they are units of pieces, I won't say the exact number, because I don't know if I would reveal anything within any of their information, but all of them together are here plus minus, say, two dozens, why don't we allow them to test themselves with antigen tests, because we're coming in contact with them, and they're coming in contact with us. Let's find a way out of this. And that is why I propose that the Government be informed about the strategy of vaccination, the available vaccines and their sufficiency. And given that the Minister - I suppose the Minister of Health will do it - has the room to prepare for it, tomorrow as the first point after lunch. And I believe that you, colleagues who are equipped with a priority right, are also able to agree that only one Member with a priority right or one Member with a club's position will be present at the club, and we can also limit our debate to five minutes. My first concern is that we get the information, and then we don't have to waste time here by asking questions that we need to know for the performance of our mandate. Thank you for supporting this proposal and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u45	Thank you. Mr Profant and then Mr Výborný, at this time the last one on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u46	Thank you for the floor, lovely afternoon. My first proposal is to include point 327 of the House press 756, DEPO, for a fixed time on Wednesday 3. 3:30 p.m. The item has already been discussed by the Gesture Committee today. 'Cause I'm afraid it's gonna get stuck here and it's not gonna come to this important point. This point is important because it brings new rules for the provision of cloud services in public administration, and the current incomplete legislative regulation is dangerous, as SACUIB or our intelligence has repeatedly pointed out. That's why, fellow Members, please, we're gonna have to reschedule this, we're gonna have it done in less than an hour. We did it on the committee today, it's gonna be a little bit shorter in plenary, so I really don't think it's a big deal. My second proposal goes to the Minister of the Interior here. This concerns the enforcement of government regulations on the movement of persons between counties. Police of the Czech Republic require documentary confirmation, but the Government's regulation clearly states that written confirmation is required, which, of course, also means electronic, while paperwork is purely paper. The police hereby demonstrate the ignorance of the law, namely European regulation 910/2014 eIDAS. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior has both the police and the digitalisation area. Therefore, I would expect it to be the other way around, that the preferred path will be the electronic one where no one has to pass on dirty paper or anything like that. I would even expect that in the 21st century, the government will prepare a modification of the eRousek application to offer this functionality as it is in many other countries. Therefore, I propose to include a new point Explanation of the Minister of the Interior on control practice when crossing the county borders and to include this point as the first point today, unless the Minister of the Interior assures us of the correction right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u47	I'm just gonna stop you, colleague. I've been alerted, not that I know it in my head, but as the committee discussed, then there's a 14-day deadline, and it doesn't end until Friday 5. 3. That means we can't put DEPO on 3. 3. [[Mr. Profant off the mic: Friday's okay?]] Friday, then? 5. 3rd Friday would be fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u48	I'll allow myself to modify my proposal for Friday 5. 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u49	Very good, thank you. President Stanjura has withdrawn his priority right, so the Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u50	Thank you. Dear Member, through the President, it is mostly the simplest explanation that is true and it is not worth looking for any speculation or complexity or ignorance of the law. The problem is that the police have two things to solve. They need to figure out how to find out that this guy is proving himself in accordance with a government order, and at the same time they need to ensure the security of the police officer. That is, if health care professionals recommend an ideal distance of 1.5 metres without protective clothing or some highly specialised equipment, the paper confirmation can be read on those 1.5 metres. If someone's hunting something from their cell phone in PDF, it's not possible anymore, and here you need to take the phone into your hand and the contact is just tighter. That means it's the police's response. We're dealing with it. Mr. Police President has a job to do. But if you want an honest answer as to why that is, it is a concern about the health of the officers who intervene, and daily those contacts are tens, hundreds, so the police wanted to be more careful and, in line with the hygiene recommendations, demanded a paper confirmation that is, and we probably agree, more readable on the A4 than the mobile phone display. I understand, I understand the outrage on Twitter, I'm sorry about that, but it really isn't the ignorance of the law, it was an effort to quickly resolve it and protect those cops. But of course, we have to follow the diction of the law, so the police will have to find a solution that will allow the application of electronic form while ensuring the security of police officers on site.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u51	Thank you. The Member has the floor Výborný on the agenda, at the moment the last one to be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Government, colleagues, colleagues, I will be brief. I have three short proposals for a solid three-point assignment. Paradoxically, it's all government points that two basically can't put up with delay, or there's a danger of delay, and one that's related to the covid situation. All three have a positive government position, so I think it could be completely smooth. The first point concerns the House's press, 837, which is paragraph 238 of the current agenda. This is a proposal from Members Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Petr Dolínek and others on the amendment to the so-called driving law - to shorten it, it is the House press 837. The draft was created within the working group of driving schools at the Ministry of Transport. Technically, it solves some of the most pressing problems of driving and at the same time - and I think that it is important - some of the provisions of the amendment, such as reducing the number of corrective examinations or extending the time limit for the correction tests, can significantly influence both the preparation of applicants and the current problems of non-compliance with deadlines in connection with the problems that COVID-19 is causing. So even this could have practical implications. As I say, a simple technical amendment proposed in the procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to propose an assignment for Wednesday, March 10. The program includes the first reading, i.e. March 10, afternoon as the first point of the afternoon meeting. And then two points related to the Industrial Property Office. We are in a situation where there is really a delay and it would also be good to do so quickly, without any long discussion, to accept these two minor adjustments. This is House printing number 989, it is point 52 - amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Designation of the Country of Origin and so on. Once again, the House press is 989. At that, the subsequent House press 973, item 319, which is a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent to the Czech Republic's proposal for access to the Geneva Act of Lisbon on Designation of Origin and Geographical Indications, print 973. It is from the Industrial Property Office workshop and the aim of both designs is to enable the Czech Republic to ensure the continuation of international protection of designations of origin for geographical indications for traditional Czech products such as Budějovice beer, Pardubický perník, Žatecký hop, Třeboňský carp, Karlovarský wafers etc. The point is that if we do not approve of this, the international protection of those Czech labels that have been achieved will cease in all the Member States of the Lisbon Agreement. If I make this very short, so that I do not prolong it, so that it is only a technical connection to the international agreement and, on the one hand, an amendment to the related law. I'm also asking for an assignment. And now it's important. Point 52, House Press 989, on Wednesday 10 March 2021 afternoon as the second point of the afternoon meeting during the first reading. It is once again proposed by the Government under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. And the agreement or accession to the Lisbon Agreement and the Geneva Act, please include it as the first item on Thursday, March 11, following a block of written interventions. On Thursday it is standard to discuss international agreements and agreements, so I would like to include or propose inclusion on Thursday 11 March following the block of written intercessions as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u53	Thank you. And since no one is on the agenda anymore, I have called my colleagues from the lobby and we have to deal with the individual proposals as they were. There weren't many, so I hope we can do it without any more confusion. He was the very first to speak with priority rights... So, first of all, of course, we're going to have to deal with the Gremal proposal. I will ask for peace in the hall and we will vote on the proposal that I made from political grémia, with one vote. No, no, no. [[There are voices from the diaper.]] So there's a proposal for us to vote gradually. President Stanjura proposes that we vote individually. First, to include the new point that was presented in connection with the announcement of the state of legislative emergency, that is the press 1171 - the crisis law, the new one. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[The confusion from the diaper.]] It's just a point classification. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered is 105, for 59, against 32. The motion was accepted. Next: inclusion in the News block, suggestions. First, the appeal against the decision of the mandate and immunity committee pursuant to § 16 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, this is the appeal of Mr Lubomír Volný. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of putting them on the agenda? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 104 Members registered, for 101, against no one. Motion accepted. It is also a proposal to include a new item in the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the inclusion of Members of Parliament's staff in critical infrastructure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered is 102, for 77, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[15.50 hours]] Furthermore, there is a proposal for a solid inclusion of a point, paragraph 375, House document 1782, Rules of Management of Members' Clubs for 2021, and paragraph 468, House document 7528, Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources and its implementation at national level, to include these two points in succession on Wednesday, March 3, at 14.30 as the first two points. There is a request for two votes. First, the Rules of Management of Political Clubs, paragraph 375, as the first point on Wednesday 3 March afternoon. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 104 Members signed in, for 100, against no one, the proposal was adopted. Now the inclusion of paragraph 468, document 7528, is the Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources, so that it is the second point on Wednesday 3. 3. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, there are 102 Members, for 86, against no one, the proposal has been adopted. It is also from Gremia - to include point 2, House press 1111/2, which is a crisis law rejected by the Senate, it is returned to the Senate on Tuesday - pardon? On Tuesday, March 9th, the first point. And Mr. Stanjura with priority rights. I'm sorry, I turned it off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u54	I understand that President Faltýnek is proposing that we vote in full next Tuesday? I say we're against it, it doesn't matter which law is proposed. It's a rejected law, so it's a 101 vote. Just so we know what we're going to vote on. We're gonna vote on whether we're all gonna be here on Tuesday in full or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u55	We all know what we're voting on. It's a bill returned to the Senate on Tuesday, March 9th, as the first point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 104, for 53, against 38, the proposal was adopted. Another proposal of grémia, changing the order of points in the first reading block. First of all, paragraph 83, which is press 1044, a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Civil Card Act, to include paragraph 41, which is the Government Bill on Civil Cards, press 1043. Initiating vote. Who's up for point 83 for point 41? Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered 103, for 66, against no one, the proposal was adopted. Furthermore, it is a proposal for us to include paragraph 107, press 1163, the Act on the Electronisation of Health, and paragraph 108, House printing 1164, a government proposal amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Electronisation of Health, as a third and fourth point in the block of first reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered is 104, for 90, against no one, the proposal was accepted. We've dealt with all the proposals from the Gremium. I have also stated that the Pardubice Region has withdrawn its proposal, there is no need to vote on this. And now Vice-President Okamura proposes, in the regime § 109m, the inclusion of a new item motion for immediate cancellation of the emergency situation, i.e. its inclusion in the meeting first. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered is 104, for 15, against 35, the proposal was not adopted. The proposal is identical to Mr Lubomír Volný's proposal, which has already been voted on. President Jurečka proposes that we take point 467, House document 7332, concerning the Bečva Commission of Investigation - can I put it this way? To place this point first, alternatively, tomorrow Wednesday at 17.00 is the first proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, registered as 104, for 51, against 1, the proposal was not adopted. The alternative proposal was Friday 5. 3. as the first item in the program. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered is 104, for 50, against 1, and this proposal has not been adopted either. Vice-President Feri proposes the inclusion of a new item in the Government's information on new measures. Therefore, first of all, the inclusion of a new item in the agenda. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of including the Government's Information Point on the Government's New Measures? Who's against it? Voting number 14, registered is 104, for 52, the proposal has not been accepted. We will therefore not vote on solid inclusion. President Chvojka suggested that we put press 1152 on crisis management as the first item today. Isn't that right? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered is 103, for 71, against 14, the proposal was adopted. Furthermore, President Chvojka suggested that we put the press 1171 firmly at 17.00 today. Initiating vote. Who's in? It's a so-called duct tape. No? Sorry, sick leave, sorry. Who's against it? Voting number 16, registered is 103, for 83, against 14, the proposal was adopted. In addition, President Chvojka suggests that we include press 1091 for item 7, print 904, and press 961 for this item concerning nursery, if I may say so. Now we have point 7, print 904, and for this point let print 1091 be included within the block and then print 961. Yes, a change in order, not a firm classification, but a change in order. For point 7, print 1091 will come. Please, what's the point number? Point 27. Point 7 goes to point 27, and then point 27 becomes the eighth point, point 18 will be inserted. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17, registered is 103, for 71, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[16.00 hours]] President Rakušan suggested that we place paragraph 283, press 1006, on singles and singles, today firmly at 18 o'clock. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered is 103, for 50, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Alternatively, President Rakušan proposed an appointment tomorrow at 6:00 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 19, registered is 103, for 52, against no one. The motion was accepted. President Bartošek's proposal to include paragraph 326, which is press 966, supported sources of energy, so-called Dukovany, at the end of the third reading block. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 20, registered is 104, for 36, versus 16. The motion was not accepted. Mr Munzar suggested that we include the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, paragraph 303, press 1126, on Wednesday afternoon after the already fixed points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered is 104, for 96, against no one. The motion was accepted. Then there is the proposal by Mr Volný to include a new item today in the Government Report on the legalization of Ivermectin and its distribution. So first of all, we're going to add a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, registered is 104, for 19, versus 10. The motion was not accepted. Then there was a proposal for an immediate end to the emergency situation that we have now voted on. Then there was a proposal to set up an investigation committee to kill patients treated with Ivermectin. I draw attention here to the fact that one fifth of Members are needed for such a proposal, which means that the proposal is unvoting. The last proposal was the inclusion of a new item entitled Apology of the House of Members Mgr Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojka. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 23, registered is 104, for 2, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Langšádlová proposes the inclusion of the Government Information on the Dukovany project, a new item on the agenda. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, registered is 104, for 37, versus 45. The motion was not accepted. The Member proposes to further eliminate paragraph 326, which means the third reading press, which is sometimes called lex Dukovany. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of shutting down this press? Who's against it? Voting number 25, registered is 104, for 34, versus 52. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová proposes paragraph 332, print 317, amendment to the Labour Code, to include the second point tomorrow in third readings. [[This is Mrs Jaroš.]] To the vote? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u56	Thank you. I'd like to report in the minutes that I voted against in vote number 23, and I've got a pro on drugs. But I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u57	Thank you. For screen recording only. I'll do it again. Paragraph 332, print 317, amendment to the Labour Code, tomorrow as a second point in third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered is 104, for 16, versus 16. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Valachová proposes that we include the 984 press on the prohibition of child debts as the first one within the third reading block. Mr. Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u58	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will believe that you have merely crossed the vote, but I have suggested a point that was the Government's information on new measures. The point was not: the government is chaotic, the government is doing badly. That was government information. Even Members - for example, Mrs Taťána Malá, through Mr President, addressed the question that these measures were illogical and resolved them successfully. There are other cases in Brno. Those cases are next. We just wanted the Home Secretary here to step up and say, yes, you can point it to your phone, you can't point it to your phone. Yes, if you have a car in the shop, you can, you can't. And so on and so on and so forth. The Minister of the Interior himself said that he would be here at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, and the members of the ČSSD party abstained in the vote. I don't know. You really think people support that? [[ČSSD MPs oppose that they were in favour.]] Were they in? Well, then I'm gonna have to take this dump. But in that case, I apologize if I have - I have seen the Prime Minister as he points out. [[He's suggesting a gesture.]] But members of the YES movement, do you really believe that everyone knows what the measures are, that there are simply no questions? That was government information. [[A Member of Feranec opposes.]] They know, they know, Mr Feranč, through Mr President. I'll send you the e-mails, I'll send it to you. Answer it really. Government information. Isn't it even worth explaining to these people? You're making a fool of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u59	Thank you for not yelling at each other. We are now at the moment when we are voting for the agenda. Mrs Valachová's proposal to ban child debts. First point in third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 104 Members registered, for 37, against no one. The motion was not accepted. [[16.10 hours]] Mrs GajdůGajdůšková suggested that we include paragraph 203, press 695, on Tuesday 9. 3. after fixed points, so far fixed points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 28, 104 entered, for 45, against is 1, the proposal was not accepted. Mr Ondráček proposes the inclusion of a new item entitled Information of the Government on the vaccination strategy, if I may read it this way. There was still a letter I didn't have time to mark. Government information on the vaccination strategy, including a new point in this meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 29, 104 entered, for 53, against no one, proposal accepted. For the next... moment, now we have to vote for that firm assignment. The Member suggested it, he suggested it tomorrow as the first item in the afternoon. There are already three points there at the moment. [[Unintelligible comments from the diaper. There is noise in the courtroom, some Members standing.]] That depends on the honourable Member. I always ask if it lasts or if it can be... Mr. from the bench nods that it may be after the points already included, so the fourth point will be tomorrow. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 30, registered 104, for 56, against no one, proposal accepted. Mr Profant proposes paragraph 327, print 756, which is in short, when I say DEPO, to place firmly on Friday at 11.30 in the third reading. Initiating vote. Who's up for a solid DEPO at 11:30 Friday? Who's against it? Voting order number 31, 104 entered, for 54, against no one, the proposal was accepted. First of all, Mr Výborný had a proposal for printing 837, which is the amendment to driving schools under the regime of Section 90, to put it firmly on Wednesday 10. 3:00 p.m. as the first point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 32, registered 104, for 44, against no one, this proposal was not adopted. Furthermore, Mr Excellent proposed paragraph 52, print 989, protection of the designation of the country of origin, paragraph 52, print 989, it is an amendment to the law to protect the designation of the country of origin from the Pen of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, if I am not mistaken to include it on Wednesday 10. 3. as a second point, given that he failed the first proposal... Passed? Didn't pass? It didn't pass, so now it would be the first point on Wednesday 10. 3. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 33, registered 104, for 42, against no one, this proposal was not adopted. We will now vote on the second proposal, which, however, is closely related to it, that is paragraph 319, print 973, which would be to give consent to the Geneva Pact. This also applies to the designation of the country of origin. The proposal was to put it on 10. 3. If none of Mr Výborný's proposals were passed, that would be the first point. No, he suggested it on Thursday, 11. 3. after written interpelations as the first point. So point 319 on Thursday 11. 3. First after written interpelations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 34, registered 104, for 51, against no one, the proposal was rejected. That is all I have to say about the individual proposals for the show. Mr. Válek Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u60	I'm terribly sorry, but if there was any chance that Minister Hamáček's reply would appear at today's meeting, I would very much welcome it. Consider it if the proposal reappears. It's probably clear to all of you who are not from Prague, how you get home and what kind of confirmation you should have, whether an MP card or... You know it, everybody - I don't know it. I do not know, because some fellow Members were stopped by police officers and asked for confirmation in writing. Well, it doesn't matter that we're shaking our heads, but that's the way it is. That means, since we don't think about citizens anymore, at least from the instinct of self-preservation, we should know both the answers. And I would ask all of you to consider whether, in some way, we would not have gotten it on the agenda in a way that I do not see at all as conflicting - it is really a practical thing, extremely useful for a number of people - somehow. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, let's think about it if it shows up, see if you can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u61	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister is registered. And could I appeal that we agree to the programme, the last vote, the programme as a whole? [[General agreement.]] In the wording of those proposals that we have adopted or not adopted, I will now vote on the agenda for this meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. [[The restlessness and noise in the Chamber persists.]] Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 35, registered 103, for 73, against 20, the proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to the draft agenda for this meeting. With priority rights, the Minister of the Interior and I hand over the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u62	Good afternoon, honourable Members. The Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamáček has the floor. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u63	Thank you. I really don't think we need a special point. If there are questions about how Members get to work and home, this will, of course, provide for an exception to the exercise of the function of constitutional officer. This means that someone is a constitutional official, showing a Member's identity card. That's right in the first point of the second paragraph. So MEPs on their way to work, home or in the performance of their mandate have an exception and are proving themselves with a Member's card. As far as electronic and paper documents are concerned, I have already mentioned this in my reply to Mr Feri's opinion, and in the meantime the police have confirmed it on their official Twitter account. That means they accept both paper and electronic confirmations. I'm just pointing out that paperwork is more hygienic. I didn't notice any further questions. A colleague of mine, Feri, asked about the car and the tow truck. As far as I know, the tow service works, that is, the tow service can be called, the vehicle can be driven to the service and the vast majority of the services, of course, also offer the arrival of the vehicle after repair. That's the three questions I've noted here, and I believe I've answered them 100%.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u64	Thank you, Minister Hamáček. With priority rights, the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr President, before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a difficult agenda for the meeting, so that those who wish to speak can do so in a dignified environment. If you're discussing other matters, please be in the foyer. Just a moment, Mr. Chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u65	Thank you for the floor. I have a question for the Home Secretary. It's not how I get home, I'm interested in citizens. I read yesterday that perhaps the government wants to deploy up to 30,000 men and women for control, 23,000 police officers, 5,000 soldiers, now I don't know how many customs officers. So I'd like to get information every morning about how many checks have been done and what it's for, because, for example, in our district, in our county yesterday, those who went to work in Ostrava from Frýdek-Místek, so there were hourly queues, because active police stopped one car after another. And now I can go on. Let us not discuss transport of 105 Members back and forth, please. Let's solve a problem where we have hundreds of thousands of employees who don't work in their district, and the government has made up the idea that they'll be checked every day. Here was a question as to whether the certificate could be for 14 days or for each day separately. And I didn't hear the answer. What if someone's going on a business trip? He's at the garage, he's got it for that day, and now they're gonna call him from the firm, and the next day, he's gonna go to another company, another customer, another county, he's not coming home, and he's got a lot of specific stuff. So I'm wondering how many of these checks are going to be done and what it's for. 30,000 men and 5,000 soldiers, I find it incredible. If we want to use the military, let's use it in hospitals, not to control our citizens. Don't be mad at me, kind government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u66	Thank you. The Home Secretary is still applying with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u67	Mr. President Stanjur, with all due respect, this is a matter on the infoline of the Ministry of the Interior, and not a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. If we all come up with a question about the Home Secretary, what are we supposed to do if someone sends me somewhere to fix something and I go back, we'll be here until tonight, and I don't know if that's the point of the House of Deputies' meeting. But if most people want it, of course we'll sit here and make up hypothetical scenarios. We put questions and answers on the ministerial pages, where the most basic situations of life are described. I'm sure each of us will come up with ten more that can happen, and we'll spend a pleasant afternoon figuring out how the police will respond to them. You asked why the cops weren't in the hospital. Those cops aren't in the hospital - or the soldiers or the others - they're not exactly there, and they're standing on those streets so the hospitals don't get crowded. Because unfortunately, not everyone is following these measures, and I want to thank the vast majority of our fellow citizens again, because both yesterday and today, without incidents, everything is fine. Unfortunately, just like we have our Šeberák, just like we have our own - I'm not going to name any more restaurants - so there are citizens who are just having fun by inventing different obsessives and so on, even a renowned diary Idnes called it Pasti on Hamáčkův trolls, how they make up how to trick the police - how to put it politely. The measures simply need to be controlled, and you might be surprised, Mr President, by means of the President: I have a swamped e-mail where these people are asking: The patrol has not yet been here, what the police are doing, where the police are, how are you not checking? Well, it's the taste of each of us. Someone's upset with you cops, somebody's okay, but if we take such drastic measures, and we're doing this so that the hospital doesn't go over, then we have to control them, too. I understand you're upset, someone's upset that they can't see the cops, but it's all in all going to get even. The key is, and I want to stress this again and thank you once again, the vast majority of people are following it, and I have the hope that these measures can work and maybe do what we all want. I feel like now we can practice here who's doing what, but the goal is the same - the goal is to take that enormous burden off our paramedics. And we can have a debate here, and a legitimate debate, if what that government did leads in that direction. And if the opposition feels that it doesn't, then it can introduce another solution, it can say, "No, we don't want it from the counties, we wouldn't have closed the Republic in our lives, we have another solution." Okay, bring him in! And we can talk about whether it's better, more efficient, more enforceable, that's a legitimate debate. But to construct life situations here and train the Home Secretary from what happens when I go to the cabin, what happens when - that's what the infoline of the Home Office is about, and that's what our website is about. And believe me, those cops are gonna make a deal with people in the finals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u68	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will come back to the question raised by President Válek here and to the reply of the Minister of the Interior. And on that point, I want to show that it's really not that clear for us either, and so it's not even for the citizens. Maybe I just don't get it, so I'm sure the Minister can explain it to me. Let us imagine that we Members do not want any privileges, but we want to do our job and we want to act in accordance with government regulations. You said a Member's ID was enough. But I read here in point 4, where the interpretation of the exceptions under point 2.1, which is an exception for constitutional officials: "The obligation to demonstrate the justification of using this exemption by a written confirmation by an employer or by an authority in respect of which the obligation of a public official or constitutional agent is exercised, or, where appropriate, by a contract of employment or by an employee or similar document, if they contain the necessary information." And now it's moving on. Does that mean the necessary data, such as that there is my identification, or the necessary data, which proves what the beginning assumes, that is, the confirmation of the employer who is running out to prove the justification of this exception? And is my I.D. paid by a Member, even though I'm going from another county to my MP's office, or do I have to make an honest statement? And I'm just pointing at this, and it's not petty when you look at it like that, if it's petty, I get every day, maybe you don't, I'm wondering, dozens of questions from citizens, what goes for them, what doesn't apply to them, how do they interpret it, where they can, where they can't go. And I'm trying to show here that even many of us don't understand exactly the dictum of these regulations. So do we need proof of any capacity as a constitutional official, or do we need an honest statement, or do we need a written confirmation from the authority that we need to carry out our activities in Prague, Brno, Ostrava? What is it, anyway? And as unclear as we are, that's what the citizens have. That's why we need to talk about it and make it clear. I think we can discuss some laws here that nobody cares about, no one gets any good, but these are the things that citizens do every day. So we should deal with them, focus on them, and the Home Secretary should clarify them here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u70	Thank you. I understand that colleagues have priority rights, so I'm going to grant them, but we still have an approved program and we should get to it. Please. Let's see...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u71	I'd like to ask the Minister to understand me correctly. I don't want to train the Home Secretary, I really don't, we don't get it. The answers and questions are not for us, but for the public. Minister, actually, I don't live in Prague, but where are the districts in Prague? Or isn't there a transfer from the county to the county in Prague? Then ask the Pražan, I ask my colleagues from Prague. Citizens don't understand. Are they city parts? Or aren't they? But no one said it. You say they're not. So Prague is a county. The region is Prague. And at the same time, it's a statutory city. And now we can continue. And those answers aren't for us, and they're not for us to show that we're training you here. We don't get it. I really don't. But we could have had it here, and we could have it here to the public... So I admire the bounty of the members of the government, everything is clear. Like the racing cafeteria, right? Yesterday the government - no, Mr. Ambassador, I know you're a blind supporter of the government. But how is it supposed to work in that state--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u72	Please, Mr President, do not address your colleagues directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u73	- when the government - I didn't address anyone, so I don't need your help. That might bother some, I agree, I'm sorry. [[16.30 hours]] How should the public trust a government that always sits at night - for example, on Monday people who went to work in another district should already have a confirmation and you decided on Friday night. Yes, many employers arranged it this weekend, e-mailed it, signed it, sent it out, but you're fine. You closed the cafeteria yesterday, opened it today. And that's how it is all the time. And every time we ask a question, it's all clear to the members here, they knew they could eat today, even though they couldn't eat in the morning, and maybe tomorrow they couldn't, but they already know it ahead and they don't want to know anything. But I say, those answers are not for you, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, nor for us from the opposition benches, they are for the public, and this confusion is frustrating the achievement of the common goal. I agree that the goal is common. But it can't be that... Then the Vice Prime Minister already has one - he probably picked it up from his prime minister - I don't like to talk from internal negotiations, but it's a difficult situation in the state, the Prime Minister calls a meeting, every judge expects the Prime Minister to come and say: I suggest this, this, this, this, this, what you say. But it doesn't work that way in the Czech Republic. Those who have ministries and thousands of people behind them, apparatuses... We were at a meeting, and the Prime Minister says, "What are you suggesting? Isn't that crazy? It's crazy. And all of this reduces the public's trust. And then we have to have 30,000 men and women on the streets to keep it. The minister said it exactly - I asked for it, he answered it: the vast majority of society keeps it for a year and a day, so let's not talk about irresponsible citizens anymore. But he needs to know there's a point. Now you've closed the Republic for three weeks, and the legitimate question of these people is, what's going to be day 22? If we look in Britain, we've handled this campaign perfectly, so look what Boris Johnson has announced, what's going to happen in advance, what's going to happen after the closing that day that week. We all have it at our disposal, you and we, but nothing happens here. We don't know at all - and these people need to know that if they're honest for three weeks now, they're gonna keep everything that happens. And the government probably doesn't know that, and so neither does the public, and if we want you to give that hope to the public, we're still begging to train someone here. We don't want to train anybody here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u74	Thank you. Mr. Home Secretary. I thought I was gonna get him to introduce a crisis law, but he still wants to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u75	I feel like I've reacted in a matter of fact, except maybe that passage with the squeaking. But I did notice two questions. On the parliamentary pass, I replied that if anyone proves to be a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the police will not be restricted, because this is the function of constitutional officer. And then I recorded a question about the movement in Prague. I clearly said in all conversations and everywhere where we communicated that the capital city of Prague is viewed from this point of view as one village, that means not one district, but as one village, and I assume that there is no one who would be detained by the police when he tried to cross the border between Žižkov and Vinohrady, it simply did not happen and cannot become. Prague is one municipality from the point of view of this regulation. These are all the specific questions I have received and I have answered them all. And what Zbyněk Stanjura said about the UK. Yeah, I'm sure there's a need to offer people hope and a vision of what's going to be day 22, day 23. The Brit did it, but the Brit didn't offer what would be the 23rd day, the lockdown lasted much longer there, it was much more brutal, and, to be honest, more effective. And I'm saying that in a few days, we're just gonna see where the curves are going in those models, and then we're probably gonna be able to tell people what's going to be day 22 and day 23. I really can't say it right now. I can tell what's gonna happen for a few more days. It's gonna go up. And let's hope it breaks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-001-999.u76	Thank you. We will continue, and this is the first item on our approved agenda. That's what it is.
