ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-093-01-001-001.u1	1. National Recovery Plan President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-093-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm not gonna break this meeting's agenda, but I'm making an announcement in advance that in the next meeting where the emergency is to be discussed... [[Mr Ivan Bartoš is speaking to the President. Sorry, sorry.]] I will propose a new point, and that will be the Information of the Government on the completion of the nuclear power plant and the distribution of project documentation. And I demand that the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Prime Minister be present to discuss this point. This is an absolutely crucial matter concerning the security and future of the Czech Republic. I'm calling forward, and I demand that both the Minister of Industry and Prime Minister be present. If they are not present, I advise in advance that this is so crucial for us that we will probably take breaks until the Minister and Prime Minister adjust the programme sufficiently to answer to the Chamber of Deputies. So, Minister, I'm glad you're here, and I hope you'll still be here after 10:30. [[Havlíček]] At the same time, I hope, dear Members, that you will support the inclusion of this new point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-093-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I now want to apologize to President Bartoš, he applied yesterday in writing, wanted to speak before the approval of this 93rd meeting, so I apologize for that, I did not notice that this is the day in advance. Mr President, you would now have the opportunity to speak if you are interested. It's up to you, we have an approved show, and it's the 93rd meeting. I suppose that's the point. [[Member Bartoš answers off the microphone.]] So I can open that point and give you the first word after the introduction, or you can talk right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-093-01-001-001.u4	So it was a bit of a mess, but there was no confusion on our side. I would therefore like to speak on the topic of the National Recovery Plan, which is, if we manage to prepare the plan well, a chance for the Czech Republic. This plan will enable us to draw 180 billion from EU funds effectively and for the benefit of both people and the development of our country in the coming years. We had to call this meeting for this plan, because the debate has so far been at the level of the Chamber of Deputies, but even individual political parties have not been very involved. I think that we should focus to ensure that the programme is well prepared, because he himself is a huge opportunity for our country, which can help us move the Czech Republic forward in the post-covide era, just as it happened in the post-war period thanks to, say, Marshallův's plan. What is an opportunity for our country for its future is a huge commitment for politicians. And only this meeting - and I dare say that this is very sad - should finally open a constructive discussion between government, professional public, self-government, business, non-profit sector, but also between government and political parties. Political parties to the opposition, which represent even more citizens together than some parties to the government. And while the government is about to submit a recovery plan to the European Commission in a month, I regret to say that this discussion - I would like to ask my colleagues in the front row if they could be a little more quiet, thank you. It's just hard to focus on the important things that I wanted to mention. So it's in a month, and there's no discussion at all. And I, according to the information I have from, for example, the tripartite people, and with them, the government is discussing this crucial document, this strategy, to a very small extent. Now, then, to the plan itself. The Czech Republic can draw up to 180 billion from the recovery fund beyond those standard programmes of the multiannual financial framework. This is a huge opportunity to overcome the current crisis, to digitize the state and its economy, and to modernise the economy overall in order to be sustainable, and this is very important, competitive in the 21st century. And the lag of the Czech Republic in competitiveness was shown before covid came to the Czech Republic.
