ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 437/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of state social support benefits and care allowance in connection with emergency situation in the epidemic /house print 1122/ - shortened negotiations Before I let you decide that the situation in which we are discussing this in a state of legislative emergency, thank you to the Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I will ask Mr Marek Novák to do the same. I am opening the debate as to whether the Chamber of Deputies agrees that we should proceed in accordance with Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5, i.e. we will assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are reduced. In an open debate, no one refers to this issue. [[10.10 hours]] I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 437/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the area of state social aid benefits and the contribution to care in connection with emergency conditions in the epidemic, House press 1122, in the shortened negotiations." I've started voting number 94 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 94. Present 101 MP, for 88, against no one. The resolution has been approved. [[Noise in the hall.]] We will therefore proceed to discuss this press in a brief hearing. I repeat, therefore, that this is a government bill amending Act No. 437/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the area of benefits of state social support and the contribution to care in connection with emergency conditions in the epidemic, House press 1122, shortened negotiations. I will ask the House for peace, and once the noise level is reduced, I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, under the authority of the Government, to state the House's press. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a government proposal for a law on certain adjustments in the area of state social support benefits and the contribution to care. Basically, it is a technical insurance policy designed to prevent any negative side effects of the use of an emergency infirmary due to the long-term closure of schools. Let me explain. In contrast to the standard, which is nine or sixteen days, the emergency treatment centre is paid for the entire duration of child care due to school closure. According to the law, it is paid within 30 days of the transfer of the application by the employer to the social security administration. Even with all legal deadlines, a parent may receive the payment of an extraordinary infirmary in the same month as a salary. For the sake of explanation, I would like to give one particular example. For example, the Czech Republic ended at the end of November, the District Administration of Social Security received from the employer or through the employer supporting the infirmary in mid-December, because the law does not set a deadline, the Czech Republic pays it at the beginning of January, in January the salary for December and in December the parent does not receive income, however, he has income higher than usual in January, because he will receive both the infirmary and the salary. In that case, there will be an accumulation of payouts and thus an impact increase in revenue in one month. However, since income has not really increased, only payments have been made, this technical policy needs to be put into force. I will repeat once again that the proposal needs to be seen as purely technical, it is specifically bound to an emergency infirmary, that is, when we actually close schools because of the pandemic and children cannot go to school. This amendment does not entail increased budget costs, the aim is to maintain entitlement to child allowance and housing allowance for parents who had to stop working precisely because of closed schools and had to take care of their child under the age of ten. The proposal is put forward for time reasons in a legislative emergency, and I would like to stress that if this proposal is not approved legislatively by the end of January, this amendment will no longer be relevant. For this reason, honourable Members, I would like to ask you to approve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u3	Thank you to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and we will therefore discuss this point in such a way that the Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1122/1. The Committee rapporteur, Mr Marek Novák, is ready and I will ask for information on the discussion of this proposal in committee and for any amendments to be justified. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 67th meeting of 19 January 2021 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 437/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the area of welfare benefits and care allowance in connection with emergency conditions in the epidemic, House press 1122. After the opening words of Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Kateřina Jirková, Mr Marek Novák's report and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; [[II.]] proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 14.00 at the latest on 22 January 2021; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 437/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the area of welfare benefits and care allowance in connection with emergency conditions in the epidemic, House press 1122; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee's opinion of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is currently happening, and in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, he has made appropriate legislative technical adjustments. I thank you for your attention, and I will ask you, Mr President, then, to sign up in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u5	For the general debate, okay. I am opening the general debate, and because the rapporteur has priority rights, Mrs Pastuchová, who is duly signed up, will be held and the rapporteur is the first in the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u6	If I may, ladies first, I'll ask if you can give the floor now to your colleague Pastuchová and I will give her the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u7	Okay, that's your decision. I have to follow the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Jana Pastuchová in the debate and the rapporteur will be prepared. Please. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, colleague Novák, for choosing me, I appreciate it. Dear colleagues, although this is a government proposal, I fully respect that, because I am part of a government coalition, I also respect the Committee on Social Policy, which I am the Chair of, and the Committee also adopted a positive opinion on this discussion. However, I still have to afford to say something about this proposal. This proposal and we, as the House, are actually going to make civil servants an alibi so they don't have to pay in time. Yesterday we heard when we extended the emergency situation, that if the epidemic situation was better and we didn't get worse, our kids would get into first-degree school. That means that now would be enough if the Minister had instructed him to pay off everything by the end of February, and I think this, the law, is redundant and unfair in some way. And I'll tell you why. This proposal addresses a change of law situation which could affect the approach and activity of the Czech Social Security Administration. Czech Social Security Administration has 30 days for administration. I asked the Social Policy Committee of the Department of Representatives if it would be possible to issue a methodological instruction that would order the administration to be reduced to 10 days. I've been told that I can't, because they're very busy with the Czech administration. Well, folks, that's all the authorities have. At the tax office, at the employment office, too. Just those authorities -- and we all have jobs everywhere, so we're gonna change the law, instead of just changing the methodical order that will adjust the payment period from 30 to 10 days? It seems a little illogical to me, then. [[10.20 hours]] Next thing. We had the same conditions here in the spring months. I didn't hear that was a problem. I don't think any of us do. We also asked the Social Policy Committee if we had any analyses, if anyone could tell us how many applicants it involved, that the dose had accumulated. No answer. Was it tens? So we're gonna change the law for tens! Next thing. I asked if the infirmary was going to subtract or not to count on common diseases. That means I'm gonna be a mommy, and my kid's gonna break his leg. I'm gonna be a single mom, so I'm gonna be home for 16 days. I'll be picking up the infirmary. Yes, even with common diseases, we'll subtract it. It's not just about the people in the infirmary at the time of the coroner's crisis. We'll subtract them all. We'll subtract the infirmary. What about disability? I mean, that's a payback, too. Sickbay's a paycheck. So the state pays compensation for wages, and she doesn't really count on us. What about the self-employed who can receive a similar treatment in the form of a specific subsidy? But the DEA has to subtract it. So here, it also seems a little bit like discrimination. Madam Secretary has told us that there will be no increase in the budget. Again, I haven't seen the analysis of who it might involve. I don't know. None of us know. We demanded it, no one knows. So I, although I have many reservations, and it seems to me that this proposal would probably deserve to be negotiated in a normal regime because I have told you a lot of things that I do not like on this proposal: I really do not like that - and I have a lot of questions from the CFI, because they are fed up with it, too, and I believe, when I look at who will be behind me, yesterday I could not speak because I do not have the right to give priority, I see a fellow Member there, by your means, Mr President, Mrs Olga Richterová, and I believe that she will not be able to reload the amendment here, so that the infirmary at the time of quarantine will increase to 80 per cent. I, as a medic who goes to the ARO as a backup nurse and I see diagnoses where the sick are home at 60 percent, they're really sometimes ugly diagnoses, so I don't know why we should choose one diagnosis that we'd prefer 80 percent. Please think about it. It's unfair to those who are sick. So I have many reservations, yet I have raised my hand in order for this law to be discussed in a short hearing, because I respect that it is a government proposal, I am a coalition member, and I respect the opinion of the Health Committee, which also supported this law to be discussed. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u9	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. The rapporteur, Mr Marek Novák, will now appear, and Mrs Olga Richterová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm more or less signing everything my colleague Pastuchová said. You could say that now she took the wind from my sails and most of the arguments I wanted to talk about, but I knew it, and that's why I liked to give her my word. Anyway, I would really like to point out one thing here, and that is the imbalance between employees and self-employed persons. It's a major problem for me. It is an imbalance, but, of course, at this expense, we cannot harm and leave a group of people in trouble against each other. Anyway, I'm gonna ask the secretary to focus on this and try to solve it. So that's one thing, it's a self-defense. Second thing. We're really in favour of helping people, but we're dealing with a secondary problem here, we're not dealing with a primary here. Primarily, people need to pay off money. The people in the infirmary get the money a month later. And we don't really stop at the fact that they get the money a month later. Do we really care about someone here who lives for that month? I don't think so! All we care about is whether or not they're gonna count their doses and whatnot. Those who don't get paid and depend heavily on it must then borrow for a living. They get into debt traps, they can't pay back. That's what we're talking about! Not about the secondary problem: the primary one. That's more important to me. The last thing about this is actually a technical solution to this problem. My colleague Pastuchová has already outlined that she was trying to communicate to resolve the problem with a methodical instruction. She got some answers. If she made peace with her, she didn't, you heard it yourself. I was trying to make a technical solution that would set the infirmary not to count, or to count, in the calculation of the benefits based on when it was paid, but on when it was due, actually for which month. I received a reply from the Ministry about half an hour ago to a text and I have not studied it yet, so I also asked the Minister to prepare an answer to that question, and I would very much like to hear that answer here at plenary. Anyway, we're really here without any data, we're supposed to decide something we don't know -- who it's gonna bring, how much it's gonna cost, who else is gonna ride it, who's gonna get the benefit claim from this solution, even though it's not logically entitled to it. So I will ask the Minister to be so kind, to answer the questions, and, of course, I respect the committee resolution, and I respect the coalition agreement that I will stick to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u11	I thank the rapporteur for his speech in the general debate. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. First of all, to the core of the proposal, to the core of the fact that the authorities are now unable to pay the infirmary smoothly. That's the core of the problem - the infirmary walks irregularly. When our pirate club and I examined the bill, we came to the conclusion that, in fact, given how benefits are calculated in our country, since income is tested quarterly for benefit purposes, and according to that, the claim is calculated, for example, for an enrollment for a child, it is also considered whether a person is qualified as a worker - that it really is a situation where the state cannot punish people for not being able to administer the big crowd of the nurse's covid. And frankly, it's not so surprising at a low level of digitalization that you just can't handle it. [[10.30 hours]] So, in summary, from January 2021 to September 2021, it seems reasonable to say that the smoothness of the sick person's payment will simply not be guaranteed that it will not be 100%, and that therefore makes sense that this should not be counted against income for the purpose of paying the benefits of state social aid. It was that simple, and I'm actually surprised by the degree of resistance or... [[The MP sighed.]] I will, of course, be happy to answer if this really cannot be dealt with by methodical instructions. It seemed to us that he couldn't. The goal is for families to either not lose what they are entitled to, what, if the infirmary came to them on time, they would normally be entitled, or they would not be reduced, so that they do not receive a lower notice of being treated as non-workers. And again, I'm stressing: people who didn't do anything wrong, they just paid off late. That's all. That's the proposal. And then I will allow myself to focus one more part of your attention on what surprised me with Mrs Pastuchová. Because if we notice, all of us here, the government, the whole country, we've been talking about almost a coronavirus for ten months, a pandemic. All activities, all efforts are aimed at reducing it. Of course, the government prefers to treat the covide, as the payments are set, and so everything is set up to pay for the treatment to be done by medical devices, so there is a restriction on elective care. The whole country simply focuses on this priority. And when we're in this situation, it makes sense to look for positive motivations for people for desirable behavior. I wonder if anyone else has an opinion. But for me, the desirable behavior is when I feel sick, sick, go to the test, and the desirable behavior is, when the test comes out positive, really consistently stay in isolation. And these two desirable behaviors, go to preventive quarantine, get tested and stay home in isolation, we need motivation. Dear colleagues, it is no secret to me that many people simply cannot afford it financially, to be sick, not to go to work, and that they simply do not have the motivation. You always balance the interests of the individual and the interests of the whole in society. And here it is in the interest of the whole, that people, when they feel sick, stay at home in bed or simply at home and carefully wearing a mask when they go shopping. Now what I want to stress. Other countries are well aware of the behavioral aspect. The behavior of us people is to some extent predictable, they're big statistical figures. If we want to motivate a large mass of people to behave socially desirablely, this really means, in order to suppress the pandemic, that action can be taken that is not entirely fair, but makes sense for the whole country. And I would now like to introduce to you three possibilities of such positive motivation, three options to change the unfortunate trend, that there are very few reported contacts with people who are proven to be positive, how to change the fact that in our country today, people who do not have savings, people who have low incomes, the interest of the whole, the not spreading disease, the interest of the individual, cannot somehow move on and continue to work. And the three possibilities I'm offering you are a little bit different, sort of principled paths. One option is Amendment 7286, a proposal called Emergency Nursing. The point is that an insured person under the sickness insurance law, who would be recognised temporarily as unfit for work in the period from 25 January to 30 June 2021, or who was ordered to be isolated or quarantined as a result of COVID-1.9 disease, would be entitled to an exceptional illness. This would be equal to 80 per cent of the daily basis paid by the State. This first principle option, of course, means state costs. I'm not covering that up at all. But it's purely a suggestion to respond to a completely extraordinary situation for the sick. It would mean - I'll tell you about the costs. If you take that we have about 8,000 people positive a day for example of order calculation: half of them are economically active, average earnings of approximately 35,000 crowns, so the cost of purely for people proven to be positive would be just over one billion per month. It's an order estimate for you to know that it's not just tens of millions, it's not, it's not a cover-up. But in terms of the total cost of the pandemic, of how much it costs to lockdown, how much more compensation and so on, it's just good to work with the fact that one billion isn't so much compared to the other costs of our country. The second option is to increase pay compensation at the time of the epidemic. I will add - I hear the Minister of Finance behind me - that is what I said: the cost of people's covid positive, behavioral aspect, that, if more people report as contacts, it is not counted, that is true, but we are still in low units of billions. The way people would really behave would have turned out. That's right. But what I want to stress: we're not talking about tens of billions, definitely not. Second principle option: increasing pay compensation at the time of the epidemic. The point here is that we need to compensate employers so that they do not pay such a possible increase in compensation for wages. So we're putting forward a proposal for the Pirates 7287, which proposes that 80 percent of the compensation granted to the employer be paid again, only until June 2021. So this is an option that is more administratively demanding, it would be a little cheaper for the state and it is simply another principal way to increase sickness temporarily due to the coronavirus and the refund of compensation to employers by the state. And the third option - I'm telling you this, we have the state and the instruments, and we can decide which ways to go - the third option is very brief: a one-off contribution. A one-time allowance for quarantine and isolation. And that one-time contribution, I'm just going to read you the important clause, it should be at an amount that, of course, would not motivate, was not excessive, we propose to come out of the amount of CZK 3,000. We come from the fact that quarantine or isolation usually lasts 10, sometimes 14 days and over this time the contribution of CZK 3,000 to low-income families is already felt, it is already money, but for someone medium- and high-income it is certainly not motivation to want to be sick about it. So it will help those who are severely affected economically in the disease, and overall those costs would be significantly lower. This would mean, calculated on people covid plus, or just the positive ones, roughly CZK 350 million per month. It would only be for a person who, at the time of the regulation of isolation or quarantine, I stress the regulation, i.e. on the basis of an epidemiological inquiry, the possible quarantine, the person who would be an employee in the main employment relationship, a civil servant or a member of the Security Council, a self-employed person or a partner of a limited liability company meeting the conditions of the Act on a compensatory bonus or a person doing work under an agreement on work outside the employment relationship, and as a result, at least three calendar months have been involved in sickness insurance as an employee. Yes, it is really difficult here that then some of the people will remain outside this support, and I am stressing that again. But I'm simply putting it as a proposal for a debate, a kick-off that I don't want to see criticized by being strictly outside the labour market for people. And I want to think about it, too, that it's administrative, it's possible through the county social security administration, despite the fact that information about the test results, about the outcome of the epidemiological investigation, our state has. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, we still have a pandemic that we need to keep under control for at least two, preferably three to four months until voluntary vaccination is achieved. [[10.40 hours]] Until then, we need to support the positive motivation of people, companies. Other countries consider it such an incentive to make contributions so that people can be in isolation and quarantined. I introduced you to three options. One: emergency sick leave, I think that's the best thing for me. Yes, even the cost of it is highest, but it will be low units of billions. Purely positive people are now getting a little over one billion a month. It would depend on the number of contacts that would be reported on the basis of this and would be eliminated as epidemiologically significant costs. Second option: increasing pay compensation and compensation for employers so that we could get to 80 percent and it was more motivating. The third option is a one-time contribution. I would like us to stop dehonesting all the experts who talk about the fact that such positive motivations in an extraordinary period of pandemic are a real thing to consider, and to think about it, wouldn't it really make sense? Thank you for your attention. You can find it in the system under 7286, 7287 and 7288. And I will come to read it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u13	Thank you, Mr Olza Richterová. Mrs Jana Pastuchová and Mrs Marek Novák came forward with a factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u14	Thank you. Very briefly, through you, to Mrs Richterová. These low-income families might even have a common flu. And mommy with the common flu can't stay home either, because she'd have a lower wage, Madame. So even those would be the special one, because they won't be spouting germs on their coworkers at work. I'm telling you, you can't take out one diagnosis that we're gonna pay to stay home. We've got flu, viruses, so we're gonna give them money, too? It really seems unsystemic to me. And another thing. This bill will now drive us all to the labour offices to recalculate their benefits. So the Czech administration can't cut it from 30 to 10, but we're going to run it all down to the labor authorities now because it's going to recalculate all possible demands on benefits. Well, then, let's help each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u15	Thank you. Member Marek Novák now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. So I, in response to the previous speaker, colleague Richterová, through you, of course. Thank you so much for reminding Maslowův's theory. Great. If we were to give everyone what they want, I don't know where we'd go. Not far, maybe without a foot on the marathon. You're still saying, and it only costs a few billion, what it is within that package. I'll tell you one such motto from us: Potato to potato, mercedes in the yard. Remember, start thinking about it. First the money needs to be taken somewhere, then it is only possible to distribute the money in some way. On the one hand, you're accusing us that we're not budgetaryly responsible, on the other hand, you'd be throwing out all your pockets. Please remember that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u17	Thank you. Now MP Petr Beitl, then colleague Třešňák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday there was something about where the paved road was paved, which was paved with good intentions. As my colleague Richterová, through the President, has put it, this is really betting on this behavioral or educational function, but I would like to point out here that man is a sinful vessel. A lot of entrepreneurs have been through this in the spring at the lockdown, when people just don't want to go back to work with the big replacements. The 80 percent in the quarantine diagnosis - and the quarantine, please, it's not a disease. If one sick person turns around the company, it means that all employees of the company could be quarantined at their 80 percent. And let's not say it's not happening. I've heard some opinion here that there must be a diagnosis. But I was quarantined. My quarantine was based on the fact that the infected person called me, that she was diagnosed as a covid positive, that I should be quarantined. My contact with the physician was over the phone, and it was all done. I wasn't in any epidemiological inquiry. And that's what's threatening, and thousands of people. Let us remember that a large part of the economy still works, and let us not take steps to jeopardize these segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u19	Thank you. Now MP Petr Třešňák. Marian Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u20	Good morning, colleagues. I'm just in a hurry. In fact, I'm amazed to hear the speakers. Yesterday there was a whole day of debate about the emergency situation, where individual instruments were discussed to combat the COVID-19 epidemic effectively so that the numbers would not grow. According to regional sanitation stations, quarantine is an effective tool, and if it is respected and there are motivational tools to follow it, this will clearly help in the fight against COVID-19. And if I were to respond to my colleague Pastuchová, through Mr President, yes, it may sound that we are pulling out of the context and we will prefer one diagnosis. But I could remind you and look up the government press conferences, where Minister Blatný talks about restricting further care in some hospitals precisely because of the care of patients with COVID-19. And the analogy is exactly the same here. We also restrict routine care to suppress COVID-19, and it doesn't seem strange to us at all. It's even an official government position. So in this, I'm going to ask you to really think about whether the support for quarantine and 80% of sick leave isn't exactly the instrument that could be effective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u21	Thank you. Now MP Marian Jurečka. And one more application from Mrs. Pastuchová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u22	Thank you very much. I also allow myself to respond to words about not ripping out one diagnosis and doing non-systemic things. The whole world has been doing completely unsystemic things here for 12 months because of one diagnosis. We do non-systemic things here most of the time in the House because of one diagnosis. All the other diseases haven't been able to lead us to it yet, to force us to do it, we didn't have to do it under the pressure. Now we're doing it. And I confess, I was talking about it yesterday. This proposal gives me some logic, because every day, a lockdown costs us about CZK 1.5 billion, which someone will have to pay. If we put out billions of troops here to support people, to be motivated to be responsible and not to worry about their livelihoods, it gives me the logic that the cargo will be significantly lower than the long-term costs we will bear for another x weeks within the lockdown. I was talking about supporting not only people, but I mentioned companies yesterday. I'm ready to give incentives, because that's a second important motivation, too, because the company is carrying the cargo. So let's take a look at it this way. Maybe we can't solve this with this press, even if I'd like to, so at least some of what we're proposing here will pass, but go back to that thought, because this reflection is very important. If we can't solve this, I understand the fear that the first step in this concern is: We're gonna lose workers in those facilities where we need them, especially health care, in intensive beds. But if we don't do anything, we're still gonna have them in that overloaded condition that we've been in for three and a half months. These are things that are tied together, and somewhere, the knot has to be able to break and start systematically unraveling. And this is one of the steps to make this systematic unraveling happen, how to keep these people personally responsible for themselves and their surroundings, while not putting them in a state of poverty or loss of large income, traveling to debt traps, losing a roof over their heads and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u24	Thank you. I would practically like to ask how it will be done if the first 14 days are paid by an employer who doesn't know the diagnosis? So who's he gonna give more and who's he gonna give as much as he's got? I don't know. That's the first thing. [[10.50 hours]] And the second thing, through Mr President, to Mr Třešňák. No routine care is restricted. The planned performances are limited. If you get a ruptured appendicitis or anything in the hospital, it'll go into surgery. The planned performances are suspended, so please don't panic here that we don't have routine care. Acute things are being operated on. I go there, my colleague. Come. I'm on duty tomorrow at 12. Come with me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u25	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. We are continuing the debate. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková's performance, Marian Jurečka will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I will try to return the debate to the original government bill that we have tabled here and which we are to discuss. Let me start with two brief notes. First of all, to colleagues from YES, to the original one that was presented. The government can only do what the law tells it to do. A clerk can feel whatever he's dealing with, but unfortunately, he can't do what he wants. Even if he understood this man a thousand times, he can only do what he has in the law, or in the laws of the law given to him, because if he exceeds these standards, he is, of course, being punished. And that's right, it has to be, there can't be a will. I thank my colleague Richterová, through Mr President, for explaining the need to motivate people not to be afraid to stay at home in order to benefit from the economic quarantine, to go into quarantine, and to avoid the spread of coronavirus. Let us believe that we can do this, but this discipline is essential. I will go back to what the state administration can or cannot do, and I will say that for this bill that we have tabled, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister Maláčová very much and very much thank you. It is not quite usual that the Ministry, the central government body, can predict the bureaucratic effects of measures in practice and the problems that arise for people, in time to prevent them. This proposal by reducing the conditions for the payment of financially tested doses in advance precludes us all known - and what makes us all so very upset - is the throbbing of the official. It must be unimaginable despair when a single person or a family who actually has very low income has lost part of the income of a sick person who has been paid or paid up to 30 days, which is a legal period before Christmas, and after Christmas, because it has been paid to her, it has been added to her normal income. The family - the singles - will lose the test doses that help her survive and are part of her budget. These people have their expenses set up for what they're getting in that month, and once there's blackouts, they're in big trouble, and we have to see it. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs proposes an adjustment that, at the time when such a situation may occur, will bridge by putting into the law for a certain period of time, while it is calculated that we will still have to deal with covid, so that the infirmary does not count. It makes sense in an emergency, and it is important to those most vulnerable groups in which children, i.e. low-income families and single families, are single parents. I quote from the explanatory memorandum on what this relates: "It is proposed that the sick person belonging to the period from October 2020 to June 2021 do not count against the relevant income for the income-tested benefits of state social support, i.e. for child allowance, housing allowance and childbirth allowance as well as an increase in the allowance for care provided under the Social Services Act.' I would stress that this is an emergency measure for the infirmary provided up to 30 at the latest. 6. 2020. For this reason, I thank all of you for agreeing to negotiate in a legislative emergency. Because this is really about speed. These people, to whom it relates, do not have, as was said in Moravia, in the closet, simply have no savings. They manage from paycheck to paycheck, and it's important that they get the paycheck, the allowance, on time. Once again, I thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the taming of the administration, and I am very much intercede to approve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u27	Thank you, Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u28	Thank you very much. I must also say that I am impressed by the remarkable analogy of Mr Novák, who spoke of them being like this - I do not know if it was a saying - the rule of "champion potato, mercedes in the yard." I mean, I admit, I don't know what period and region it was in, but I've never met Mercedes in the yard since he was a kid who grew up in a farm and picked millions of potatoes with these hands. But that was a little lightening. I'll be brief. I want to say that here I welcome the efforts of the MPSV to straighten out some things that can negatively affect families or single mothers when the system is overloaded. I think that in other cases, we have tried to find solutions that have responded to the overload of the system so that it is comfortable for people. Although it is no longer comfortable because, of course, there is a situation where there is a delay in the payment not only of social support benefits, but also in many other areas, which are also related to the health care centre for the self-employed and so on. However, I took the liberty of making one amendment to this press, and I would ask you very much to consider its support, because he is actually going in the spirit that the Minister here is saying with this proposal. My proposal concerns the medics. I was talking here yesterday about the question of taxing their dues for duty, but please nicely, it has an impact on the families of the medics. Those cases have come to me in the last few days, when the family has more children, the medic's duty is imposed on the student, but unfortunately, it also counts on the basis of possible social support, and even if the medic makes a little bit of money, the real threat is that the family loses more than the doctor's earnings. The medic then in the finals - his family - doesn't actually have any benefit from his work obligation, and the guy did it for free. Unfortunately, it's a very special approach. I understand that legislation couldn't remember this, this situation that will be here and it will take so long. So I, please nicely, here I am making an amendment to the amendment that, at a time when the pandemic has been running here since last year, and I am putting into effect by the end of this year, so that the compensation for carrying out the work obligation under the crisis law is not and is not a decisive income within the meaning of the State Social Support Act and the Social Services Act. [[11.00 hours]] It really doesn't seem fair to those families. I understand that someone will object to me: they're tens or hundreds of families, but for me personally, on principle, if it were one single case, it wouldn't seem to me. So I would like to ask if you could respond positively to this, Madam Secretary. And Members, if you could support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u29	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová in the general debate, so far the last one entered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I would just like to say for the KSČM parliamentary club that we will, of course, support this proposal. However, I must say that even the reservations that my previous speakers have said, whether my colleague Pastuchová or the rapporteur, we have really thought about them and to a large extent we agree with them. I must say that I am quite surprised by the amendments, particularly by the pirát. Because, more or less, such proposals that are not - and you are giving them in a legislative emergency - are not discussed. We don't have any opinions to discuss this any more. And aside from the emergency sick leave, of course not. So I am afraid that, although we may be able to talk about some help or form, we will certainly abstain from these proposals precisely because they are put on this proposal in a legislative emergency. As regards Mr Jurečka's amendment: We have also discussed this. It was put into the system on time, but it is because of this situation that we consider it an sticker. I'm sorry, I understand that this is definitely meant by KDU positively, when we're on the positive side of things, so I'm just saying the attitude for us. I am afraid, however, that when we talked about the situation at the Czech Administration and we talked about it on the Social Policy Committee, when I return to the original proposal that it is nothing new, that the sick person's payments are delayed. But we know from the spring months, and we also know from the autumn that the infirmary's payroll lasted for, like, two, two and a half months. I have to say that I have a bit of a feeling here - and I greatly appreciate the Czech administration, because if we want something whenever we want it and I have the experience of ordinary citizens who ask that the employees of the Czech administration are very helpful and help with everything they can - I do not feel that we are now recording a little bit again to those employees of the employment office. And if you remember, I was here to talk about it, so we managed to push for $50 million to pay social workers in municipal offices and magistrates who work there, because it was at the beginning of the first wave of pandemic that they helped the office of work with clients. Because the labor authorities had more or less worked by putting up a basket or urn in front of their office, and they were throwing in the documents, and then, of course, they were dealing with them in the offices and comparing them. But we also have a lot of people who often didn't know much about filling out questionnaires and forms, and that's what social workers were doing at the offices. And to a large extent, they were able to direct them even to help them. I am very concerned that we are going to burden the officials of the employment offices here again and that it will not just be the figures declared by the Deputy Minister on the Committee on Social Policy. There it was estimated to be about tens of thousands of requests from clients, but that, on the contrary, there could be a much different event and then we can only be afraid that our employment office and, above all, our officials will be able to deal with other things, and not just this area. [[to]] Of course, nobody seems to want the impact of this pandemic to be on any family, any citizen, but on the other hand, I think that maybe if we have known about this matter for so long, for us it should be dealt with a little bit by other things, because even some of the measures that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself has dealt with in the field of social services, I have to say that it does not bring anything positive in practice and, more or less, it is very critical of social service providers. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u31	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. I see two priority rights, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, but before that, Mr Vlastimil Válek, as chairman of the MP's club. All right, Madam Secretary, you're first, so you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u32	Thank you, Mr President, I will try very briefly to respond to those suggestions, complaints, etc. The main problem with this proposal or this amendment is that employers do not have a time limit until which they can submit an application for medical district administration. Of course, we were wondering whether to set a deadline, but then we are immediately at the mechanisms of sanctions and the question is, if we so lengthyly proceed to this solution, whether it would be productive or rather counterproductive. We believe that, at this time, it would be more counterproductive to burden employers, to impose sanctions on them, and so on. Logically after experience with the first wave, however, we prepared a completely different, new system of payment for the infirmary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the summer. We wanted to go the way in which the infirmaries would pay the employers, and the sums that their employees would pay for the infirmary with wages, that is, in fact, immediately, and the families wouldn't feel the loss of income, would be deducted from social security contributions. This seemed to us to be the least administratively demanding, time-consuming, extremely fast non-bureocratic system not only for pandemic times. However, if you remember, when I opened up the infirmary's question in the summer, and I said, "Let's talk about how we're gonna set up the infirmary to make it quicker to change the system, then I guess I was six times rejected by the Prime Minister who said that schools wouldn't close, and that's why the question of the infirmary isn't appropriate. At a time of emergency, I don't think it's right to change the whole system completely and run into a whole new system. We were supposed to do that in the summer, when there was time and when there was room for it and we could get ready. So for this reason, I would have closed the debate. In the summer we had room to prepare, families could receive instantly, basically with a paycheck, there would be no such situations and we would not have to discuss this amendment. So the core of the problem is really within the deadline of the employer's application. As far as the discussion on the motivation of employees or people who have a positive covid test is concerned: we have a problem with the high transmission of the pandemic, so I believe that the debate is correct. We have also discussed it several times at government level. Of course, the solution is extremely complex, but when we look at the other Member States, we do not need to invent the system from the start, but only to inspire in countries where it works. Personally, I'm leaning towards the British model, which means a one-off extraordinary contribution in some fixed amount, which, of course, has the advantage of being administratively undemanding, being fair, and, of course, the same amount for all of them as compensation for the loss of income due to sickness, because of the extreme spread of pandemics here, so, of course, for those who need it most financially acceptable. However, this is an extremely important debate. It is a very complex matter, it is a very high level of intervention in legislation, which is why I think I thank you for opening up the debate on Parliament's floor, but I think that such a change should not be adopted through, and I apologise for the honesty, through an amendment to the law that concerns something else, and at the same time it is in a legislative emergency. Because such things are hard to discuss. [[11.10 hours]] But I think that's the way to handle the pandemic. I think that we have been ahead of us for several months, and actually experience from all over Europe shows that this is the right way, and I think that we should approach this because even the money that it will cost, and we're talking about billions of crowns, it's going to be an expensive thing, but at the same time, the investment pays off in the sense that it's probably the time to spread pandemics and extreme lockdowns, superlockdowns, etc. it's going to get shorter. So for this reason, I think we need to discuss this, we support it as Social Democrats, but we need to discuss it well, we need to have a consensus at the level of the government, across the political spectrum, and so a huge intervention is simply on a government proposal or at least on a broader debate. So we support the principle, yes, important, but for technical reasons I give a neutral position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u33	Thank you, Minister. And now, Mrs Pastuchová, with a point of fact and Mr Vlastimil Válek's priority right. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u34	Thank you. Madam Secretary, with all due respect to you, I've been running around with my social committee colleagues, and no one has ever heard of your proposal to change the infirmary. I think we'd all be joining in on this. I don't know, I've been running the committee for almost three years, and no one knew anything about a proposal like that. If I may, I will ask again, we have here from the government the Minister of Finance, if this proposal has been discussed in any way in the government when the infirmary will be dealt with. But as far as I know, it wasn't there either, and we don't know about it, so I don't know what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u35	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek now. Then again, Madam Secretary. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u36	If I may, I thought the ladies would still be debating, but if they don't, I'll take the liberty. The emergency situation is a very atypical situation, it takes a very long time and requires people to follow a number of rules that are unpleasant, which are often devastating, but necessary to avoid spreading infections. I guess you can understand that. Any violation of the rules, any circumvention of the rules that is already so obvious to morale, which is why, in times of emergency, I think that we should first insist that the law, enforcement of law and all that we accept apply to everyone is as fair and as helpful as possible. I am glad that, at least in the areas of discussion, the way they are going to do it, or that some amendments are trying to do it, and, after all, that is why we, as the TOP 09, will support this bill. However, I must afford to comment on some of the things that have been said here. I understand that basic care is not limited, but we all know that, unfortunately, various expressions fall, not entirely happy, which say that there will be no elective performance, which even sounds from the mouth of ministers to the address, and not just from the mouth of ministers, and from the health committee, to some directors of health establishments, who, despite the fact that they are not supposed to perform elective performances, continue to engage in normal patients in need of care. I could name the hospitals, but I think we all know what I'm talking about, and after all, we can read it. We all know that there is no definition, no list of elective or non-acute performances. It's always to assess a particular doctor's condition. So, yes, if this House decides that individual health establishments have every right and full responsibility to decide on the extent to which to provide non-acute care, depending on how overwhelmed they are or not overwhelmed by the care of covids, and if they have the room to provide the care they provided at the time of the non-covids, that they will in no way be reduced, I will only be happy to punish them for being fully covered by the health insurance company. Unfortunately, there is information here and there from the Minister's mouth that this will not be the case, and then, of course, the Members are resisting it, because they want to know clearly what kind of care is or is not restricted and what kind of elective care it is. I also think there's a full consensus here that we want citizens to follow the rules. Let's remember yesterday and our two coworkers with no masks, and what happened here. This means: we want citizens to wear drapes because we mostly think that's a good thing and that it helps prevent the spread of infection. We want them to wear the highest quality drapes. We want them to be positive and risk infecting their surroundings to be quarantined - thank you, Madam Secretary - so let us look for ways to do this. Let's look for these paths constructively, look for those paths together and quickly. And the third thing that I think is very important - we always remember a group, but this really should be dealt with systemically. When I came here, I realized that I was repeatedly asked for help, and I tried to do so - in vain - by the organizers and those who support congresses and fairs, especially trade fairs. We totally forgot about them. I know, it's only two cities, Brno and Prague, because there are most trade fairs - not just these two cities, but above all. And yet by the fact that there's practically no fair for a year, there's no exhibition, so all those who do it for a living, and that's a few hundred thousand people, so they don't appear in the system. And of course, yes, we have students here, not just medical schools, health schools. We do not want them to be unwittingly placed in medical and other facilities and not to study, do not pass the exams, on the other hand, we are fully aware, I think, that in a number of cases, without their help, the functioning of the system is either difficult or even impossible. We thanked them repeatedly for it, and that's right, we repeatedly said here that health professionals are the ones we thank for spending a huge amount of time in hospitals today, not taking vacations, not just them, but them on the front line, and that students of health schools, medical schools and others who help are absolutely key. Okay, let's look for ways to reward them, how to support them, and if that path is so that they don't have to pay taxes, health and social insurance, then let's look constructively for that path. I think these are concrete examples where we are not talking about the opposition's position, the coalition, the right-wing, the left-wing, but we are talking about how to overcome the crisis, how to do it in agreement, and let us try to admit that any Member on any side can have a good idea and deserve to have a decent, correct discussion about it, and the facts either supported or disproved. Let's try it! We're not doing this for ourselves, we're doing this for the management of the pandemic, and we're doing it for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u37	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. If no one checks in... Even in the general debate, or with the final word after the general debate? In the general debate. Please, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u38	Thank you. I wanted to respond to President Pastuchová, she's not here, but I'll say it in general. I don't have a problem with the fact that we disagree, or if we disagree, but I'd like to ask President Pastuchová, and I'll tell her to her face, let's do it nicely and respectfully. The proposal to simplify the infirmary is made, I will be happy to introduce it to the members of the social committee, but this discussion has never taken place in the government, because I quote once again, the Prime Minister said that schools will not close. For this reason, the proposal was not discussed. But at the same time, it has to be said that, despite the fact that we have not changed the system to the payment of the infirmary, we have simplified the entire process to the utmost, and just that at the moment it is in medical care, and I know that many citizens still consider it a very complex system, just that the entire form is on one page, that it can be done electronically, even if many citizens do not have electronic access etc., so we consider it possible that it happened again at the last moment and in an emergency, to be a huge simplification. But I'm not resisting the debate, and if there's any interest, I'm going to send the proposal to the Social Committee because I think if we did this in the summer, we could save this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u39	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a general debate. It's not like that. I conclude the general debate and ask if there is interest in final words. It's not like that. In this case, I open the debate in detail. Mrs Olga Richterová applied for it and Marian Jurečka prepared herself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. In order to consider the possibility that this is a short-term issue and that it is a new big issue, I am reading Amendments 7286, 7287 and 7288 as different ways to positively motivate people to go into quarantine and isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u42	Thank you. In the general debate, I have justified my amendment and I therefore report to the press 7278. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-003-001.u43	Thank you, Mr Marian Jurečka. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask about the final words after a detailed debate. It's not like that. So we can interrupt point one. Thank you, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we will return to item number 2, which we can already do, because you have just been handed out to the bench amendments that have been processed in the legislation. So we'll go back to discussing the third reading of print 1134.
