ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u1	343. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - third reading Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová took the position at the rapporteur's table, and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee is Mrs Jana Pastuchová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 961/3, which was delivered on 24 March this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House prints 961/4 and 5. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the finals with the amendment to the Children's Group Act, or the nursery, and I think that we are all happy to do so across the political spectrum. The law brings a breakthrough in ensuring system care for the smallest children, we create a base for a network of childcare services within three years guaranteed by the state, quality, available, even locally and financially. The key is the choice of parents regarding parental strategy and reconciliation of family and working life. We also take into account the needs of children. The functioning of children's groups has been very successful, so we take over the quality base and continue to develop. [[11.20 hours]] Let me point out here that a compromise as badly worked as this government proposal is like a house of cards - if one parameter changes, the whole system will crumble as if you just pull the bottom card out of the house. These basic parameters are stable national funding, we will continue to strive for EU funds, but it will not be on a project basis, but we will transfer financial resources between the budget chapters, if Europe agrees, to put a stop to parental contributions. It is important that the nursery, or children's groups, are not luxury, are not elite kindergartens, but are really available to care for families so that they can really choose whether they want to reconcile or care for their smallest. And, of course, age-related to kindergarten. Because we've already listed a lot of things, I'm not going to keep reading them. I beg you to consider this proposal. It is really about having financially, locally available care for the smallest children, which is the aim of this amendment. We take what was good in children's groups, and we put it on the current system so that really families, if they need to work or want to work, can have good support from the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u3	Thank you. I am now opening up a debate in which Mrs Richterová is the first to be joined at the moment. Ambassador Čižinský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u4	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I simply want to get to the vote, but at the same time to see what the difficulties of the proposal are. I'm gonna try to point out that the devil is hidden in detail, and with the design that's here, especially. The point is that the flexible system, the system that supplemented kindergartens, becomes a very rigid system, tied up, bound by the age limit that is proposed to be introduced, and unfortunately bound by some technical parameters. So I will really try to focus very briefly on the fact that today we have a general problem of our country, a lack of places in kindergarten, places in the care of young children, and this problem, to which children's groups contribute in some way to alleviate, because they provide 16,000 places of such care, so let us avoid this problem when these strict changes go through. The point is that care for pre-school children will in any case pay off to the State. The point is that all studies show that just early and high-quality care compares the differences between families. There are very interesting American researches about how one dollar invested in preschool care will return nine times. Nine times! That's just a return no other investment has. So when we sum up the importance of this standard, we lack the space for small children, we lack the possibility of a really free choice for families with small children, because if you just don't have the child anywhere to put, then you don't have a free choice. Now what do we vote for? More restrictions. It's a shame, I know the secretary didn't want it at first. But we still have a chance to fix some things. What can be corrected are the unnecessary technical standards, colleagues and colleagues. And now I'm going to stress. for kindergartens, these standards are very strict, especially with regard to lighting. Please think about the standards in the apartments. In apartments with regard to lighting, it is also set in our country very well, but in kindergartens it is even tougher. So we need to be able to approve an amendment that could allow children's groups to be in such spaces as the standard apartment lighting. And that's the very key thing, because the slightly higher quality given that kindergartens were often built on free spaces, windows from both sides and so on, it's just not possible to keep up in some big cities because there's no room for that. So what's it gonna mean if the lightning limit isn't reduced? They will simply close children's groups in Prague because they will not find suitable premises, probably still in Brno, simply in places where there is a lack of real estate. I give this as a specific thing that may not seem to you, dear colleagues, but it is the devil hidden in detail. About the age limit. I told you last time, just a brief summary. Today, it is very practical for parents to choose. When they have a good group of children, their four-year-olds are used to it, they add their two-year-olds, they carry both children in the morning, four-year-olds and two-year-olds, all of them are satisfied, and for that compulsory pre-school education, some groups are also equipped. But I am willing to accept any compromise of the type that compulsory preschool education is already being carried out in kindergartens, but at least within four years of age, please leave children in children's groups. Now the limit is designed for three years, until the fourth birthday tops. Sharp line, over. Again - why? Is it just because the ministry is arguing about who solves education and who solves care? I think we know in families that this really isn't that different. And the last thing I would very, very, very much like to say is that this is a proposal that we have to pay from the state budget. I do not know how Mr Bauer of the ODS will comment on this, but I think this is how the original plan was prepared just under the ODS, that children's groups should simply be from the state budget. It's basic civil service, like kindergarten. We don't want anyone else paying for them at kindergartens, and those kids' groups are supplementing the offer as kindergartens. So one more time. The basic standard of our state should be that all families with young children have real freedom of choice, which means a real opportunity to reconcile work and care. Everyone has a choice. Of course, there are families who want to be home with the kids for a long time, that's quite all right. But then there are those who want or have to work, and they don't often have that option today. I'll give you one more number. As soon as nursery places are available for two-year-olds, they're everywhere, all over the country, in rural regions, wherever you think, the children are given. All families on the statistical average are okay with that. Of course, it's usually for a shorter time, it's often for a part of the day. But they're just fine with working part-time and giving those little kids part-time. I want to show that there is demand, and people want and need places for children. Once care is good, it doesn't harm children. We should take particular care of quality. [[11.30 hours]] But what's the threat? And that is the last thing I would like to draw attention to here: there is a risk that someone will try to blame me or someone else for the possibility that the European Union may not support further funding of children's groups from European funds, from European projects. As I said before, I believe that, like kindergartens, this is a service that we are simply supposed to provide for families, the foundation of the state, to provide them with the opportunity to reconcile care and work. And I believe that painting pink by changing the name - and changing the name is nothing more than painting. I wish every provider could choose, but we don't force the provider to change legal documents because of unnecessary change of name to a manger. And that proposed ceilinging the contribution, which would again cause a problem in large cities, that these are things that would make the European Union more comfortable, soothing and making European funding easier to negotiate. Please, the officials there understand. They know this is just overpainting. And what we need is a system that will work, a system that will allow flexible groups to arise according to where they are needed, and a system that will allow even to take into account that somewhere unfortunately there are high rents for those spaces, somewhere unfortunately there are simply different wage conditions. And I'm going to conclude that they're nonprofit organizations. They have absolutely no opportunity to function on the principle of profit. So the whole debate is about whether, as a state in our budget, we will support the children's groups, whether or not we are going to throw unnecessary sticks at them, and whether or not we will allow them to take into account the fact that the conditions in the apartments, including the lighting in the apartments, are sufficient for the children's groups to work in them as well. I would be very pleased if you would consider these arguments, my fellow Members and colleagues. It matters very much to me. Available places of care for small children is one very intense point of our society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u5	I thank you, your performance has raised a point of fact. Mr. Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u6	Thank you. I'd like to respond to my colleague more technically as she spoke about the sun and the lighting and so on about the space. The problem is that you have said, through the President, my colleague, that this could be enough as an apartment. But, as you and my colleague Čižinský will certainly confirm, there is quite a fundamental discussion in the area of building law and at all building regulations, to what extent it is to be given in those apartments as it is now being addressed, or whether it is to be dealt with by another approach. Because of course we still have the problem of studios versus apartments, non-residential spaces versus apartments, there is required other lighting and so on. So I just want to warn you that it applies now and tell it to be like in the apartments, it's enough, so the discussion about the apartments itself is also going on at this time. So I'm just going to ask you to think about it, because if it were strictly linked to apartments and apartments something happened in the future in a different direction than it is now given, either by building regulations in Prague or by technical parameters elsewhere, so that we don't lose later in the children's groups. Because after all, the children's collectives certainly require that the environment be as good as possible for them. So I'm just asking for a supplement to keep an eye on it, or to update it based on what's going on in another expert discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u7	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, by your means, as well as for my colleague Richterová, I was impressed in her speech by the idea of nonprofit that they are actually doing this for those children, and that is the main objective. But we've all been receiving dozens of e-mails lately, with the support of these activities, I have nothing against it, and I don't look like an expert, but there's one thing I'm interested in. When I read them, in a few e-mail cases, the writer admits that he runs three, four, sometimes more children's groups. So it's a business, a clean baby storage business, if I'm vulgar in that view, but it's business. So now if we're going to compete with classic kindergartens and things like that, or if it's really helping moms, parents, and so on in the care of the child when they're employed. But if it's business, we should treat it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u9	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u10	It's a nonprofit organization in that it can't generate profit. So, yes, I know people who are just handsome, so they create more children's groups, and, yes, they feed them well. But they can't make more profit out of it than their salary. And it's a very important principle that, just as we have kindergartens that we set up stately, so in parallel, different kinds of founders, different kinds, may as well be municipalities, they can be public bodies - they can be children's groups. And since we have different conditions, different high rents, different high salaries, there are, of course, different contributions from parents. I will just recap: Of course, I am a supporter of high quality and high standards, which means little children per caregiver, especially for small ones, but that is what the children's groups have introduced. And somewhere the control failed, I know that, but there's no need to discuss that. In my opinion, all we can do is tighten up specific control mechanisms. But what is happening now is that the proposed age limit limiting system and very strict lighting - which is new, please, it has not been there - so this system will be conducted especially in large cities where there is a shortage of places for children - and these are clear statistics, as the countryside is evacuating, and there are just more places in kindergartens, and that is why the two-year-olds can be there, and vice versa, not in large cities. And it is in large cities that children's groups cover it by simply operating at least today in areas that, because I have visited many of them personally, are appropriate, but according to the new regulation, as proposed, they would have to disappear. And that's what's bothering me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u11	Thank you, and there have been a few more factual remarks. Mrs Aulická, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By your means, my colleague Richterová: I must say that I have already told my colleague Čižinský that I am not going to support this amendment, and if I could, I am pushing him four times against it, red, because that is exactly how it is shown the error in which the original bill on children's groups was adopted. We have, in fact, allowed the benefit of caring for the smallest children in such conditions. And now that we finally have a novel here that regulates the conditions so that children are cared for correctly, and it doesn't matter just the number of people, I just want to say that quality care isn't just about having three people for 12 children, but above all it is about what conditions and how good they are. So don't ask me to support these atrocities so that we can retreat from the parameters that they are, and I'm glad for that, in this bill. This is what we say, that it is necessary for the state to really give quality conditions. And even what a colleague of the ČSSD said here: Oh, my God, do you really think that caring for a child in the 1920s is actually what we're here to support? Forget it, really! It's supposed to be quality care. Children have been there since six months. And I think that... and it's a shame that the Minister of Health isn't here, because the Ministry of Health has made some major comments, and it was fundamentally against, and I am very happy for that. I'm missing a representative of the Ministry of Education here today. But don't want us to encourage the atrocities to degrade our care for the little ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u13	Thank you. Mr Luzar, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your help, to my colleague Richterová: I really am not an expert on children's groups and children's upbringing. But her words about quality emphasized it very much, I appreciate that, but I have witnessed it, and unfortunately it is not even smiling anymore, in the founders of social institutions and care for seniors, in the private sector, which started out exactly the same way and then all the municipalities and regions had huge problems with it when they started to develop, failed to control and in many it really looked - now I will not use vulgarisms - terribly tragically and those people were there to save those who had it in their best will and conscience, and did not do so. [[11.40 hours]] I would hate for us to introduce a model - in good faith, of course - but with a quick turn of hand, without enough information, in a moment, to start taking measures to check them, mandatory reports and more and more, as it must now be done in those social institutions, and I think that everyone who had a little chance of moving around in those regions knows that such institutions, for which they are not particularly praised, have a problem with the quality card. So I'm not questioning the idea that it's the idea of allowing other children to be taken care of, but I'm pointing out the risks associated with it because we've tried it out in the context of senior welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u15	Thank you. One de facto was erased here. Mrs Richterová, then she wanted the de facto Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u16	I really wish the law had been passed. I just absolutely cannot admit that you really, Mrs Aulická, by your means, Mr President, did you mean that these children's groups are atrocities? Did I hear that right? I think I misheard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u17	Now, Madam Secretary, then, the de facto remark made by Mr Čižinský, then by Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u18	I would like to support the argument that, as Mr Luzar mentioned here, if we continue with the fact that children's groups, for example, will not be financially ceilinged, that is, the parents' contribution, so we will really go the way we have been taking care of seniors in recent decades, that there will be room for private business - the 10,000 argument does not interest us, that parents should pay for better care, and we will go at enormous cost to the state by supporting business in the care of children, because at the moment families do not have an alternative, and our aim, the aim of the government bill, is quality care, but also local and financial accessibility. Every one of you who has little children knows that every crown counts. And even if it is 5,000 or 7,000, these are huge amounts for families with children, and I ask you not to create business opportunities in the care of a child, but to go the way of a state-funded but also regulated quality care for all children, not just for the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u19	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, then Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u20	I really don't think it's possible to take really some excess that can be one or two, let's put these excesses on the table, and we can actually take action against excesses. There's another way to intervene, but to say here that there are atrocities happening in children's groups, to say here that it's business, so it's really - I think - insulting thousands of people, tens of thousands of parents who put those children there and who are fighting for survival at these moments, because they're just not open, they don't have funding. And let's really put these standards on the table. There's no fair game here. There's no one here from the Ministry of Health, there's no one here from the Ministry of Education. It just seems like the Ministry doesn't care, and the health inspector should be here to tell us what it's like. Saying that where these kids normally live doesn't stand a chance of passing through as a children's group or possibly a nursery if it has to be called a nursery.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u21	Thank you. Mrs Aulická, factual point, then Mr Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to explain to my colleague Richterová, through you, and to my colleague Čižinský, that I did not mean that there would be atrocities in children's groups, but that we would, in fact, today, when we give the parameters that I think, and there are also hygiene standards that we are talking about right now, are really on some at least partial level, because it still doesn't compare to kindergartens at all, as hygiene standards and those parameters are given, so it's important that we actually accept it, and not reduce the parameters that you actually say are needed, because it's actually not necessary in those apartments. All I'm saying is that I don't want to get to the level of the 1920s here, and that we don't really care where these kids are being watched, where they're being cared for, and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u23	Thank you. Mr Juříček, then Mrs Richterová, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u24	Yes, hello, ladies and gentlemen. As I was accused of being a modern slaver here, I tried to form a children's group - thank you, Mr Čižinský, through the President. Yes, I think that's where we should focus. Focus on how to loosen up the conditions for children's groups, whatever their names, to be able to arise and focus on how private kindergartens can be created, which is linked to each other. And I have to say that I even made a complete project, I had it all completely thought out, but actually based on what we found out from the point of view of hygiene conditions and eating children, so it was so insurmountable that I had to withdraw from the project, even though we had evaluated nutritional values for children and so on, but these are simply very difficult to overcome obstacles that the state has built to those - whether it is in the quotes of a private kindergarten or whether it is in quotation marks, as someone here said, business, which I think is no business at all, and given how many caregivers there must be, how many all conditions must be, these are really very difficult to overcome. And there I would really recommend that you focus on it and loosen up the possibilities so that eventually even - the state will eventually save, because when these children's groups or kindergartens are in the hands of private quotes or associations, it is always economically much more advantageous for the state than when it is organized by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u25	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, then Mrs Gajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u26	Thank you very much for this remark, Mr Member, to my speaker, because that is the core of the poodle. This is not really about anyone softening the current strict standards - unfortunately, there was no consensus on this, unfortunately - but it is just a proposal, the amendment is to maintain the current situation. So you've all heard how difficult the current situation is, how strict it is, and what's going on is another tightening up. And that is why total demagogy was what was said here about desperate conditions a hundred years ago. It's really not like that. It is merely to preserve the current possibilities, as tens of thousands of children have already worked, who have passed through the children's groups over the past few years. Only to maintain the current state of affairs, and even this is faced with such enormous resistance here. I'm really sorry, but I can't call it anything but demagogy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u27	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, then Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable House, I would like to ask you one each of you what you wish for your children. I'm sure each and every one of you would have answered my question. And so if we want what is best for our children, for our children, just as the state must set rules for children to get the best. Regardless of the social situation of the family, regardless of whether the child lives in a small town, in a village or here in Prague. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what it is about. We wish for the best. The state has a duty to set the rules so that every child gets the best. First of all. [[11.50 hours]] And secondly, I disagree with the ideological thesis that what is private is always the best and cheapest. I'd remember the price of water in private organizations, I'd remember social services and all the other things that when they move the private sector, the rule that it's the cheapest is no longer valid. Therefore, there must be a state that sets some boundaries, some standards, and guarantees access to every person, especially in the public service segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u29	Have a good morning. Mr Petr Dolínek will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u30	Thank you. As the concepts of demagogy and so forth are used here, I would just like to assure you, through you, a colleague of the Pirates, that I am certainly not against children's groups. I got off with something a little different at the beginning, and I want to say it here so that there's no more group e-mails, so someone doesn't text me that I'm attacking children's groups here. I've gotten off with technical parameters, and I'm a little bit insistent on that. I am a Member for Prague, I live in Prague 6. I know a number of children's groups in Prague 6. I've been using the services of children's groups, I'm sure I'll be using them for about a year and a half, two years before we succeed in kindergarten, where we're more than happy. I think Teacher David is something great, a phenomenon in maternity education, an incredible person. And thank you for having him when our baby happens to get there. But on the other hand, I know a number of groups, not only active in Prague, but in different ways, which really took almost any rent or any space in quotation marks to take care of the children there. Then, of course, they tried to graft it from the inside to make the premises look nice, as friendly as possible for the children. But I was going to the technical standards. Let's worry about the fact that when someone comes with that group, it's really not in those... now it's not, but the ground floor and all that. So, please, I was pointing that out. I can't quite relate to what's in the law. Obviously, there will be no vote today, because that's where the colleagues put the other point, so we can't vote today. But I will still read closely the amendments, because, of course, I do not want to throw away the efforts of hundreds of people who do it willingly and willingly in good faith. But please, let's not do this on a flat-rate basis either in one direction or in the other. It needs to be weighed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u31	Mr Jan Čižinský, and at the same time, you are in the general debate, on the point of fact. Don't you want to put it together? You'd have unlimited time, you know? [[Chižinský's Member: We will see who will react.]] Okay, let's get real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u32	Thank you. I would like to respond now to my colleague Dolínek, through Mr President. I suppose it would be good, and I'm not really pushing you to have anything against children's groups, no way, no way, but I would advise you to see if that particular child's group meets that. That's not certain at all. This means that when you say that you will be using the services of a children's group for another year and a half, given the economic situation in which those groups are now in, and the Ministry does not give them the chance to survive, they do not get 50 percent of what they have to publish, it is a crisis situation, and they will read into it which decree they will have to comply with, so I am not quite sure if any of them will wrap it up. And yet I would dare, it was said here that we all want what is best for the children. Well, of course we want what's best for the kids. But what's best is really needed for parents to say. And for me, I have to say that more important is the care, there are those people who are there, how they behave, how they go out with the kids, how much time they spend out there. And I'm really worried that we don't serve it at all with this arrangement. And I would also respond to Mr. Juříček, because we're actually kind of in the same boat here. At this point, a lot of urban areas are building children's groups, and they're gonna smash and throw those projects away. It's just reality. Those projects are smashing and throwing away. There's hundreds of thousands, millions of crowns in it, and that's just the way it is. We specifically have two children's groups. We'll just throw it away, tear it up, and they'll be gone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u33	Now there's two actual notes coming in. Of course, you will have the opportunity to react. As the first Mrs Pastuchová, Mrs Hana Aulická will be prepared. [[To the rapporteur:]] You wanted to do the general debate? Okay. So Mrs Hana Aulická point of order and then Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be prepared. Please, two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief to leave some room for my colleague. A colleague of Čižinský. That's exactly how little kids should be cared for. I'd just like to illustrate that we're probably going to talk about this in other areas of the law we're discussing. But these are the knowledge that you probably miss at the moment, because it's really not just about the staff, but also about other measures and things that are consistent and make the concept of best care for the children as a whole. And maybe I just want to say that this law is under discussion, as far as I know, a year and a half or at least a year. This means that you, too, are now waiting in the preparation of self-government, and you certainly have been waiting, and the changes have been made as to how this is going to turn out. That means a little bit of doing projects at this time, if you don't actually know what the final law will be like, that seems a little irresponsible to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u35	Mr Čižinský now responds to the facts and prepares the Member for the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u36	Dear colleague, by your means, I'd like to tell you that I have four children, so I can imagine a little bit what it takes to take care of a little child. And as the mayor who set up several children's groups, kindergarten, I can imagine, too, because really, when we were elected, there was no room for 60 percent of three-year-olds. Now there are two-year-olds in kindergarten. We've built hundreds of places in kindergartens, hired staff, it works great, so I really feel like I know what I'm talking about. I think the notes that I don't know what's going on in children's groups or kindergartens and what it means to take care of children, I really don't think they're entirely true. And when did the technical requirements arise, Madame? Now the projects are being implemented. How do you think, I apologise, through Mr President, for how long do you think a project is being prepared for a children's group? If you think it's just a few weeks, and if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been surprised by the technical requirements, please don't blame anyone who is preparing projects to have enough capacity in children's groups and kindergartens to prepare the project for three years. On the contrary, if there were a period of ten years when the technical requirements were to apply, we could talk about something else, or if there was a requirement that it shouldn't be on some underground floor, or if there was a requirement for a percentage of windows, but not for lighting and sunbathing. That's completely absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u37	Now, Mrs Olga Richterová's point of view. I'll just point out that we have a fixed point at 12 o'clock, so I might have to cut you off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u38	Really only very briefly, but by failing to make the vote, I would just like to make it clear that you are hearing the specific experiences here - how long technical projects have been going on, how long a person has been preparing it. You've heard from Mr. Juříček here that even though you think you have it perfect, hygiene won't approve anyway. And these conditions are supposed to get even tighter, and it's gonna be scary not to be some goddamn big business. So I just want to point out that children's groups are a non-profit service. That's the important thing. I mean, yes, it can be provided by someone who's focused on profit, but he himself can't have any profit from the operation of children's groups. And that's exactly the kind of thing that's very closely guarded and what I'm asking you to remember. In fact, this was also suggested by Mr Juříček that he would only have the costs and no profit from the operation. [[12.00 hours]] And that's what it's all about, taking care of little children pays off to all of us, all of society, to the state budget, because, among other things, one of the conditions for visiting children's groups is to go to work. And as soon as you go to work, you're just taking off and the state budget profites from it, and that's why the contribution to the children's groups comes back. Who cares, I'm happy to provide a one-page economic overview where it's shown that the state, if it gives an adequate contribution to children's groups, will always make money on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-004-343.u39	We only have 12 hours, so I'm going to interrupt this point. Let's open a fixed point. It's a point called
