ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, you have received the House document 7198. And I will ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to present the proposal. Please take the floor. I'll ask the rest of you to remain calm in the hall, please transfer your possible debates to the lobby. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u2	So hello, everyone. Mr President, honourable Members, I am before you today, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Government, asking for an extension of the emergency situation, which the Government has declared by resolution 957 of 30 September 2020 for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health threats in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus in the Czech Republic. This emergency situation has then been extended five times, and today the government before you, the Chamber of Deputies, is again presenting with a new request to extend the emergency situation by 30 days, that is until 21 February 2021. The government is asking for an extension of the emergency situation mainly due to a major turnaround in the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic, which we cannot do without antiepidemic measures, and of course we still have 6 390 of our fellow citizens hospitalized in hospitals, of which 1,100 in intensive care units. And, of course, it is appropriate to thank our paramedics again, who actually fight more than 12 hours a day to save the lives of our fellow citizens. We really need to extend the emergency, especially because we need to take general measures. Flat-out measures. And without that extension of the emergency, we simply can't do it. I think I've represented this place repeatedly, and I think everyone understands how important it is. And, of course, the main debate is about vaccination. And I would repeat at this point what the state of vaccination is. We received 248 625 vaccines from the first deliveries on 26 December of last year until yesterday, when Pfizer's delivery of about 15 percent was delivered, converted into a bottle - five vaccines. And by this morning, according to ISIN, 154 989 of our fellow citizens were inoculated. So our main problem is, and that is the problem of all European states, that we do not have enough vaccines. And Europe has ordered, the European Commission, and we have agreed, all Member States that we will order together, ordered 2 billion vaccines for 477 million European Union citizens, 27 Member States, from five producers. Five manufacturers. Moreover, the European Commission, including the Czech Republic's financial contribution, has paid 3 billion euros, 3 billion euros, to these suppliers. But unfortunately, the demand is huge, and the supplies are slow. As far as Pfizer-BioNTech is concerned, Europe has ordered at least 200 million, then the options 100 million, or 300, and now it has ordered 200 million, so a total of 500 million, and the supplier is arguing now, and yesterday, unfortunately, it announced that deliveries on 28 January will be cut by almost 30%, on 4 February, and on 11 February, even though it was originally promised that it was only short yesterday's delivery. So it's a big problem, and the supplier is arguing with production adjustments so he can increase the capacity we ordered as Europe by 200 million. So, of course, we're trying to deal with this actively. I spoke about it and wrote several times with Chancellor Merkelová, Sebastian Kurz, and we also sent a letter - the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of Austria, the Prime Minister of Greece, the Danish Prime Minister, and I sent a letter to the President of the European Council, where we call for the European Medicines Agency to finally approve the AstraZeneca vaccine. Great Britain has been inoculating AstraZeneca vaccine since 4 January. And AstraZeneca, I have here a whole list of the landscapes that have approved AstraZeneca vaccine: Argentina, Brazil, Dominican Republic, India, Iraq, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Pakistan, and Great Britain will inoculate since 4 January, and we think we really need the European Agency to approve this vaccine, which, of course, would also allow vaccination in our practices, which are doing it now, but of course this vaccine is much more appropriate. Tonight the European Council is, that is, all prime ministers and presidents of Europe, and we will certainly appeal again, as we have called for on December 10th, when we told the President of the European Commission why Great Britain will inoculate Pfizer-BioNTech from December 8th, and we had to wait until the 23rd. 12th and we started vaccinating up to 27. 12., according to the way it was arranged. So that's the main problem. Of course, we had a big debate about the reservation system. This morning, Minister Blatný had a press conference where he announced helpful steps, because it was really very problematic that our seniors over the age of 80 actually had to go into the system repeatedly instead of getting a clear message when they had a deadline. The number of registrations for last night was 173,000, the number of reservations 72 180 and waiting for the reservation 100,000. But it's getting better. And of course, every system like that has its birthing pains. But I think we're dealing with this, and the problems that arose were mainly on the side of vaccination sites, especially in Ostrava, where for incomprehensible reasons they didn't inoculate on Saturday and they were making excuses at headquarters, and it was mainly their problem. So, of course, vaccination is basic. It reminds a little bit of the situation with the masks, although of course it's incomparable, which, yes, actually for the first wave was a problem, a big problem, today we have 80 million in stock, and of course the development with the vaccines in time, I think, will change fundamentally. We ordered almost 20 million vaccines, 20 million. This means that every citizen of our country who shows interest, and I firmly hope that everyone will show interest, will be inoculated. And of course, we now have de facto two systems. That means, the first system, which is more of a non-reservation system, of course, to be inoculated by health professionals and seniors in senior homes, and from 15 January seniors over 80, when I repeatedly appealed to prefer our seniors over 80. They're, I'd say, very important, of course, paramedics who take care of our patients and especially the covid units are definitely the most important. [[9.20 hours]] So we're really doing our best to get through the vaccination. This, of course, requires cooperation with the regions. We have already explained repeatedly that the first deliveries were divided according to the capacity of the vaccination centres, and the vaccination centres have mainly faculty hospitals. Because we have a system of 31 vaccination centers, 19 of which are under the state, under the ministries of health and defence, and the rest are under the county. And Prague as a region has no center, which means everything goes to hospitals that are under the Ministry of Health and under the Central Military Hospital. The cooperation, I think, is good. Not all regions will inoculate the same way, some began to inoculate an integrated rescue system, which was certainly not recommended, but of course the ambulances did. But I certainly want to thank all the captains, especially those who don't do vaccination policies and understand that the fight against the virus isn't about fighting Babiš, it's about fighting for the health of the most endangered groups. And of course I'm communicating with them, and I'm sorry if some of them are communicating over networks or through media, that's not the right communication for me to respond to. I'm available to everyone. We're really trying to connect it. We have now fundamentally changed the system of distribution since this Wednesday, since yesterday, which is based on the calculation of seniors over 65 years, and according to individual regions, these deliveries are now organized. So it's about the vaccines. We certainly need the European Commission or the Agency to approve the other vaccines, and we will certainly do our utmost tonight to make it work somehow. Our problem is, of course, that Pfizer-BioNTech is an American company, those contracts have been concluded by the European Commission and we must proceed together. On this occasion, I would like to reiterate my position on the Russian and Chinese vaccines. It's a big debate, and I think it's pretty clear. I was talking about it with Chancellor Merkelová, who had the Presidency. She clearly said that if Russia wants to deliver the vaccine to Europe or China, it has the opportunity to ask the European Medicines Agency for approval, of course. So it's clear that if this goes well, there's no political approach. If the vaccines are okay, then, of course, Europe, the European Agency has no problem with that. So it is not about trying to do this, we are mainly trying to make Europe have its own production, and in February the production of a European vaccine should be put into operation so that we do not simply have to depend on non-European suppliers. But, of course, that takes longer time and it's not on the table. So once again, the Russian and Chinese vaccines, if they ask EMA, of course, will be objectively assessed. I have noted that in Serbia they have received a vaccine from both China and Russia, of course the feedback will be interesting for Europe. This is the most important thing, but, of course, in the meantime, we have a big problem here, and that's the British mutation of coronavirus. We mainly communicate with the nearest neighbours, that is, Austria and Germany. We are very detailed - and this will certainly be discussed by the Minister, about the sequencing as the virus occurs in our population. The virus isn't more dangerous, but it's spreading faster, and it's a problem. Of course, our neighbors respond and, for example, neighbouring Bavaria introduced an obligation to wear respirators in shops and transport, and of course the situation around us is still very difficult. For example, Saxony has imposed a ban on departing from its residence for more than 15 km. There's a curfew in Paris from 6:00 p.m., and it's also strictly observed. I'm not sure if there's a situation with us, but I think it's the other way around. So, of course, we always face criticism, but we simply cannot do it alone without cooperation with our citizens. I'm sure I'm sorry to see everyone going on business trips to Spindl and other mountain resorts, of course, there are open restaurants in those hotels, and of course we support them, but certainly - other examples where some restaurant owners protest and actually still don't understand how dangerous the virus is. Last time I talked about it, on Sunday, about the case of a 50-year-old person who was against masks who didn't really wear drapes, and finally, luckily, they saved him, but he almost died. So these are cases that are very warning, and we'd like everyone to understand. I think most of our population understand that. And most importantly, why we're asking for an extension of the emergency. Because that's just what our health service needs. We have a large number of hospitalized people, and this time the minister has made it clear that we have to wait for the number of hospitalized people to drop to 3,000 and to 450 in the ICUs. We need to be very careful about the British mutation. Of course, I have a request to ask you to accept our proposal to extend the emergency by 30 days. We would like to ask, if possible, to avoid shortening the emergency situation, that is, of course, happening regularly, but the situation is still serious and now I think it is very important. Of course, we can discuss what happened at Christmas, what happened after dispersing 3. 12. why it grew so strongly, like the mobility transfer and other things, but now the moment we must not waste, and now there is a chance, of course, at the same time as the vaccination, to manage the situation better. So we have a duty to protect our fellow citizens from the virus, we have a responsibility here, but I think we may be a little bit responsible here, too, in the House deciding to extend the emergency situation. So I'd like to appeal to civil responsibility, to human consideration. Try to understand the situation and support our request. In the light of the above, the Government is seeking pursuant to Article 6 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the approval of the extension of the emergency period until 21 February 2021. I thank you for your consideration and possible responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I open the debate, I recall that according to § 109m para. It is not possible to apply factual remarks in the debate when the Rules of Procedure act on a short-term proposal to express consent to an extension of the emergency situation. The Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to the Members responsible for bringing the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter. I am now opening the debate. [[This is Mrs Majerová Zahradníková.]] Madame to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u4	Good day, ladies and gentlemen. I just noticed that last night's vote on food self-sufficiency - it was the number 51 vote on quotas - I'm high, and I've been delayed. Well, I don't want to question the vote, but I'd like it to be recorded for the tape screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I am therefore opening the debate, and before the beginning of the meeting, Minister Blatný made himself known to me in writing. Mr. Secretary, please take your word for it. President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself, also registered in writing before the beginning of the meeting. This is a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr President, Members, I would like to add the Prime Minister's introductory words to the Minister's view of the Ministry of Health and the specific data you certainly need to make the right and responsible decision. You got them in an extensive form in advance, but I consider it my duty to introduce you to them. There is still a very strong spread of Coronavirus COVID-19 in the Czech Republic, and the objective fact is that the state of the epidemic in the Czech Republic is still at risk. We are registering a large load of virus in the population and mainly, and this is a significant, significant intervention in potentially vulnerable groups, among other things due to Christmas holidays and the New Year's period. As a result, there are still high numbers of patients in hospitals and mortality - respectively, to be more precise, the number of people who had a positive test for coronavirus at the time they died - is still small, over 150 people a day. Why is an emergency necessary for further management of the epidemic, why is the government asking you repeatedly to extend it today? As has already been said, without emergency conditions, we cannot take effective anti-epidemic measures - I will now stress these two words - effectively and quickly, especially measures to reduce population mobility. It is these measures that are absolutely crucial. For our common information, when the emergency situation ceases to apply, we need to return fans and beds to state reserves soon under existing legislation, the possibility of deploying soldiers in hospitals in the form we do today will be limited by the use of an integrated rescue system to ensure vaccination, the transport of vaccines and so on. And as I said before, the provision of antiepidemic measures will be significantly reduced. Risk development, as I describe it, is not only in the Czech Republic. With varying intensity and at different stages, it takes place in all the countries of Europe, and all the states provide and provide similar measures in order to prevent the flooding of their health system. The Czech Republic has a great advantage in this, our health system is one of the most robust in Europe. Yet, as we all see, he is now in trouble. States have different legislations, but most of them use some of the equivalents of what we call an emergency situation in our country, such as the law-set central lockdown or the so-called antiepidemic state and so on. The strategies adopted are very similar and always lead to a central restriction on population mobility. Therefore, countries typically close sports sites, place of assembly, close gastro-operations, restrict retail trade, set curfews. In our country, we have no choice but to do this in the course of an emergency, although it is probably good about a legal regulation that would allow all of this to be done in the future, now to act. It is precisely because this epidemic may not be the last. All European countries face a high level of disease. The objective reality is that the risk of an epidemic is really taking place everywhere. And if I show this picture with color coding, then we see that the whole of Europe is essentially the same color. [[shows]] Why it is necessary what I have talked about - nationwide or if you want to centrally restrict the mobility of the population. It is precisely because the restriction of mobility, along with the limitation of the frequency of interpersonal contacts, leads to a slowdown in the spread of the disease. Although it is relatively primitive and a number of people restricting the way, there is no other way. The epidemiological situation is constantly showing the risk values I was talking about, and the need for very rapid intervention cannot be ruled out. On the one hand, we are now at risk of spreading a new virus mutation that has up to 40 percent faster spread, on the other hand, there is still a great burden on hospitals, and it may be necessary to react very quickly and we will have to have the capacity of the health system to respond to this reaction. And that's not just what we're worried about, this is the fear of all the surrounding countries. This gives rise to the main reasons for the request for an extension of the emergency, i.e. a still strong community spread with the risk of a new mutation, we are currently considering the British. But it has to be said that viruses and priori mutates constantly and mutations can also occur. The high number of infected health workers, which reduces the capacity of our health system, and the disease of a large number of vulnerable persons, is, among other things, a reason to prioritize the vaccinations referred to by the Prime Minister, that is why we are beginning to vaccinate the older fellow citizens first. Because they're the ones that are most at risk. Fortunately, the spread of the disease in the Czech Republic is currently slowing down, but we are still talking about many thousands of newly infected daily. Returning to increasing dynamics in case the curve were reversed again would be very fast. The numbers of newly diagnosed cases are still several times higher than the internationally recommended safe limits, namely 100 per 100 thousand inhabitants per 14 days. These are data that we follow, which is governed by the Kochův Institute, which governs Israel and many other similar institutions with which we cooperate on a regular basis, and we consult data not only through the European Disease Control Agency, the so-called ECDC. For your information, the capture of newly diagnosed patients in the Czech Republic currently exceeds this recommended minimum amount tenfold. It is true, and I say it repeatedly, and I insist that it is also because the number of tests carried out in the Czech Republic is high, often higher than in many other countries. But even if we share the number that we have with us, even if we take only half of these newly diagnosed patients into account and approach the level of countries that are testing far less than we are, we will still cross over many times what is considered a safe border. The proportion of non-testing hospitalized patients is still high - the 50 percent circus - and they get to hospitals quickly afterwards. This is one of those newly introduced antiepidemic score parameters, and in this situation, for example, the virus mutation with 40 percent faster spread would mean an almost unmanageable risk to hospitals. We are doing everything we can to have detailed control of this information. The State Health Institute, in cooperation with the network of academic institutions, cooperates and monitors this problem, increasing significantly the number of so-called sequences carried out that are able to determine exactly what mutation is involved. But that doesn't mean we're just gonna keep the virus from spreading through this close surveillance. There's a need for action. [[9.40 hours]] The risk also results from a high number of vulnerable patients. I already mentioned it. We know that at the time of peak peaks it was up to 3,000 seniors newly diagnosed daily. At present, this figure has fallen to half, for example 19. 1. it was about 1,600 newly diagnosed seniors. But it's still a very high number. And we know that 30 percent of these people are likely to end up in a medical facility. Let me give you one hypothetical example, which I shared with some of you, what would happen if we suddenly completely canceled all the measures. I know it's not gonna happen, but just to make us realize it. Even if we focus only on the oldest ones, only those who are 80 or more who are about 400,000 in this country, the moment they get sick without measures, then 30% of them would most likely end up in hospital within three weeks. 30 percent of the 400,000 are roughly 130,000 people. Twenty percent of these people would require intensive care. That's 26,000 people. There are about 45 000 beds and 6 000 intensive care beds throughout the Czech Republic. If what I'm saying is hypothetically occurring, within three weeks the capacity of this country's entire health system is threefold exceeded. That wouldn't be a problem for those people who have coronavirus, that would be a problem for all of us, because at that moment for all the other people who need different care, suddenly there wouldn't be beds in hospitals. It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen because of what we all do together. But it's kind of an illustration of how we're going to realize together that we still have to act constantly and quite forcefully, even if it hurts us all. I see the problems that this raises in a large part of our fellow citizens, I do not make them any less difficult, just please also see the view of the Ministry of Health. The risk index of the antiepidemic system, which evaluates how epidemics behave in the population, is currently around 70, 73 points out of 100, which is still relatively high. And all the parameters I was talking about are reflected in those risk points: a high proportion of hospitalized without testing and tracing, a high number of infected senior groups and so on. But this index is just one of the many parameters that expert groups use when recommending to the Minister of Health. Because, and I'll be very clear, it's not me who decides. This is a collective decision by expert groups, which the Minister of Health then transfers to the government, and it decides. So this risk index is one of the main ones, not the only and automatic reason to make decisions. No less significant indicator is, for example, the burden of hospitals. And from the way our system works, we know that it is essential to reduce the number of hospitalizations below 3,000, and only the Czech Republic can provide full care outside of covido patients, so-called deferred, suspensive, elective care. It's still a heavy burden on hospitals, I'm talking about it repeatedly, and it's not because I just want to repeat myself. This is to stress the importance of this information. Although the total numbers of hospitalized patients started to decline for the first time this week over a long period of time, daily new income to hospitals is still around 500. The further development of hospital needs is therefore a risk and the number of hospitalized patients is still high, especially in some regions. Even this week, for example, it was necessary to deal with the extremely overloaded Karlovy Vary Region, which no longer managed to transport patients to other regions, to provide air rescue services so that patients from this region could be transported in time, with less capacity than others. 19. 1. there were still about 6,600 people in hospitals. It's a little bit less today, but we're still talking about numbers of over 6,000 and numbers of over 1,000 in intensive care units. That's why we're asking for an emergency. And since we know that the decline to the 3,000 will last at least three weeks, we are asking you to give us an emergency again for a month. From the updated data available to us, it follows that the decrease cannot be expected to be faster than about 1,200 per week. We currently have over 6,000 people with covid in hospitals. So the four-week demand isn't virtual, it's got clear data, it's got clear backgrounds. Last but not least, it should be stressed that over 5,000 health workers, almost 1,000 doctors, 2,500 nurses, and over 2,000 other health workers are currently positive for this disease and cannot carry out their work. In terms of mortality in people with covid, the result of a large number of vulnerable people is that there is still a relatively high number of those who are dying with this disease. And in order to reduce this mortality, it is essential to maintain existing measures aimed at reducing population mobility, reducing the number of risky social contacts. And everything is incorporated, among other things, into the newly prepared table of the antiepidemic system, where the Ministry of Health will propose that it start to apply from 1 February. You were introduced to her in the form of e-mail communication. I would like to thank you here for your attention regarding the presentation of the data. Now, let me sum up what I am asking you to do as Minister of Health. I'm asking you to extend the emergency for 30 days. I ask you to have a joint discussion on how to ensure legislative implementation of the necessary measures outside the emergency situation in the future. I'm asking you to protect our health system, which needs at least three weeks to recover from the worst. What am I, of course, as Minister of Health? I see the difficult situation of many of our fellow citizens, whom protection measures make life clearly difficult. I feel the need to talk about the conditions for those who are restricted and affected by the conavir and its measures. What do I see as a way out of this situation? In particular, vaccinations, which we have already discussed here, which will take a while, because we do not have as many vaccines as we would like and need. I also see the willingness to maintain protective measures until the vaccination starts to work. I also see a responsible approach to myself and to those who lie in hospitals, about testing themselves and about quarantine and isolation and compliance with these measures. And finally, what can I offer you as Minister of Health? Willing to discuss future legislative arrangements for similar situations, discussion with all about setting protection measures on the basis of expert arguments, support for the expansion of antigenic testing prospectively also in businesses and sharing data on epidemics and vaccinations on a regular basis so that you can all see it, and fully transparently with the maintenance of all necessary legislative standards on the protection of personal data, as the epidemic in the Czech Republic is taking place and how vaccination is taking place, which is the only way to resolve this situation definitively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. And now, with Prime Minister Pekarová Adamová's priority right, Vice-President Okamura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, may I present the opinion of our club on the request of the government to extend the emergency situation. We have been living with an emergency situation in the Czech Republic for about 180 days. Some entrepreneurs have had their establishments closed for five months, they can't make money even if they'd like to. The minister here in his application said that he was asking for our support, and he said a number of reasons. And there is one important thing that needs to be pierced: you ask us, dear government, for joint responsibility. I am convinced that even you feel that when someone is about to take responsibility for something, they must also be part of the solution, there must be an opportunity for him to hear his suggestions on how to deal with the situation, so that fair discussions are conducted with him, so that it is not just for the eyes here in front of the cameras, in the media and in conversations. Unfortunately, this is happening primarily. We learn from the media that we do nothing as opposition or that we only criticize, but that our proposals, which we actually put forward with iron regularity week after week, will be kept secretly silent. These proposals will often prove to be better than your own solution, which improves what we already wanted. Let me give you an example specifically with the antiepidemic system. The fact that he was born in the first place was precisely on the impulses of the opposition. We pointed out that he had his deaf spots right after his performance, and we also said right away, where we could see room for improvement, we introduced our alternative. Eventually, it happens, but it happens in weeks and weeks after we've come up with it ourselves. And I could give you dozens of these, maybe we could get into hundreds by now. Those proposals, which we have presented over the last ten months, really already concern both the economy, health, education, culture and many other smaller areas and go into hundreds. And I want to put it on one of these, I think, a clear illustrative example. Imagine a situation where on the road to a really foggy day, to a dense fog, on a road covered with ice, no one doubts that the situation is not easy, two ambulances enter. An ambulance is run by Andrej with a crew of Karel and two Jan. Petr, Marian, and Markéta are in charge of the second ambulance. And the other ambulance is connected to the first one. The radio connection is possible, so there's a discussion going on, and the ambulance at the head of Petr says, "You, Andrej, don't drive so fast, turn on the fog lamps and go a little different way, there's already sprinkled, there's already a sprinkler. Andrejův's ambulance is going down the road, no matter what the advice, it doesn't turn on the fog lamps, but it also sweeps away a few cars and causes a car accident involving several victims. But then Andrej comes out of that ambulance and says, "I'm the best driver in the world." I didn't get any advice from you. I'm not responsible for this at all. Come carry her with me. You would probably see for yourself that in such a case - and it seems absurd to you here, you laugh at it, yes, it is - so take responsibility for the accident that was caused by someone who didn't take advice, you probably wouldn't want to. And in this situation, we've been here for months. We've really been coming here for months with these proposals, and we've only been hearing from the speaker's desk for months now or in various debates and discussions in the media: we'd like to pull this one rope, let's be on the same boat, let's shake hands. - And we're serving it. And the other hand is either stuck in the pocket, or it's held up like this forefinger and pointed out, well, you're doing everything wrong here, just criticizing, we're the best. - It can't work like that. It can't work either by just lying. And that's what's happening. Dozens of lies that are proven would be found again. Lately, one in particular. As part of the last wave of closure of businesses, especially gas undertakings, it was promised to all restaurants, cafes, bars and other establishments in this part of the service that they would actually receive a very generous compensation. I have an article from the iDNES on December 14th - you can't consider it a press that doesn't seem to be inclined to you. So it is said that Mr Havlíček has promised to compensate the rent, that they will be 100 per cent this time, that it will be compensated in full for all these operators. That was half of December, please nicely. Where did we get to in reality? A month later, January 15, COVID was actually written out - Rent, his third challenge. What's in it? Payment of 50 per cent. Then why is this coming out of Mr. Havlíček's mouth at all? Too bad he's not here right now. Why isn't he telling the truth from the start? Keep an eye on the Ministry's website. This is one of the concrete, quite clear and beautifully proven lies. Still, it's worth saying them to him. Yet this propaganda goes on. We learned from the Prime Minister and from Mr Havlíček that some entrepreneurs are even complaining already, one might say, that the compensation is so generous that they get more than if they were earning. I'm sure we all remember that, too. They weren't able to say any particular pub, any particular restaurant. But those who are dissatisfied, and rightly so, are indeed a huge number. Because I know that Mr. Babiš, even though he doesn't sit here again, likes everything on paper, and he doesn't like the electronic systems so much, so I put it on paper. This came to me, please, nicely, in the last two weeks, whether in an e-mail or on social media in the mailboxes. [[It shows a long printed paper reaching to the ground.]] Please, Mr. Babiš has it here, he likes it this way. So these are the reactions from the terribly satisfied restaurants, the accommodation service operators, the lifters and others who praise the help. Please, a lot of them didn't get this help until December. Those are real stories. Many have been given a complete fraction of what is presented in the media that they should receive, and many have already shut down and have no strength to open up. The cotton wool that has often been mentioned here from the mouth of some ministers has simply come to an end. In a situation like this, if you don't let us handle this, if you ignore our proposals, you can't expect us to support an extension of the emergency situation. We realise that the situation in health care and hospitals is difficult. But it's not just about Minister Blatný, whom I want to appreciate for the will that he finally wants to meet with us so that we can actually discuss. Let's see what this brings and how effective it will be. I am glad that, in the end, our efforts to change vaccination registrations are being answered, that our calls for more transparent publication on a daily basis of how many people have been vaccinated, etc. I want to appreciate it. But it's pitifully little from the entire government that he's asking for. It's not just the Minister of Health. Poor guy's sitting here on his own now. Where is Minister Havlíček, who, in this very way, is clashing with a lot of lies that are false? Why can't you answer the question here? Explain? To explain it to people who have relied on this help and waited, and now they're extremely upset. I'd say the dirty word, too, but I'm not gonna do it. They're extremely upset that promises pass with reality. Of course, such people approach various desperate actions. I don't want to justify it, but I want to say that we need to see it in the context that leads to it. And believe me, they wouldn't do it either in a normal situation, but desperate people just walk into desperate actions. Therefore, we cannot support the emergency situation and we will not actively vote for it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u9	I thank you and please now, Vice-President Okamura is registered with priority rights. I don't see him, so with the club's opinion, Mr... he's coming, so... okay, Mr. Vice President, you have the floor. Mr Ondráček will be prepared with the opinion of the KSČM club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already declared several times, the SPD will not support repeated extension of the emergency situation, restrictions on freedoms, the destruction of the economy and, above all, damage to the health of citizens and health care. We have repeatedly proposed to the government since last spring to implement an amendment to the Public Health Act in order to ensure protection of risk groups and health systems without declaring emergency conditions. The government of the YES movement, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, does not hear. And the only plan we see is an endless emergency. Unfortunately, the result is constant chaos, people are losing their jobs, falling into debt, and rising people's health problems with other diagnoses than covid. Moreover, it is becoming increasingly clear that the new virus is becoming a dangerous pretext for opaque destruction of freedoms and large parts of the economy. I'll be specific. Unemployment is rising. For example, more than 100,000 people in the Czech Republic interrupted their trade, which is 8.5,000 more than in 2019. In 2020, 3 3 343 people started business less in the Czech Republic than in the previous year, which is also at least in the last four years. Crazy government measures cost the public cash register crazy money and the huge debt of the Czech Republic has already increased. And I'm sorry, alluding to the fact that other countries in Europe have debts over their heads, while we're in the swamp just for the neck, and that's why we can get even more indebted, they're really at the limit of idiocy. Almost all the planet's countries are in huge debt. All governments continue to borrow with a reminder that somewhere there is someone more indebted, but one day their economies will collapse. Greece has experienced it and other countries will experience it. And as far as Greece is concerned, believe that the crisis did not end there, it was just pushed away. The solution to getting out of the crisis is not increasing debts or corruption and non-systemic subsidies. If the economy doesn't work, there won't be money for health care or social services. And that needs to be emphasized, and it needs to be realized, because when the economy doesn't work, it's gonna be too late. What is the solution? The solution is to return to normal life and relax the conditions for work and life for most of the population that is not threatened by the virus - experts say that it is up to 83% of Czech citizens - with basic measures. With basic measures. And let's focus on protecting the risk groups. And what does the government do? The opposite. I agree with experts who say that the quarantine includes sick people, not health. Immunologist Jiří Šinkora says that in the recent past mankind has faced four similar coronaviruses to the current one. And the current one, according to him, has the current consequences because people live longer than before and are more susceptible to the disease. So once again, the vast majority of the population that is not threatened, let us live and work on basic measures and focus - the government should make maximum efforts to protect and care for risk groups, which, unfortunately, the government does not do and solves everything across the board. The only thing that can be done, as I said, is to ensure protection and care for vulnerable groups of citizens and to provide them with all that is necessary. It is also necessary to develop covid medications, it is also necessary to work on the medication that will treat him. And we all already know what cellular immunity is, which the organism builds in childhood and youth, and to create which, on the other hand, it takes contact with viruses and bacteria at a young age. So school closures and restrictions on the movement of children and young people are counterproductive because they prevent the building of the strongest natural cellular immunity that no vaccine can replace. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister of Health Jan Blatný introduced last week's registration system and vaccination strategy. This material comes both in a time slip and is also dependent on the availability of vaccines for defined population groups with the aim of inoculating at least 70 per cent of the total population. The first phase is to be carried out according to government material in accordance with the established priority of the most risk groups, i.e. the group of seniors 80+, seniors in social services facilities and staff caring for them, clients in homes for disabled people and relief services, and health professionals who preferably provide care to patients with COVID-19 disease. The scheme is complicated and hard to understand for ordinary pensioners without Internet knowledge. In addition, the system collapsed after commissioning on 15 January. On behalf of the SPD, I stress once again that we insist on volunteering for vaccination and reject discrimination against people who do not want to be vaccinated. Citizens in risk groups who voluntarily want vaccination should be vaccinated quickly. However, if vaccines are lacking due to the European Union and we do not know how many species we will have in the coming months, the logistics and methodology of the vaccination strategy on water is. At the same time, enough vaccination material is needed, I am referring to needles, syringes and, in particular, the capacity to carry out vaccinations. However, they are not in all regions and state health establishments. In the opinion of the SPD, the practical doctors in the system, in the system that knows their patients, have the conditions for vaccination and not the government to create alternative, parallel registration methods, when data on their insured persons, for example, have health insurance companies. In our opinion, in the opinion of the SPD, the government must also vote for simple and rapid methods of supporting businessmen, entrepreneurs and employees affected by government measures. As far as businessmen and entrepreneurs are concerned, such support would ultimately support their employees. The aid should be fixed without unnecessary bureaucracy and using the data available to the State. It is true that one who helps quickly helps twice. For example, it is possible to provide assistance - and we have proposed this - by a percentage, for example between 60 and 70 per cent of the difference in the amount of sales declared in the tax return for the years 2019 and 2020, that is, covering fixed costs - I am not saying at all that the State should cover profit, but the important thing is to keep jobs, keep companies from failing and letting go at all costs. This model is applied in developed Western countries. This is a quick and easy-to-control method - of course, because it is based on their official tax returns - which will rightly prefer entrepreneurs reporting and taxing their incomes. Here I would also like to emphasise, as far as employees are concerned, that I am glad that, thanks to the SPD members' votes, the Antivirus programme works, we support it, it works and it works, I hope, and we support the cursarbeit, because we want the promotion of job retention. We want jobs to be encouraged so that unemployment does not rise. And in general, the economic premise is that keeping existing jobs will come cheaper than paying unemployment aid or creating new jobs. That is why we will continue to support and promote these programmes in order to maintain jobs and give businesses and employees job security. [[10.10 hours]] A serious problem to which the government is silent is that government restrictions are directly responsible for the record increase in covid-related deaths. It's completely forgotten. More and more doctors point out that people who have been forced to neglect, for example, preventive examinations and the treatment of serious diseases are dying because of government measures. Yes, I'm talking about cancer, I'm talking about cardiovascular diseases, etc. And that's the problem. This is a problem that needs to be addressed. Dear government, for this reason too, you cannot simply appeal to health protection, because at this time government measures, on the contrary, threaten the health of many citizens directly. After all, we know that at the end of winter, the time comes when the number of patients will begin to decline overall, and spring will end the current state. I understand that if the government can maintain restrictions, it will be able to give rise to a decline in the infected, sick, and dying for its merit. But we all know that it isn't and it isn't. The sooner you get your life back to normal, the better for all of us. And believe that it will be better for the government, because repairing the damage will take years. Dear Prime Minister, give people the freedom of both personal and economic. For the reasons set out above, the members of the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u11	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur for his performance. Zdeněk Ondráček, President of the ODS Petr Fiala, will now take the position of the KSČM MP. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues, as the President has been told, I come before you with the opinion of the KSČM club on the Government's request to extend the emergency situation. I listened very carefully to the opening words of the Prime Minister and the following speech by the Minister of Health. Many things can be agreed with, for example. with the statement by the Minister of Health that some things cannot be done in the legislative setting and mentioned the Administration of State Material Reserves, Beds, Fans, mentioned the deployment of forces and resources of the Army of the Czech Republic or. members of the Security Corps. Basically, he said that the only objective of continuing to prolong the emergency situation was to reduce the mobility of the population. In this statement, I would always expect that when the government comes forward and asks for an extension of the emergency situation, it will present a series of measures that need to be taken between the request and the expiry of the deadline, and that these measures will also be of a legislative technical nature, and not that we will be listening here to the Government member's statement that the legislative setting is not in order and that there would be a need to do something about it. Well, we know that, so let's do it and let's create working groups and get to that. In fact, it seems to me that limiting the mobility of the population proposed by the Ministry of Health is basically from a fairy tale when General x knows the only rule: sacrifice the left wing. Yet General Y knows the rule of another: he sacrifices both wings. But I don't want to sacrifice either the left wing or the right wing. I want to deal with the situation in some way. And I think that most of us here know that it's not gonna be easy and that it's not a matter of a week or a month, but maybe it's a question of a whole year or a whole year. a longer period. And that our goal should be to create such a legal environment to learn with this coronavirus or with any other mutation of it to live and get the situation under control and, of course, the economy and other things related to it. At the same time, let me thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for all the meetings and all the information that we have been passing on over the last few days and hours, because if other members of the government had worked this way, it would certainly have been for praise. But there are ministers that we haven't seen in months, and maybe we don't even know what they already look like. You, Minister of Health, can't say that. Thank you for everything we've discussed in the last few days and weeks. I'll get back to the important one. There are still reasons for assessing the request for an extension of emergency status are health, legal, economic, social, but also political. Medical reasons. Their assessment was made by the Minister of Health. What is the state and development, we all see for ourselves. I think there is a close link between social and economic reasons, or areas, if you like. We should demand statistical and professionally-founded explanations as to why, when everything is closed everywhere, this development is. There's obviously a mistake. The claim that this is not the case in other neighbouring countries is not enough for me and is not enough for most people. I'll say it hard: I don't care what the Němec do. We live in the Czech Republic, we are Čech, and what we do, we will have it. We can't make excuses for the Němec doing it the same way. The vaccination is not all-savable, as the Minister of Health informs it. And certainly not with the knowledge that the Prime Minister introduced us to the development of the reduction in supplies from Pfizer. Of course, we can ask ourselves why the government is no longer involved in the supply of other vaccines, either from Russia or from China. Why are we waiting for the Němec again? Why can't we go our own way, like the Maďar did? Do we care more about our citizens? I think it might be. What does the government do for it? He is silent, blaming the cursed and bureaucratic European Union that the Russian and Chinese vaccine is not approved by the EMA, that is the European agency, and similar excuses. So what are we paying the entire State Institute for Drug Control for? If the Prime Minister at least answered the phone and called Rusko, but unfortunately, in this case, it's futile, it's futile. I will leave the medical aspect because I am not here on the strong floor and I am sure that you are here some colleagues of health professionals, doctors are considerably better informed. I am based on the data provided by the Minister and the Ministry of Health, and I am working with this data. For me, the legal aspect is also important. The analysis for and against, which I mentioned in my last appearance in the extension of the emergency situation in December, has essentially changed nothing. At my request, the Central Crisis Staff, of which I am a member, has provided me with some of the information necessary to assess the request for an extension of the emergency situation in this request. So at this point, I can say with full seriousness that I can imagine running the state without a state of emergency. But - but - there is a need for cooperation between the government and the removal of some small things. Until then, we need to hold the emergency. I'll discuss the arguments. The order of work, students, was mentioned here. The compulsory work obligation for students was completed by Government resolution 1336 of 2020 and all work orders were terminated. Currently, only students are ordered to work... or to say the decision of the Governor of the South Moravian Region and date 14. 1. 190 work orders were issued. Elsewhere in the Republic, students work on the basis of agreements or/or agreements. other working conditions. And the situation is manageable. [[10.20 hours]] The second reason is the deployment of forces and means of the Army of the Czech Republic. Currently 577 soldiers are deployed with 59 pieces of technology. For the complexity of the information, I also provide the deployment of forces and means of the security forces. Police of the Czech Republic: 500 police officers earmarked for tracking and 200 police officers for assistance in hospitals and vaccination centres. Current deployment is dealt with from day to day according to requirements and needs. Fire Department: 825 firefighters deployed. They work in collection teams, hospitals, social services, help with tracking, but also provide logistical activities for crematoriums in the Moravian-Silesian Region. And, of course, they're disinfecting. Let us also remember the Customs Administration. It's the one that separates 49 customs officers for the tracking. I asked the Government of the Czech Republic for an opinion on the possibility of deploying forces and funds of the Czech Army without declaring an emergency. I do not yet have this government's position available, but I believe that this should be possible. We know that soldiers can help the Police of the Czech Republic even without emergency conditions. Some of the activities that soldiers now do, such as ambulance drivers, could be done by members of the security forces. They can drive just as well under lighthouses because they have the authority to do so. It would certainly be possible to involve voluntary firefighters and ensure wage reimbursements, such as in fires or in the destruction of natural disasters, when so-called emergency situations are declared only in the regions. If the government wanted to, there would be a solution. And if we need minor legislative amendments to the law, we have a state of legislative emergency declared by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and we could address these legislative issues here, as the Minister of Health also says. The third reason is the purchases mentioned for the Administration of State Material Reserves. Without emergency conditions, they must take place under the Public Procurement Act, which is in the Czech legal environment for months to years. But there is a need for operational activity here. The claims that there are exceptions in the law and that this could also be applied in an extensive interpretation of the law are nice, but who would like to be dragged around police and courts for months and years in this legal jungle? Ve However, for over six months now, the House press number 908, which has dealt with this, has been in the House. We have therefore asked the government to include this and to discuss it urgently. But I personally do not have the basically confirmed information here in the Chamber of Deputies on a microphone or a written statement by the representatives of the Government whether and when it will happen. This printing is even designed in accordance with § 90 para. A group of Members from the Committee on Security took part in it. And I think we are able to reach a political agreement here and approve this proposal. This is essentially a purchase option for the Administration of State Material Reserves even after the end of the emergency period, in this case we have proposed six months as a group of Members. If the government wishes, it can do so and finally tell us whether this House's press 908 will be discussed. The fourth point, which is very important, is the operation of the state's key infrastructure. [[He's knocking on the speaker's desk.]] I took the liberty of knocking on wood. This works on the basis of the responsibility and self-sacrifice of employees, who must be publicly thanked for it. If politicians don't get involved, it stays that way. That's basically what makes it squeamish. We have electricity, hot and cold water and, of course, internet connection. If any of this had stopped working or if it hadn't been oil and gasoline, that would have been the right thing to do. For many addicts, return to the Stone Age. And that it can happen, there's no need to discuss it. Such a blackout, he would have made us many - many - wrinkles on our foreheads. But don't even think about it. Maybe try to find out what the situation is in neighbouring Austria. In addition to legal and medical reasons, medical reasons are economic, social and I dare say mental. The effects on the economy, but especially on the population's psyche, are huge and long-term - I repeat - unsustainable. Total closure is nonsense. So far, no credible facts have been presented where there is the greatest contagion. Based on recent developments, we can assume that it is in families - Christmas leave, in workplaces, and then in places with high concentration of people - supermarkets, mountain huts, but also recreational resorts. In that last area, the state and its ability to control and enforce its regulations are absolutely failing. This leads to a weakening of the state's legal role. While police write dozens and hundreds of reports of violations, they end up in the trash with the administrative authority of the municipality with extended scope and hygiene. I'm fully convinced of that. I asked for statistics, but I don't have them. In the January part, when there were about 15,000 reports and then the decision of the court, all these ended up in a shredder in the trash. I asked for statistics, but I don't have them. So far, I only have them from the police, for which I am publicly thanking the President of the Police for being so operational. If the government wants to rely only on the votes of the KSČM again, we demand these measures. First, the return of first-degree pupils to school benches, but preferably also pupils of the last years of primary schools and seniors. Reason for this proposal. It has not yet been confirmed if you wish to prove that these children are at risk, or that they would be signless carriers. Their return to school benches is more than desirable for reasons... And perhaps there is no need to state the reasons. We will also remove the payment of the infirmary to their parents and they can return to the work process, where they are often very missing and are replaced by, for example, members of the Army of the Czech Republic and members of the security forces. The second requirement is to set new rules for ski resorts and accommodation services. A brief explanation again. Christmas holidays and the end of the year, but basically all the previous weekends are full of tourists from all over the Republic on our mountains. I know this personally because I only live 20 kilometers from Pec pod Sněžkou. It is perhaps another clear proof that government-set rules of closed ski resorts and accommodation services simply do not work. People, but often whole families who don't know each other, find a loophole and rent whole objects. They even created half-closed Facebook groups where people pass information on how to circumvent government regulations. Just say, maybe prove my own statement that I'm at the home office. Alcohol doesn't sell here in restaurants, but through the window, or at the cottage they pour into a thermos. The police are short again in the controls. So the result is that the accommodation provider at the guest house or hotel, which remains vacant, must pay all advances on heat and energy, but receives compensation only for employees. On the other hand, the one who owns the apartment has increased the prices to several times and earns, but only in his own pocket, when the state will not see a crown in taxes. Skiareals - It's a chapter for itself. At the time of the closed areas, operators expensively produced artificial snow with a vision that they would start around mid-January, as originally promised, but instead of skiers, there are only hundreds of sledgers on the slopes. I'm not even gonna talk about hygiene, 'cause all you have to do is look in the woods right next to the piste. Where else to go when everything's closed and the drinks from the window are so tasty in this winter? It is therefore appropriate for the government to clearly state whether it is ready to open the ski resorts this winter season, whether it will allow their operators to pay for all the items they have to pay for - land leases, operators, employees and so on - or whether the state will let them go bankrupt. [[10.30 hours]] Skiareals are not businessmen like any other, who even with a blackout of two or three months work and operate for another nine months, or if you want ten, when I was talking about two or three. Ski resorts have to work in winter and during the whole winter season they have to earn money for remaining operations in the period outside the main tourist season, which is cold. It doesn't exactly rip out over the summer. Let's talk about this. Tell the operators clearly under what conditions you are able and willing to open up on 29 January of this year, when students and students begin spring break, and what conditions they will comply with, including those sanitary ones. Including the hygienic ones, because they're, let's say, pathetic and could lead to a different epidemic than the coronavirus. I think they already have hepatitis in South Bohemia. The third point for us is the adoption of the necessary legislation. I mentioned House press number 908, and we want information here on the microphone or any other form where this item will be included in this Chamber of Deputies' meeting, and when we will be able to discuss it. I have talked about other legislative areas. And we are ready, and I can afford to say that I have also spoken to a number of colleagues from other political parties who are ready to participate in the preparation of legislation and the elimination of certain shortcomings, for example in the Act of 219/1990 Coll., on Armed Forces, and where we could address the deployment of forces and resources of the Army of the Czech Republic. So we want to discuss with the government as well as with other opposition parties the opening of shops and most services - hairdressing, pedicure, shoe repair, clothing repair, etc. It is not our condition for our consent to prolonging the emergency situation, but allow me to briefly justify why we want to return this to some normal situation. It is absolutely beyond the logic that people can go to buy drug goods, household goods, but also ammunition, new school supplies or children's shoes, but they can no longer buy winter clothes or shoes for us adults. He must have been a very big thinker at the Ministry of Industry and Trade who invented this! And I'd like someone from the Ministry of Industry and Trade to explain it. However, the Minister, as usual, is not present. I wonder what kind of assessment this child's shoe is for buying. Is it the age of a child or the size of a shoe? Because I know kids who have legs bigger than their parents at 15 years of age, these little kayaks, and then I know grown people, and here I get a nice smile from a colleague of the SPD with a tiny figure who may be buying bigger girls, or he has very small legs where a lot of girls and women would be shopping in that child size. Kids, coworker confirms. That's it. So the co-worker probably won't be able to buy shoes because she's obviously an adult, but for a 15-year-old boy, she probably won't be able to buy shoes either, because he's already got steamboats 40, 46, 48 or 50 on his feet, which are definitely not baby size anymore. So what is the criterion for opening children's shoes? Age or shoe size? Well, let's not worry, the Minister of Commerce isn't here anyway, let's just say all the shoes and shoe stores open so whoever needs them can buy the winter shoes, not the bullshit that came out of the sky again. The arguments that the Minister of Industry and Trade often states that I can order goods online are absolutely outside the reality of everyday life. There are clear rules already set for open shops and they must apply equally to everyone. Not only for supermarkets, but also for shoe vendors, or any other product vendors. No one has yet been shown to have a large concentration of buyers in these closed stores, and thus the transmission of the disease. On the contrary, a large concentration of shoppers is in supermarkets, and everyone who doesn't have a blind spot sees it. Closing services can't last forever. We know from the past period of their closure that these services are mostly carried out equally. They are realized anyway, but only in so called. Grey economy. Many services, such as pedicure, must also be seen as a preventive medical matter, which may end up in need of medical intervention. Therefore, let the traders do business under clearly defined rules and, at the same time, strict controls, including penalties for violating them. Let's raise the officials who pay 100 percent of their salary every other day at the home office and send them to do something for the benefit of this state. We'll send them to check-ups, send them to people, send them so that we can secure businessmen's activities and all the services in this country. There is certainly also a need to discuss the need to ban night curfew. Of course, I fully understand the Minister of Health's arguments about mobility and the need to limit mobility as much as possible. But don't be mad at me, anyone who walks around town at the time of the curfew, you'll see tens and hundreds of people who are out of residence. It's basically a public secret that no one ever checks. It's not even possible for the police to check the information the citizen may have given: I'm going from work, I'm going to work, I have to see sick relatives, etc. Our fellow citizens are masters of making up anything. Yes, of course, I understand the Minister's argument, which says that they are primarily a group of people who buy bottled or otherwise sold alcoholic beverages and gather together in a public area where they drink and consume this, and if we are banned from curfew, the police can do something about it. The question is, is the police doing something about it and doing something about it? And if so, where do the announcements or, if necessary, the things end? We demand the government to act. To act in the interests of citizens and to make decisions in this difficult time is not only a medical aspect, but also the others that I mentioned. It may be easy to protect hundreds and thousands of lives from endangered groups, but we will drive dozens of others to suicide. Whoever I mean, I don't think there's even a need to introduce. KSČM therefore proposes to extend the emergency state to 14. 2. 2021 and promise, here public promise to meet the three requirements I outlined here. Thank you for your attention and I will be waiting for a statement from either the government as a whole or the relevant minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u13	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala, after him Marian Jurečka, is now ready to speak. All with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I will also begin by looking outside the walls of the Chamber of Deputies to see what is happening in our country. At this point, when we're acting here, thousands are tired, but every minute, professional paramedics are doing their job. Most of them do it perfectly and of course we are grateful. At the same time, tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people would like to do their job, but they can't. They can't because of the pandemic, they can't because of government measures - and we're supposed to work here especially for them. And then, of course, there are millions of people who are somehow limited in their rights, in what they normally do in their interests, in their lives, and our job, which is why I mention it, of course it's to keep them from being limited by a millimeter or a minute longer than necessary. And that, of course, is the task of the entire Chamber of Deputies, but it is especially the task of the opposition to guard the interests of all these people. [[10.40 hours]] The government's job then is to come here to the Chamber of Deputies and propose procedures that will implement our country's pandemics with as little loss as possible, such proposals that are duly justified, argumentated, proportionate. Appropriate and also understandable. And I must say that the government's proposal to prolong the emergency does not meet these criteria, and it does not meet either of those criteria. In our opinion, it is not properly justified, it is unargued, it does not seem appropriate, and therefore many of our citizens consider it incomprehensible, criticises and rejects it, just as they reject a number of measures. Ladies and gentlemen, declaring an emergency, prolonging the emergency is not an administrative task. It's not some administrative measure we're supposed to get used to, and we're just going to extend it by 30 days and 14 days. That's just not how it is, it can't be, it's a serious matter, and that's how we should all approach it, and not just us as the opposition, but so should the government, especially that. To date, let me just remind you, we have a 176-day emergency in our country. Today, the government is demanding 30 days to extend the emergency, so if we count it, that's more than 200 days together. 200 days in the last 365 days, this country has been living in an emergency. And the government is unable - and repeatedly asking for an extension of the emergency - to explain in detail and properly what exactly it needs. Specifically, which action, which decision, which measure or what cannot actually be taken through hygiene or by agreement with the county, why we must continue to be in that emergency state. I'll give you an example. According to the crisis law, if the commander in the territory of his region were to declare a state of danger, he is entitled to order e.g. the working obligation, working assistance or provision of a means of material in order to deal with a crisis situation or the priority supply of children's, health, social facilities and armed forces, security forces or components of an integrated rescue system involved in the implementation of crisis measures and to the extent necessary also elements of critical infrastructure. And I'll be quoting from the crisis law. "And it also has the possibility to prohibit the entry, residence and movement of persons in a designated place or territory when declaring a state of danger.' These are powers, such as the powers of the commanders in the declaration of a state of danger. We have raised a number of arguments here in the past and asked the government exactly what the emergency situation is for, why it cannot be done without him, what needs to be regulated. And I'm actually asking the government again. Me, but what about me, the citizens, a lot of people who have doubts about whether we should live 200 days in an emergency, just the answer from the government is missing. And today again, we have a proposal that is not justified enough, and it seems disproportionate and unintelligible to us. That is why the Civil Democratic Party will not support it. And as we said to the public at the press conference a moment ago, our coalition of SPOLU, ODS, KDU and TOP 09, will not support it together. We do not want to support further government improvisation. We are not going to give the government this blank check, if the government is not able at the same time, it is not willing to answer public questions and solve the problems that are here on the table. I'll mention one, and that's what's actually the most important thing for managing a pandemic, and that's vaccination. We cannot limit people's rights, ask them to accept it, to sit at home while letting them face such confusion and the problems they face today. I want to reiterate some of the questions that we have asked, which are on the table that citizens are asking and on which we still do not think there is a good answer. When we look at any numbers, any correlation table based on any relevant data, we see that the Czech Republic is simply not well equipped with vaccination, and this can be interpreted here by the Prime Minister or another member of the government who wants it. It's gonna be like football. Soccer just counts the results. Well, if you lose 3:0, then you lose 3:0, you lose 3:0, the coach can't say: we played great, it looked great, it was a beautiful game, I'm satisfied. But the result is 3-0, and the points go to someone else. And when I look at really any numbers, the number of people vaccinated in the Czech Republic is significantly lower, significantly lower than in neighbouring countries and in most countries of Europe. And that's not good. And we have to ask for reasons. I appreciate the fact that we discussed this two days ago in the House of Deputies, that we will still be discussing this. I also appreciate the fact that yesterday our coalition of the SPOLU, the chairmen and members of our AntiCovid team had meetings with the Minister of Health, these are good steps and we want to continue to do so. But the unanswered questions are still here. First of all, let me remind you of a few. What's the deal with the reservation system? He collapsed last week. Is he really ready to book other groups? I know the Minister had a press conference today. To confess, I'm not much wiser than when I tried to register my parents in that vaccination system last week. There's some kind of adjustment, we'll see. And is it such an adjustment that the system is really ready to make it? So he can handle it a little more comfortably and for those people more friendly and in some way more understandable than last week? Two. So when exactly will it occur, what is the outlook for vaccination of those who really want to be vaccinated and do not belong to those priority groups? The annexes to the Government Methodological Guidelines show that vaccination of the other population, the last group according to prioritization, will take place between May 2021 and 2022. So people say, "What does that mean? When will we be vaccinated? When is the end of the first vaccine? I think this, too, should be a clear answer from the government. Not just us, but the citizens. Through our citizens. Three. We already know there's a slide against the original plan, against the original strategy. 178,000 people were to be vaccinated by the end of January. It's just not gonna happen, there's not gonna be that many people getting those two shots so we can say they're inoculated. Will the slide continue, or won't it? Is there any adjustment to the plan? So what's it gonna look like? Four. What is the distribution system between regions? We are really asked by people from the regions, and they say, "What is it? There's no justice here. Can you deny that some regions are affected, that more vaccines are delivered to them, and why? Is it because there's a faculty hospital somewhere, there's no faculty hospital somewhere, is there any other reason? Is it by population, or isn't it? Yesterday, an article appeared in the media that Central Bohemia should perhaps have received five times less vaccines than Prague received in the same population. Well, it raises questions. Will the information on the distribution of vaccines between the regions be public or not public? Why aren't they? It's possible to clearly explain this and disprove it. Five. Is it true that there will be no planned extension of the number of vaccination sites, because the planned numbers of vaccines to be delivered in January and February will be lower than expected? And is it because we ordered a few? Or did the regions or the government or the European Union not order enough? What is it, then? How much, exactly, for the sixth time, do we actually have at our disposal? Is there a delay in deliveries? I guess that's obvious, but we have to ask why. And seven, I'm going back to the beginning. We ask - and we need to know the answer to correct this - why the Czech Republic is moving slower in vaccination than many other countries in Europe, including our neighbours, including Slovakia, including Poland, in the number of people vaccinated. Those are clear numbers. But we need to know why that is. It's not for us to bathe the government on it, but the government should just say this happened and we fixed it like that. Because we can't accept it. I don't think any of us want us to be on some twenty-nine, twenty-seven, it can shift a little every day, but we're certainly not among those countries that would inoculate it quickly and in a good way. [[10.50 hours]] And I want to mention one more topic that's crucial when we ask people for understanding, for stamina, for patience, and that's this. Economic activities have been restricted here for about a year, the same has been happening for about a year. Unfortunately, the restriction of economic activities is still not entirely predictable, because what we have all relied on and from what we have promised the clarity and clarity, and this is the system of PES, so it changes, and the government doesn't actually follow it, so even people can't take the predictability out of it: five days we're at this stage or there are numbers like this, and that means that... or now we can count on some kind of dislodgement. It was meant to be, but it just isn't. So no one knows what's gonna happen and how it's gonna be. And if a new group is affected or it turns out that they just can't survive economically, then Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček will perform at a press conference and say: and so we've come up with this segment of the market that we're going to give this right over here, and here it's going to be 30%, here it's fifty, here it is. It's after each other, so these people are waiting to see what's coming at the press conference, and we don't think we can do that. The support system has a lot of bugs, and we're calling for it to be prepared here, we've also designed it, gave people a fair, predictable, fair system to know that when there's a fourth wave of covid, no one wants it, but what we know, so they don't have to wait for a government press conference again, a whole series to continue, exciting, so they don't have to wait their turn, or if it's forgotten about them again, and it's going to be a week away, but so there's a system in it and people have some security. So let's do it together, we offer it again, let's do it together, and let's adopt the compensation law, which such a clear and transparent system offers, which tells those who are prevented from doing business, that they will have paid 100 percent of the fixed costs, those who are limited in business, the compensation law clearly tells them that they will have 50 percent of the fixed costs, it is simple, understandable, it gives people certainty. That's very important. And it also gives or strengthens confidence in the state. When there is such a situation that my service, my business will have to be limited, I am sure that the state will pay me these and these costs and I can survive. That's much better, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, it's much better than that: now we're thinking that we should still compensate those skiers, and now we've closed this, so we have to do this and this program. It's unnecessarily complicated, complicated. Let's go to the compensation law, let's improve it together, let's accept it and let's give people confidence. However, we cannot continue merely to give compensation and support. Forgiveness is also needed, deregulation is needed, bureaucratic burden entrepreneurs need to be relieved. Simple proposal: let's restore Antivirus C. It worked out in the first wave. Small businesses need money. So let's leave them, forgive the social contributions from employees' wages for at least the first quarter of this year. It's gonna be a big help. It's simple, it worked, so let's get back to it. The remission of health and social contributions for self-employed persons also worked. Let's just do it again, let's do it for a while. These are also tools that have proved to be effective and will give entrepreneurs, especially smaller ones, some certainty, a chance to survive, as well as hope and confidence in the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I started my performance with the paramedics. By reminding them of their hard work and exhaustion and fatigue, when they have been facing the crisis for months and facing it daily. I told you we were all grateful. I was talking about those people that are falling into these economic measures, and I was actually talking about everyone who's tired, and each of us has some limitations in our lives, so let's think about these people and do the job we're supposed to do right. And I think that means, let's answer people's questions about vaccination, because only vaccination will end this crisis, only vaccination will allow health professionals to relax, so that we can all get back to normal, normal life. And doing our job properly in addition to vaccination means giving people who can't do their job now a fair, predictable, fair system of compensation. And we can just do that. And we, the opposition, our coalition of the SPOLU, offer to the government our experience, our knowledge and our cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u15	I thank Vice-President Petr Fial. Mr. President Marian Jurečka will now speak with priority rights. The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare himself. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues - and I wanted to say: Mr Prime Minister, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. Thank you for having at least two government ministers, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Culture. But I would have expected that there would be people like the Prime Minister and his vice-premieres here, because the subject we are discussing today, even though some Members here are shaking their minds, is not just about protecting people's health, but the issue of prolonging the emergency situation has huge consequences on the economy, on the normal, daily lives of parents, families, on the question of the livelihood of people in the Czech Republic. And I am sorry that these colleagues from the government are not here, as if they were not interested, because I also have things, not just me, but others who have performed here, which would be good for these colleagues to hear and respond to. I very much appreciate Minister Blatný meeting with us yesterday. But when we talked to him about specific things that we from the opposition parties would like the government to change, to modify, he actually said: I understand you, but in principle I am not able to influence or enforce it, it is also up to other members of the government. And we have to realize that every day, the lockdown costs us around CZK 1 1/2 billion, which we will all have to pay under the debt that we are creating. And for KDU-ČSL, the protection of people's lives, of life as such, of its quality, of its length, but also of life, which has a perspective in that man is able to secure his own needs, to feed, to feed his children, his husbands and wives, partners, partners, all of this is part of a life that has some quality, perspective, hope, joy. And if we're deciding whether to extend it here, we're not just giving the government room to take measures that are very restrictive today. Yes, with the purpose I understand, protecting people from further and further spread of the covid. But at the same time, we confirm the set rules on forms of compensation and support for those affected by these measures. And that's the big problem that I, as KDU-ČSL, have here, that the rules for the aid, for the compensation, unfortunately, for the compensation, are not set up to support all the people who are losing their income. And I'm going to touch some specific examples here. [[11.00 hours]] I think it is not that most people want to circumvent government measures, that the citizens of the Czech Republic here in most cases want to chew and go north, go south and so on. But the fact that there is an ever greater and greater non-compliance is due to the desperate situation of those living in that situation. I am hearing from dozens of people who say: We are very worried that we will get into a situation, that we will have to be quarantined or scared of covid, and we will fall by about 40 percent. There's pressure on us from the employers, the superiors, to go to work until we can, to scare away any of our colleagues, because that means not only a drop in the income of those people and their families, and they often get into a situation that goes beyond debt traps, with execution and loss of housing. But there's pressure on the companies that bear the costs of the employees who are on the sick leave. And if the government were to change this approach here and say, "people, when you're trashed, you're going to be quarantined at home, we're going to help you," and if she said to employers, "if your employees don't come to work because they're responsible for themselves and their surroundings, we're going to help you too," so many things would change in this pandemic situation, and it would be at a much lower cost than the complete lockdown we're in. That is the thought, I think, of most reasonable people, even those who are probably watching our speeches in the Chamber of Deputies. I'll say a few specific white spots on the map that were or still are this week. Since October, those businessmen who had done business properly until then, sometimes in the past, have been in the process of debt relief, and have paid properly what the court has imposed on them in the context of the debt relief process. These people were not granted a compensatory bonus by the government and were left behind for three months. Madam Secretary, when I proposed this proposal here at the beginning of December, let us allow these people to receive a compensatory bonus so that a compensatory bonus would be possible, she used it as a strong argument that she consulted the European Commission and that the European Commission had told her that we could not do it yet. That's a brutal contrast to what happened here in this House yesterday. Yesterday, a law passed here, which we clearly know - an amendment to the Food Act - is that it is a contradiction with fundamental European law. That didn't bother the Minister and the members of the government. But to argue that the government will not help tens of thousands of people who have honestly paid their debts in the process of debt relief, the government has shut down their business, so the Minister here will argue with the European Commission? The European Commission, let me just remind you that it has agreed to do so, so compensation for those who are in debt will be possible. It's been discussed here this week. But it took two months. Does that seem normal to you? And those people were supposed to live off of what? Where did these people go when they didn't have anyone in the family to lend them? And it bothers me that the professionalism, the courage and the humanity of that government are lacking, so that this government charts the white spots on the map, and we, as opposition parties, draw attention to that, we put forward these legislative proposals. And while I'm on these legislative proposals, Minister Havlíček said last week that the opposition does nothing but criticize. I will mention here because we have an AntiCovid team, we discuss outputs every week, for example, a colleague from the opposition, Dominik Feri, drew attention to a completely desperate government information web that he and a volunteer team have been able to design and build in 14 days - that is what the opposition is good for. But especially for Minister Havlíček, for Prime Minister, who is not here, unfortunately, I have prepared a list of what Members and Senators have done for KDU-ČSL in the last 10 months, and I have only taken proposals concerning covido. So, Mr. absent Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček and Mr. absent Prime Minister, for KDU-ČSL it is 103 - 103 amendments, some of which were lucky to have passed the first time, but unfortunately many of them were swept under the table because it was the opposition proposal, and the government coalition after months or two evaluates that it can do it best, so the same idea, the same text is copied and it becomes a government proposal, or the government proposal of a coalitionist. And then there's the third category that's still waiting, and I'm still gonna talk about it, so I can figure out how to solve that category. In the finals, I don't mind the opposition's idea of taking the coalition and putting it into practice. I'm just sorry that for those people who are in huge trouble, sometimes it takes a month, sometimes two, sometimes three, and in some cases maybe not at all. So I'm talking about those who are in debt. Okay, after two months, it worked. Then I'm going to mention here a special category that concerns tens of thousands of businessmen, those who don't have an establishment, or some because they've lost the opportunity to earn and have income since October, so they canceled the establishment. Imagine, eh, a government order and a methodical order from the Ministry of Finance says: a businessman without an establishment, so we're not going to give it a compensation bonus. Unfortunately, I have hundreds of cases of people turning to me for trying, making that request, and to this day, in mid-January, they have no answer, no settlement. These people don't have income for three months because of government decisions, because of covid, but unfortunately they don't even have the solution. There's no hope. So here again, in this summary of amendments to the government, we also have a concrete proposal to help businessmen who do not have an establishment, but cannot do business because of decisions and measures taken by the government, they have no income or their families, but simply the government does not deal with them. So I'm saying this to draw attention to the really desperate situation of those families. Let me just remind you, the businessman who doesn't have the establishment doesn't have the competence bonus, so the state calls him in this second wave, unlike the first one: but you're gonna pay the minimum contributions. Despite all this - here is the Minister of Culture - through all this the artist of the 5,000 crowns must take away. And those categories, even those artistic professions that concern the Ministry of Culture, which are in this situation, are certainly not enough. And let me give you one more example - desperate - of last week's bus operators. I got a call from a lady who says: We have a family company, our dad built it for 30 years, we got on some 15 buses, we do transport honestly in our region especially for schools, kindergartens, trips, we received about CZK 20, 24 million per year. Now we've got about 2.5 million crowns of compensation, which Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček was talking about in a bombshell, like it's an amazing compensation for these people. It's inadequate. And that's the thing that's driving these people into a desperate situation. The lady said, "We're gonna lose these buses, we're gonna get our leases taken away, the ones we have in the lease," that's not the worst thing. But the worst part is that most of the businessmen - and I know that because I was a businessman for 12 years before I came to the Chamber of Deputies here, and I'm still at home on my free time, so most of those people have bills for those loans, and those banking and leasing companies are gonna come and say, we're gonna take it, we're gonna take your house, your apartment, your roof over your head, your home. This is once again the desperate condition in which these people are in and why they say: do something about it. So either, government, please give good compensation, don't put these people in this situation, or you have to consider whether in such a situation the emergency situation is sustainable further. What we propose is that I be constructive. Please nicely increase the compensation bonus to 20,000. We, as KDU-ČSL, re-submit the proposal, will be re-submitted here. Why? Because in the spring wave there was a compensation bonus of 15,000, but it did not deviate from social and health, it was forgiven. Now the compensation bonus is also 15,000, but it takes off social and health. That means it's 10,000 pure for the businessman. Try, members of the government, to have a business closed, to have a wife at home for maternity, parenting, two children at home, and to live on 10,000. Then, please, nicely, for a transitional period, as in the first wave, do, government, pardon the charges. Please, let's bring in the compensation bill, we've already talked about it, let's have predictable, readable and clearly set rules for when something like this happens today and in the future, what these people can expect from the state. And please nicely - there is no Home Secretary, we have been asking for this for six months, during the holidays he talked about it a lot, he talked about the amendment to the crisis law - make it, government, the amendment to the crisis law, because there was a chance that there was no emergency here as it is today, but there would be a state of danger with different parameters and under other conditions he could work here in times of pandemic. Because the current emergency is de facto designed for war, but not for pandemics. We, as opposition parties, have said that we are ready for maximum synergies so that such a law will pass in a very short time. [[11.10 hours]] And then, please, one more thing, and I said it here about a month and a half ago, and I turned to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. Please go ahead and sort out the medical situation with which work duties have been imposed. The fact that the Finance Minister said that he didn't have to pay the taxes after all, but the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs still doesn't know if social is supposed to pay it. And I'm asking you, Minister, to settle with your colleagues if they should also pay for health care. And one more thing that my families pointed out to me, for example, is multiples, which have such a doctor who has been assigned a duty to work, received a reward, so a few hundred crowns have gone over the limit for which they do not receive a multiple amount of social support. It's absurd, but it's true. Please change that, too. I beg you very much for these people. Thanks for making some of the members of the government communicate with us. As I was talking here about the fact that we have an Anticovid team of experts who are trying to come up with constructive, meaningful, proposals on how to remove white spots on the map of the system, how to improve the system, as well as other members of the government, please take time once a month for an hour, an hour and a half, videoconference, discuss these suggestions with us. It's not really time lost, but I think it's time important. And any reasonable politician, the manager can listen, he can take critical feedback because that's the only way he can get better. Unless he's blinded. We also talked a lot about vaccination. I'll just say vaccination. Our commander in South Moravia showed yesterday that it is possible to inoculate people in the field, that we do not have to push those people over the age of 80 into a complex registration system, that the common community can handle the practice in one day. Let's develop this concept. I understand there's a problem with the vaccine manufacturer, but I think it's a demonstration of how I don't have to get these people into the PIN system and whether the PINs came and whether someone gave the PIN or not. So please, try to take a normal human look at it this way, which the captains show it is possible. Thanks for making registration easier. I noticed that the system would be able to address these people today. But please the Minister, offer the nearest registration point for these people. I have information that the system isn't working with a resident and the nearest vaccination center yet, so these people are chasing it halfway across the county or the whole other side of the county. Try to work with this thing too, so that the person is as close to the place of residence as possible. Solve the issue of the vaccination certificate and how we will be able to simply show, electronically via the cell phone, in the coming months, who has the vaccination, who doesn't have it. Because it's gonna be important, too. In a few months, there's gonna be a debate. When the measures are loosened up, let this be settled, too, since it's already done here. And what I asked for very yesterday, I also thank you for the promise to make here the even distribution of vaccines into the regions. Because there is a huge difference in vaccination in Prague, where we have about 2.7 percent of the population, or in Pardubice region, where it is about 0.4 percent. That's two days ago, I don't have the current one from yesterday. But I am glad that the Minister has also found that it is necessary to correct this, so that there is really an area, fair, fair, distribution of the vaccine into the regions. And at the very end - I'm coming to the end - please try to perceive the normal human things. Because the absurdity with the so-called purchase of children's clothes and shoes being allowed. Please, if any of the members of the government can defend it, come here and say the definition of children's clothes and children's shoes. I'm the father of five children. And my three older boys are either the same size shoe or bigger. How are we supposed to go shopping for these shoes? What's the children's category? Is it up to 40 shoe sizes or over 40? What about those with 45, 46? That doesn't even belong here for the House debate. Because normally, the government would solve this before making that decision. But since it happened, your parents are texting us. And it's really crazy, like people say. Then do something about it. Figure it out so we can just go shopping for clothes in the winter, when something breaks, needs to be fixed, needs to be replaced, so that he can have that option. So that's about the end of it. I have to say, I'm not happy that I had to give such a list of things that don't work ideally in practice, work badly or have been forgotten by groups of people. And with regard to the decision as to how this leads to the vote today in extending the emergency situation, I must say that we have repeatedly asked the government, especially the Prime Minister, to be willing to negotiate with us, to be able to say to groups of people who are undercompensated that the government will change that approach. Unfortunately, we didn't hear anything like that, which is why we can't support the extension of the KDU-ČSL status. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will now appear, the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip will prepare. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I would like to respond to the final performance. Mr. Chairman Jurečka said we should think about the normal human things. Well, right now, I feel like we need to prolong the emergency. What seems normal to me is that the main reason we need it is because hospitals inflate, or rather that hospitals don't inflate, but other patients come in. That in a number of hospitals, the situation is on the brink that our numbers of patients, despite being in the fifth degree, aren't falling as fast as we would like, and that we're still at risk of getting to the edge in the next few weeks, or even behind it. Even Chairman Fiala mentioned paramedics here three times and said he felt the work they were doing in those hospitals. Well, that was nice of him to keep saying that in here, how hard it is now in a number of hospitals. But I assure you, it would be best if you could help us with the emergency situation today, because I can't quite imagine, normally humanly, how we could handle it, how we would face the next challenge if you took this instrument away from us. You know, it seems so curious to me. Mr. President Jurečka says our current emergency situation isn't made in the pandemic. Well, folks, those emergency situations that are taking place today in a number of European countries, almost none of them, or certainly none of them are made for pandemics. Because, in any country, this type of crisis situation was not expected. So they're actually using laws that are often prepared and formulated for something else. And yet they accept them because there's no time to write new laws. Today, in these performances, it is the connection to the legislation that is often heard. We can work on it, but it's not an easy thing to handle. To adopt a new crisis law, to make constitutional changes, to just build it all to match the situation, it's not an easy thing to do. We have two chambers here. Even if we cut it short, it's a rather difficult matter. When it says we have to make one law of compensation. Do you understand? We want an emergency because of the situation in hospitals, and you're talking about the law. You say compensation law. Of course, in March of last year, no one knew that the whole thing would have to be discussed later in such a comprehensive and systematic way. But today, it's not so easy to catch up. Because even in other countries, they don't make global new laws these days. The way they just started doing it, the preparation of new laws might complicate the situation. It's not an easy debate. Legitimate is to talk about it, I'm not questioning it, I'm just saying it's not that simple. And in a situation where the situation is not going well right now, we need an emergency situation, as well as the one we have now written. Well, putting new laws and working on them here, that's nice, but I don't think it's consistent with what normally happens in our country. Let me tell you something. When you look at the other parliaments in Europe, you're surprised how similar the debates are there. I just watched Matteo Renzi. Matteo Renzi in the Italian Parliament says to the government: "The government does not answer the questions the people ask, but the Italian people need answers to those questions. " And since the government is unable to give, my government has to leave. There was even a vote on trust, but the government, I think, somehow transformed, stood still. In Holland, the government, as you know, has left. This situation, it's just, these debates, they're like, uh, they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... they're... [[11.20 hours]] But I don't think the lashing out is accurate. Like I think the Italian people don't ask those questions, like Matteo Renzi says, so I don't think President Petr Fiala is even right when he said that a lot of people here today are upset that he has to live here in an emergency state for 200 days. I think people don't like other things. They don't even know what a legislative majority is, that they don't deal with what an emergency is. People are worried about the situation, the uncertainty, the hospitals, the fact that they have to wear masks. That's what bothers them. But that they would discuss the emergency situation and whether or not it's needed, I don't think it's the subject of a normal human debate. That's a fake problem. It's just that Mr. Fiala's sentence that a lot of people are bothering about 200 days in an emergency is about as true as Matte Renzi's sentence that the Italian people want questions that they don't get answers to, and that's why the government is useless. Those questions, these answers aren't really government today. You're saying that the Minister of Health, or that the government isn't able to predict that for many people today, they don't know exactly what's going to happen in a month. And so you're asking the Minister of Health to probably paint it more accurately. I'm afraid he won't be able to do that today. He won't be able to tell you what the month will be in two months. No government, even if it were here, I dare say, would probably be able to give more certainty to people in this country, just as it is unable to give it either in Italy or in those other countries. Unfortunately, this is the situation in which we are, the new type of uncertainty in which we are moving. And it's hard for all governments, I guess. And even consider that states that we think are very efficient and that are very consolidated in terms of administration, like Sweden and the like, are often in situations where they apologize to people for how they fail, how they cannot estimate the situation and how they make mistakes. Because it's true that everyone is doing them because we didn't know what was going to happen today a month ago, we didn't know about the British mutation and the Brazilian mutation, we didn't know how serious it was until recently. This situation is changing as it moves. So, normally humanly, it seems to me that at this point, there shouldn't even be a big barrier between the opposition and the coalition, because we're really all in it, and that there should actually be an agreement here. And as many of the things you mentioned need to be discussed, there are too many of them on this table today, because there are too many of those things. Legislation cannot be modified so quickly, nor is it so easy that we do not make more mistakes than benefit. But what we need now is just to extend the emergency for the simple, practical reasons that have been listed here more than once. I know some of your reservations, I know some of you are talking about competitions and other things. It's not ideal, and I don't think we're gonna be able to fix all this right now, and we're not gonna be able to meet all these demands here, and we still need that emergency situation. And I don't like one thing either. I don't like it - I appreciate those who are willing to talk to the government from the opposition, or whoever, I think it's the right understanding of the situation, but it shouldn't be something for something today: we're voting you off an emergency situation and you're making us some for it. I also appreciate the debate, I say, with each side, and I am glad that the Communists are talking about it with the government, but I don't know if the Minister can tell you today that he's going to release the skies tomorrow and that he's going to go to school tomorrow. Do you understand? I say it for him. I find it difficult for him to make such promises. How can he say where we'll be in two weeks today? You understand, this type of business - you accept, we vote for you in an emergency situation, and you promise to do something in two weeks - it seems to me that this is not the kind of debate that can be conducted here today, and it doesn't match the situation. We should agree, because, I repeat, something today is not about opposition and coalition, because it would be difficult for everyone. And no one has a patent. It's easy to say how you can do this today, but it's hard to do it in any country, and we should be looking for a way we can work out. But I don't think that the deal today should be that the government is just making promises, because even the government can't 100% know what the numbers will be in two weeks, we won't know what situation we're in, and it'll make decisions. Now we're gonna talk about how things are going this week, so we're gonna talk about this in two weeks, and no one can guarantee you what we can do at the beginning of February or mid-February. That's why I think that this type of commitment, or trade, is not appropriate today. I know this debate is necessary and necessary, but in this debate today, no one actually has a patent to know the way. The government is looking for it, but today it has a united view that it needs an emergency, just as we do and we are looking for a unified view of what regimes we are going to create in this country. And at least some idea of how the government is going to behave, we're going to give people, but we're not going to be able to give absolute certainty today, and we're not even able to promise that easily today. I don't think that's even fair. So thank you for the many comments that are being made here, but I believe that many of them cannot be fulfilled and should not be given as an emergency condition. We need it not for ourselves, we just need it for the hospitals today, for the paramedics, because when things go wrong, it starts to overflow in the hospitals and we get to the edge. This is a serious situation, and that should be the result of today's debate. The government needs help doing this. All of us, the opposition, all of us in this House for this help, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Minister. President Vojtěch Filip will now appear, Minister Jan Blatný will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief, I will only supplement the position of the KSČM club presented by Zdeněk Ondráček, on the grounds that I am convinced and I am certainly not in doubt that I am a liberal or a neoliberal politician and that I have great reservations about this neoliberal policy, yet I am surprised by those who say here as neoliberals that it is only possible to use vaccines that are approved by the European Union. Zdeněk Ondráček has already said it here and I want to repeat it, we have the State Department for Drug Control. I do not doubt that it is often more advantageous to use a single European method and a single procedure in Europe in the 27th grade, but on the other hand, we must say what we want, if we want to do it quickly, and a number of my previous speakers, political parties, have said so, and if we want to do it quickly, we cannot say that we are going to use one vaccine. And if they decide, for example, the State of Israel, that it wants to inoculate its citizens if they decided in Hungary, if they decided in Saudi Arabia, to name some of the states where it took place, they always knew that the biggest problem in society's vaccination is the number of vaccines. I have the government material, and I understand that we would have had the 11,000 doses in total at the end of June, and that is only possible because Pfizer announced another reduction in supplies for the Czech Republic. And that's why I started by not being a liberal. And while I am not a liberal, I agree that it is necessary to diversify those resources, that we need to act, that we cannot wait to see if anyone has another vaccine registered with the European agency. Either the vaccine works in the world, and we have a separate office, the State Drug Control Office, and we will start working there and, of course, at the European Council meeting, either at the level of prime ministers or at the level of health ministers, or at the level of crisis staffs, we will promote that the Czech Republic, we ourselves, and Europe, for the whole of Europe, can not only buy the vaccine, but also produce it together. And now it doesn't matter if Pfizer or Moderna is faster, or if AstraZeneca, CuraVac, Johnson and Johnson, Sanofi Pasteur, Novavax is faster. I don't prefer any manufacturer, but I'm telling you frankly, if we're not willing to discuss how to buy quickly, then forget that we can talk here at all about the fact that we can inoculate Czech society more quickly. I just can't. We have to choose, we can't lie to ourselves. We can't say yes, it'll be then and then, but we'll be waiting for Pfizer to deliver when it starts delivering normally and not shortening our deliveries. I just can't. We need to be straight with each other if we want something to do, how to do it. [[11.30 hours]] Yes, the model adopted by Hungary is practically usable for us. Moreover, it is our almost neighbouring state and, of course, it is our partner in the V4 group. And I'm not convinced that we can afford to lie to ourselves and that we can say well, so it'll go faster. It won't go any faster. And if we want to deal with the situation, of course, we need to take care of our own citizens first. That's one thing. The second thing is that the Minister of Culture questioned here whether we can or cannot say whether we will open schools or ski resorts or any services. Please, I have great confidence, great confidence in the Regional Hygiene Station in České Budějovice, its leadership and its ability. Whenever I approached them, I found out how this service is able to provide a manual for anyone who wants to carry out a specific matter under this condition. And if it's the opening of a ski resort, you can also do a manual there. If it's the opening of schools, it's possible even there. But we must have a will. I must say, I was most satisfied with how the Republic Championship took place in the cyclocross in Tábor. And the manual for the championship itself was made by the Regional Hygiene Station in České Budějovice. Mrs. Kotrbová is an expert, an epidemiologist who has not only education, skills, but also an organizational talent to prove it. And I don't understand why we should be dealing centrally with all this when we can deal with it at regional level, when we have authorities here that can deal with it, with the impact of the responsibility on them, in order not to talk about the lockdown, as it is now modernly said, that is, the closure of the economy, but that we will be able to cope with the particular complex hygiene situation. That's the responsibility of our work. Zdeněk Ondráček said that our responsibility is to accept the laws, even one is here for almost a year, to be able to handle the crisis better, so that it is legally within the limits of how people should behave. But it can't be dealt with day to day. This needs to be dealt with systematically so that we are able to answer these people's questions, even if we sometimes have to say that we are taking measures because no one has ever taken such measures, and we will see what happens. I don't question the fact that the Minister of Health is unable to answer how the anti-epidemiology system will develop, if he doesn't know the impact, he doesn't even know the other mutations of the virus. I don't want him to, I don't want him to worry, I don't want to be smart around here. But on the other hand, I perceive his willingness to bear that responsibility, his diligence and systematicity in being able to find that concrete step in his own system and learn from what we have done and what we have failed to do. I'm not an idle critic, and I'm not gonna be a idle critic. I think that those who know me know this, and I am convinced that we can give greater confidence to those regional health stations that we can also respond to a larger number of people in the Czech Republic to the questions they ask us. And I'd like us to do that. Once again, I am in favour of adopting the three necessary laws, especially the amendment to the Crisis Management Act, in a fundamental way in this emergency situation, and I insist that we discuss this at this meeting at second reading. I want us to be able to be decentralized, and I want it to be imposed on the Minister of Education individually to submit the conditions under which the children of the first grade of primary schools would return to the bench at the latest at the beginning of February. And I think it's right that instead of chaos in the mountains, some order should apply, that is, sanitary stations will present operating rules, changed operating rules of ski resorts, and operators will follow them. They're probably gonna ask us to do something different than when we tell them you're not gonna do anything. But I think such a manual is necessary. Like the manual for going to the store, we can, of course, have rules on how to behave on downhill or cross-country trails. It's nothing that's impossible. I consider these three things essential. I consider them essential because it would increase confidence. Not idle criticism, but a step that will lead to us communicating with these people and being able to find solutions for them, for their normal lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný will now present himself, the chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek will present himself. These are all those who are logged in with priority rights at the moment. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make a specific statement on the individual things that have been said here in a matter of fact. To President Pekarová's Adamová. Regular negotiations with the opposition that you are talking about, and with all of them, I think it is certainly beneficial, useful, and I will be happy to continue to participate in them. I believe that we will continue to agree on this, because this dialogue is absolutely necessary, and I completely agree with that. I am merely pointing out to President Okamur a specific question: there are enough vaccines and needles, they are not only ordered within the European Union, but we have also bought them into state reserves. So I can only reassure everyone that there is no shortage in this area, and I think that the vaccination strategy and methodical instruction, as it is prepared, is meaningful and functional. What Mr Ondráček said, and after all, it was said here by several other colleagues, whether by the Pirates or by KDU-ČSL and others. I am so completely in agreement with the fact that negotiations on legislation are needed. From my point of view, it is appropriate and necessary to find something similar to what they call an epidemic in Germany. And regardless of how it is judged, of course the form of constitutional law is a little more complicated than the regulation of existing legal standards, but I agree that the crisis law, as it is designed in our country, and priori is not designed for epidemic states, because there have not been any so far. It is a new reality and it will have to be reacted in some way. It was also mentioned that the existing measures did not work, I mean the restrictive ones. Well, I'll just, from a medical point of view, point out what we all know that there's always time to give. So on the contrary, I think that the measures that are now being set work very well, because now the improvement in the population curve is evident, and it's with the time gap that's expected. The problem that we need to address is, in particular, that only the change in the population and the changes in those hospitals that occur later and slower are becoming increasingly separate from us. And the reason is one thing. We have hospitals from the previous waves overcrowded and people who are mainly in intensive care units remain there for weeks, not days. This means that the reaction from those hospitals is much slower, and without the functional health system, as I said, I would have repeated myself, it would have been difficult to do. I will mention what has been discussed here as vaccines outside the approval of the European Medicines Agency. Yes, the Czech Republic, like all other countries, has its own agency, with us it is specifically SÚKL. But we have not only professional but also legal commitments that drug legislation is associated with European registration. Some authority of the SÚKL is also specified in this. I am not saying that this is not possible at all, just pointing out that as a doctor, there is some responsibility for me, or if you want the authority of the European Medicines Agency very high. [[11.40 hours]] The European Medicines Agency has standards that are even more stringent than many other countries, virtually the most stringent in the world. Yes, it leads to the fact that approval sometimes takes a long time, but it is something that I think we are doing for our citizens, so that, for example, vaccination is not only quick but also safe. And from my point of view, it's as safe as it always is with all the other drugs a little bit higher than speed. I understand the efforts of my colleagues, I do not criticize, I just point out that I will definitely give these recommendations as the Ministry of Health, because I consider them professionally justified. Schools since January. It certainly depends on the epidemic situation, and when it is possible, the first degree, the seniors and the ninth grade mentioned here are certainly a priority, I will return to those promises eventually. President Fiala spoke of the fact that it is said that we are in bad shape, that we are in worse shape than other countries. You're right about that, Mr. Chairman. It's actually written. I'm just pointing out what we all know is that we've been getting this ugly, ugly thing going on lately, that what it says isn't so often true. So only specific dates for vaccination in the Czech Republic. At present, 1.5 percent of the vaccinated population is more than 150,000 vaccinated. For example, because European comparisons are often backwards, so on 16. 11. For example, 87 000 were inoculated in neighbouring Austria, in the Czech Republic on the same day over 100,000. So we're even, we're not even at the top, we're not even at the bottom. And there are data that compare the tests similarly, and others compare the tests. So I'm just pointing out that we don't need to be critical of each other. The Czech Republic is not in bad shape, and it is not because I wish it or because I say it, but because it is data that can be trusted. It is true, however, that there are a lot of data that are given as trustworthy, but unfortunately they are not. The central reservation system is currently, for information, significantly improved, I spoke about it this morning, and it is also the acceptance of incentives from the very various negotiations, and at present it will not happen that those who receive so-called invitation SMS do not actually find a deadline. It's all set up so that the moment you get this invitation text, it's also connected with the fact that you have to find the term for yourself. Therefore, the seniors and others will not have to compete for deadlines in the future and repeatedly approach the system. End of vaccination - and this may be an essential report for all citizens, and it is honorable to say it here - Group 1A if it is not marketed from AstraZenec as it should be, will end until the end of March 2021. When AstraZeneca is given as promised, what we planned to inoculate this population by the end of February 2021 will also be observed. I do not think that there would be any straining of the regions, I have repeatedly stressed that the initial deliveries set up in December still took into account only the estimated capacity of individual regions, and only from the third week of this month are deliveries according to the number of inhabitants, taking into account the number of seniors for those regions, which may have had only one salary so far, so now they will have three or four, of course, depending on how Pfizer keeps his promise. For example, I asked the director of the Czech branch of Pfizer to come to me this Friday to discuss it, because the pressure must be from everywhere, not only at European level, but also at national level. It is true that the situation is unpredictable, but that has already been said here, unfortunately it is not the government's fault. About a few points that President Jurečka said. Quarantine and isolation, of course, is something that is bothering everyone. I just, as a doctor, must always point out that we need to consider not putting one disease before another. When I say this very generally, there are people here who may have a more serious disease, they have oncological diseases and so on, so just some too fast resetting of these long-term systems could create another injustice. But I'm not the one setting up these regimes, so I'm just pointing it out from the point of view of the doctor. The emergency situation and its other legislation, or so that it might not be an emergency, I mentioned that already, I agree. As far as medical students are concerned, they have been paid the social benefits through the money that the Ministry of Health has sent to the county. I understand what the Prime Minister said. As soon as it affects some of their benefits, it is possible to consult with the MPSV, I see it as the thing that has been said here. It has been said that the central reservation system should not be used so often and that vaccination via physicians should be preferred. I'm just pointing out that at the moment, in the vaccine we're using, the central reservation system is also needed to manage the vaccines and to register them, distribute them, etc. When we have vaccines that can be delivered directly to practical doctors, then it is expected that the majority or almost half of the burden will be on them, and in this case the central reservation system will not be used for them. And in the end, let me just give a little philosophical thought to what we've all actually heard so far about uncertainty. She's become a new norm. And we don't want to get used to it, it's uncomfortable, but it's true. No one likes it, but since we're facing a biological process that we've been through for generations of all of us, as we sit here, we've never been forced to face, it's something new. And it's really the uncertainty that exists here and that's probably going to last here in some way. We can't, and we won't, we've tried it before, we've ordered winds, rains, and we can't, and we won't be able to command natural processes like viral diseases and pandemics. All we have to do together is try to respond as soon as possible and as best as possible to the situation that often changes in this uncertainty. But I'm not really gonna give you certainty. I'd lie to you, and that's not good. And I can't give you any promises either, because I would expose myself that I might not be able to keep it. However, I agree that we must all discuss this together and that we must all look for a way to face this uncertainty as best and as effectively as possible. We can't eliminate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, Minister. President Jakub Michálek will now appear and then Deputy Chairman of the ČSSD Club Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u24	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been voting here for several times on the extension of the emergency. At the beginning, when the country was in a crisis situation, we encouraged that the emergency situation should be prolonged. Then, when we found out that some government measures were not reasonably prepared or that the government was not taking the necessary measures at all, we had some doubts about how to proceed, and we did not want to sign for the extension of the emergency situation. And now we are in a situation that is one of the worse cases where we once again decide to prolong the emergency situation, even more so, the situation is still complicated by the fact that we have a new threat that the original virus from China has mutated us, it is referred to as the so-called. British mutation, so the situation is even more uncertain, and of course we have to consider that. [[11.50 hours]] We have come up with a simple criterion for making decisions within the parliamentary club. If we see that the government will actually show good will and begin to address the key issues that are needed to cope with the epidemic, some of which have not moved an inch, we will support the extension of the emergency situation. If, on the contrary, this continues to be done without any reflection, we will not support the extension. I would like to briefly summarize the situation on the basis of the data, then I would like to discuss the various proposals we have on this, and then I would like to comment on the continuation, conclusion or motion for a resolution. First of all, when we look at how the Czech Republic is doing, and according to data from our website Our world is in data based on Johns Hopkins University data, where they were actually the first in the world to properly start comparing international states, the Czech Republic remains a dark spot on the map of Europe. This must be said that if we compare ourselves with other countries within Europe, the Czech Republic is a dark spot in the middle of Europe. A similar bad situation or worse is in Portugal, and a similar bad situation is in the UK and in several other, much smaller states than the Czech Republic. If we look at our neighbors and the basic figure, or the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19, then all surrounding countries have a significantly lower number of cases of confirmation of the disease. Not to mention, of course, that only a part of the diseases will be able to be detected, and we are at some 50 percent level of positive tests, so obviously, testing does not really isolate people who are sick. On the one hand, the vaccine is at the heart of attention here, and I think the government is doing quite enough to get the vaccine at its disposal to the residents. But until we have the population inoculated, we have to deal with the spread of the disease. So I think we should also pursue the continuation of standard methods such as quarantine, testing and their development. Because these are the things that we can really influence. How many vaccines we get are things that are going to affect us significantly worse. So I think that areas like standard hygiene in workplaces, tests, compliance and motivation to keep people quarantined are things where we really have a lot of things that we can improve. When we look at the map, at international comparisons, the Czech Republic is moving in the long-term seven-day average to be relevant data, around 700 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. So I'm always going to talk about data that is related to 100,000 people. You can think of it as a larger city, such as Olomouc, has 100,000 inhabitants. If you want data for the whole Czech Republic, add two zeros. So in the Czech Republic we have 700 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, while in Slovakia they have 350 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, and in all the neighbouring countries of the Czech Republic the situation is even better in terms of the number of diseases. As far as the number of deaths is concerned, the Czech Republic, with 15 people per day per 100,000 inhabitants, is in a similar situation as Slovakia, but already significantly worse than for example - in fact, we die three times as many people per day as in Austria and twice as many people as in Poland and one third more people die than in Germany. So as far as the number of deaths is concerned, the situation is definitely very bad compared to other neighbouring states and we are approaching the worst countries, which are Portugal and Great Britain. Now I wanted to move on to what we can improve, because the vaccine, as the Minister has actually outlined here, is about 1.5 percent inoculation, so from the point of view of handling the situation and the data in which we are today, has not been reflected in them, and are really only the result of how the population behaves and what measures are being applied, how the measures are actually being followed and how the removal of people from society, their testing and closure into quarantine or isolation works. And then, of course, there are the not-so-good results I was talking about. We have identified a group of measures that we have discussed with the Minister at the meeting, which I can divide into approximately five groups. Firstly, it is necessary to motivate employees to comply with the quarantine because we are faced with cases where people do not want to go into quarantine to lose their source of income because of the lower amount of sick leave. After all, if we look at the statistics, half the population lost part of their income during the pandemic. So it is not possible to counter this situation that affects people's livelihoods. So we came up with a proposal for a measure to increase the amount to 80 percent of the hospital's ten-day quarantine so that people would really be motivated to follow the quarantine. The second, very extensive area is how we manage to motivate companies to engage in the fight against pandemics. Since the workplace is next to a family that we will hardly regulate effectively, there is really only a good word for it, so the workplace is one of the few collectives where we can actually apply the health and safety rules at work as well as in the field of hygiene and the fight against cod. And we can motivate companies to test more, just like some companies do voluntarily. Of course, it costs money, and it's worth it for those firms to be financially motivated. And if they're motivated to do that, for example. By getting some tax discount and investing the money in the protection of their employees, it can, of course, be a positive result for the Czech Republic. Because every case we're able to pick up, then it contributes to the fact that it doesn't go into our hospitalized numbers and it doesn't threaten the health system. So the other big area is to really implement effective testing schemes, for example, we have had some antigen tests here within the Chamber of Deputies, but to make it part of these really big organizations, that they will deal with this thing on a daily or weekly basis, so that the most problematic cases can be caught. The third area concerns crisis legislation. Yesterday, we presented our proposal to the Minister of Health for discussion on how - this is a specific proposal in paragrafo - how the crisis one-off law on the management of the COVID-19 pandemic should look like, so that we can define a pandemic state that may not be as broad as the classical emergency situation where the government can, for example. decide on foreign exchange and take far-reaching measures that are not necessary to manage the pandemic at all, so that we can adjust our liability regime to the Chamber of Deputies, report delivery, disclosure of data, and what measures are being taken by the government, what measures are being taken by the Ministry of Health. These are all things that should be built for sure. And how, of course, measures of a general nature issued in the fight against the pandemic are reviewed so that the judicial review is effective. I am convinced that this will also help the Ministry of Health and Government, because if we have a two-instance review there, where it has to go first to the Municipal Court in Prague, then only to the Supreme Administrative Court, and the proceedings are dragging, then, of course, the government is in doubt, and it would be appropriate for the judicial review to be swift and effective. So this is a matter of crisis legislation that needs to be updated. With this covid here, we're gonna live in a large area of at least half to three quarters of a year, where it's still gonna be a major medical problem. So I think if we could do it in an accelerated procedure, for example. in a state of legislative emergency, adopt a law that will regulate this on the basis of the outcome of the agreement of the MPs, so we would get into a more transparent and predictable environment. [[12.00 hours]] The fourth heading concerns the targeting of measures, whether it is a curfew or various restrictions on business. There we would really like to replace surface measures where it is possible and where it is well thought out. We had and saw the Prime Minister's speech, who said that we would never go back to covering measures, and in things that would go far more thoroughly, we are going back to covering measures. I'm sure we'll all remember how the pubs opened before Christmas, which was, of course, pressure, and it's a good thing there was some adjustment, but whoever saw it in real life, as it looked, that the pubs were crowded and it wasn't there, like they had in the States, where they handled the epidemic, that every other table was crossed out and couldn't sit there, there were a lot of pubs, restaurants and other similar catering facilities, where they simply closed one lounge or didn't distinguish places where they couldn't sit, and there really government couldn't, although it was nicely adjusted on paper, so it couldn't have fully written into social life. I think everyone's been there for themselves. Similarly, a curfew that is across the board means that after nine o'clock no one can be out, even if they go for a run or something like that, because they didn't make it because they were at work all day. Of course, all these strict measures lead to a reduction in the degree of compliance and the degree of people taking them seriously. And if we want to manage the pandemic, we really need people to respect those measures, and they need to be set up to be proportionate, and not if we put those people in quotation marks together with these strict measures, so of course they're gonna find a loophole and they're gonna blow them off, and so on. And I say this, of course, in the knowledge that it is necessary to limit and make it impossible for those forbidden restaurant facilities to be replaced basically by some private parties and so on, of course, it is not desirable. But it is about the proportionality that must be maintained within the framework of these measures, so that it is consistent with constitutional order. And the last, fifth point, is about publishing data. I would like to thank the Minister for his promise that data will be published on an ongoing basis, as is today being published on the spread of the disease, as well as the dates of vaccination, so that there are no arguments in society that the region has received more vaccines per capita than any other region, so that we can see what interest is in different age groups or interest according to professions. So this is five points that we would like - and the Minister mentioned a number of them in his speech, for which I would like to thank him - to sign up for the future process of the government. And if we really feel that there is a clear commitment from the government to improve the situation, then we are ready to negotiate an extension of the emergency situation. At the same time, I assume that some of the points that I have mentioned here will be read as a accompanying resolution or another part of the resolution, so that the Chamber of Deputies will make clear the will that the government should seek greater motivation to comply with the quarantine of workers, and I am thinking in particular of positive motivation, support for sanitary measures and testing within organisations, companies and so on, a clear legal regime, management of epidemics and better targeted measures in the fight against pandemics and publication of vaccination data. I assume that these matters should then be reported by the government at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'd like to conclude that if we see the goodwill here that we need to do something about it, I'm going to go to the meeting of our parliamentary club and I'm going to try to support it, provided that we have the competence to manage the pandemic, in this case, to prolong the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u25	Have a nice noon. Now, with the opinion of the ČSSD MEP, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Then Minister Jan Blatný will prepare himself with priority rights. And I warn you that we are still with priority rights, there is no debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Dear Government, emergency, of course, this is no secret, we all know it, it lasts from March 2020, with little breaks. And that's a long time. People, employees, parents, seniors, businessmen, salesmen, nurses, workers, students, all of them turning to us MPs, and my fellow Members from the MP's club with a number of worries that are really the impact of COVID-19 on our lives. And there's no doubt that COVID-19 has changed our lives. We are doing everything we can to get the lives of our citizens and citizens back to normal as quickly as possible. And it is a sad reality that, after almost a year of fighting COVID-19, we actually lack the time to deal with this epidemic as quickly as people would like. People, as they turn to us in letters, e-mails, phones, but also in conversations, even if we are left with much smaller quantities than we were used to meeting and discussing, are turning to us with ever greater misery and despair. I would like to say my personal experience, and I think that you will all confirm it, I do not see any anger or aggression there, but rather a really growing disaster and despair, I would often say from adults and strong people who, of course, fight, how they can, to preserve their profession, to retain the strength to continue to function, to work in business to do it, but still truly outweighs misfortune and despair. Those aren't strong words. That's just the way it is. And we're all tired. We can do business here during further emergency negotiations with the sections, laws, mutual training of coalitions - opposition, but in the end we have nothing left but to get together and help solve what citizens and citizens ask of us as quickly as possible. And I think that these are the four major areas of our lives. The first is certainly the most important, and it is the main reason why the Czech Republic still has to be in a regime of great social contact and normal life restriction, and that is that our primary task is, and we stand up for it, protection of life, health, safety of people. The truth is, without all the measures that we have at the moment and we have to bear, we would not be able to ensure sufficient safety, health, the lives of as many people as health nurses and doctors in our hospitals can handle today. It is a sad truth that without volunteers, the army and the irony of renewed work obligations of high school students and universities of health professions, we would not be able to provide health care as we manage, and the victims of life would be much higher. I'm not saying this to scare. I'm not saying this to simplify the situation. I'm not even saying this to pretend it's normal to prolong the emergency again and again. I'm saying this because it's reality and it's our loved ones who fight for their lives and health in hospitals thanks to nurses and doctors. And we have to keep reminding ourselves that the enemy is COVID-19. And he's a vicious enemy. [[12.10 hours]] I would certainly ask, and here I think we have reserves, and we will definitely turn to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and to Karel Havlíček, the Minister of our coalition government, to make more - more - see to the second circle of problems that we are dealing with at the moment, and that is the work and working conditions of employees. I'll admit that I've talked about this several times while prolonging the emergency situation. And here, as we also listen to the people who turn to us, I see the largest reserves in the workplaces, the working conditions of employees at COVID-19, because most - most - of course industry, but also a large part of the services, remember the salesmen and salesmen, still running, running in full mode, there is no lockdown, and we have a duty to ensure that they, as part of their work, feel as safe as possible to give the logic that if they are so limited to their other rights, so that as employees they can be sure that they can safely transport to work by public transport there and back, so that they can be sure that they have available and effective protective equipment at the workplace, so as to make sure that employers ensure antigen testing systems, so that they can be sure that, in particular, large companies, but very soon also small and medium, they will also be involved in the system of time, including possible vaccination where it will be of course, and voluntarily by the employees' parties. These things I've calculated, colleagues and colleagues, I must say I miss them. And I think it's time to not just say it here at the counter and challenge it, but really make sure that most of our employers, businesses, fabric and businesses, but also the shops and services that are open respect this. I must say that we are being approached by a number of employees with specific incentives, which unfortunately show that not all employers have understood how serious the situation is, how important it is to ensure these conditions for an effective fight against COVID-19, and unfortunately they prefer this irresponsible behaviour at the expense of their employees. And I must also say that more and more from the point of view of this information and letters, also personal, telephone, as people turn to us, the fact that they are forced to conceal enough information concerning, for example, the case of COVID-19 and the disease of COVID-19 contacts, and I fear the Minister of Health must admit that the current data and statistics show us that apparently not all contacts are reported as they should be reported with regard to how COVID-19 is spreading populations. And I must tell you, of course, that the question of the loss of wages and wages in the case of quarantine is, of course, one of the parts of this fake coin, because, of course, the situation is making relations in our workplaces worse. Employees point out that those who report them properly are aware of the seriousness of the situation, positiveness and contacts, so they are often blamed by their co-workers for betraying them or for losing part of their income because of them. I think that this situation is not unhealthy, but it is absolutely abnormal, and I fear that it stems from the fact that we have not been able to reach work that is still running, to operate, businesses and services to ensure a sufficient framework of conditions, working conditions in COVID-19, and I personally consider it the greatest debt and I believe that the Minister of Industry and Trade towards employers will ensure an agreement which will respond functionally to the fact that COVID-19 is here, and where work, employment and operations are running, security must be ensured exactly the same way that we take care of it in the first place from the point of view of health care. The third round is for me and our education club. Here we join the colleagues' voices that for three quarters of a year, when schools did not really go to the presentation class and, of course, teachers, teachers, students, students and parents all together tried to ensure the quality of education in a distance or online way, so we all understand and we know that it is not the same. Here we were talking not only last week on the school committee, but we will continue in an emergency call tomorrow - I thank the Minister of Health and the Chief Hygiene for trying to provide us with the best possible information and solutions, but here again I would also like to call on us to be able to do so. For three quarters of a year, the school's "dog" has been set up to ensure that schools are open to the fullest possible extent, of course under epidemiological measures, even at the highest levels in the fight against the epidemic. First of all, it is the first grade of primary schools, small-class schools, of course, that is related to this, but also to the last years of secondary education, whether gymnasial or professional, but also to the final years of teaching. That's where I'd call for it. And I think it's time that we better adjust the right to education and the right to health protection to some mutual harmony, because the effects of blackouts on children's education can really be disastrous, and I think that the adjustment of the most difficult level of five "dogs" is in this direction, and I believe that our health care officer and the Ministry of Health can find such conditions together with school experts, but also the mayor of the community. We, in terms of social democracy, are trying to do this. We are trying to help, find solutions, and I believe that even on the school committee's ground plan, not only the diaper of this House when dealing with the emergency situation, we will soon rebuild such solutions to people. In education, I would like to say that we often forget and little about it, colleagues and colleagues, not only do we speak, but above all we act on the fact that a number of schools are open. All the time kindergartens are open, more or less all the time special schools are open, but we forget that completely, I would say, most often, diagnostic institutes, educational institutions and children's homes are open all the time. Here, too, I would like to remind you that from the point of view of the system of ensuring the safety of workers, protective equipment, antigen testing, etc. etc. I see reserves, and I think that as much as covid is still sadly with us, and I fear that he will be with us all winter and even in the spring, he simply will not disappear from one day to the next, we would lie to each other, so we also need to work these things out better in order to manage the situation. The last round is free time. I have to say, of course, the frustration of people lately, and we probably all understand it on our own and in our family, often comes from the fact that while leisure time has basically been reset, abandoned, and I would say almost completely, and of course it is not a natural thing for people to function like this, at the same time, as I mentioned in the previous points, work in most operations, fabric and companies goes on, let's say at full speed. And I think, and this is also something that scientists have been talking about lately, that for sustainability and for us to be able to continue to endure various restrictions and to fight COVID-19, we need some balance of restrictions on work and restrictions on free time and setting conditions at work and in leisure in terms of some system for the future, so that we not only have light at the end of the tunnel, but that we can, unfortunately, be able to function and live in such a changed society. I would be delighted if these four systemic changes, which, in my view, in so long a time to combat COVID-19 and the emergency situation we must have worked out, were completed as quickly as possible, and I believe that not only will the Social Democracy MP club do everything for this in the coming days and weeks. And, of course, the ministers of this coalition government. Finally, I would like to thank all those who, of course, at the moment, bear the limitations of emergency status, and I believe that setting these four systems of new, quoted, life with COVID-19 so that we can see the light at the end of the tunnel and be able to function in terms of protecting our health, our work, our education and our free time, which are four factors that we absolutely need to restore or approach the restoration of normal life in the state that we can do this. [[12.20 hours]] I want to say that, of course, crisis and security laws, constitutional changes and other rules, as called for by colleagues from other MPs, and of course, as Social Democrats, we are reporting to this task. I have announced this, we have agreement with colleagues across the political spectrum that we will use not only political negotiations at the level of political party leaders and MPs, but also the permanent Commission for the Constitution and experts we have in this area to work off this debt as quickly as possible, and let us say that the general rules of security and crisis management had new and sitting on the current fight against pandemics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u27	There. So now, with Prime Minister Jan Blatný, it is the last application with priority rights that I have, so in that case I will open a general debate and prepare Mr Lubomír Volný. Now, Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only briefly about the data that has been interpreted here about the Czech Republic. It's just one of those typical examples where there's a misunderstanding. At least to a misunderstanding. The Johns Hopkins University server is certainly a highly respected server and it is one of those that delivers or that tries to at least retrieve data as it is really published and does not attempt to manipulate them. It's like a very trustworthy place from my point of view. Al! If I'm going to present one number, I have to look at the other numbers. So I'm going to take advantage of what my colleague here said about the Czech Republic and the number of newly diagnosed patients in which Germany is really much better off in quotation marks than we are. In other words, it has a lower number of reported newly diagnosed patients. Please note that in Germany, unlike the Czech Republic, it is not mandatory but voluntary reporting of results from laboratories monitoring it. And according to ECDC statistics, the Federal Republic of Germany has a significantly smaller number of tests, including Johns Hopkins. If a person looks at the side data from the same page, they'll find out by 19. 1. Germany has reported 1,700 deaths per day on its 83 million inhabitants. 1,700 dead a day. That means if I count the number of people in the Czech Republic, it's over 200. Specifically, if we took 83 million Němec and 10 million Čech, the ratio would result in 204 people dying in the Czech Republic that day. 204 didn't die. Not to mention that death is shown in a completely different way, but even though we show everyone who dies of a car accident and has a covid, as a man who died of covid, we have about 150 dead that day. This means that Germany currently has significantly higher mortality rates than the Czech Republic. And if you put these two parameters into correlation, where in God's name are the dead taken from them if they don't have any new infections? This is merely proof that every country, and it is a mistake of European statistical systems, which unfortunately - I have also talked about it with Minister Spahn, unfortunately there is no standard in Europe as to how to report these data. Everyone shows it differently, and in that case, and once again I have to stress it, those who show it honestly are worse off than those who show it dishonestly or who simply do not have a set reporting system like this. Please don't criticize German colleagues at all, no way. All I'm saying is that we compare comparables. What really goes well is death, because you're not going to discuss it. So from my point of view it is also very well correlated with the fact that at that time Germany has about 14 percent of the spare capacity of its intensive care units, the Czech Republic has over 20 percent. So just so we don't just, you know, rubbish on each other for nothing, that's all I can think of. So we don't deliberately criticize each other because it's not like it's not. It really isn't. And the virus is spreading very similarly throughout Europe, and the Czech Republic is not worse off. And I'm not saying that because I'm the Minister of Health right now, that's a very fleeting function. I'm just saying this - especially here - I'm only saying this because as a scientist and a university teacher, I've been working with these data for years, so I'm pointing it out. [[Fun in plenary]] We're alerting you repeatedly. It also involves reporting cancer, it also involves reporting everything. So just please, if we're working on the data, let's get this job done, look at it comprehensively, and try to get out of it objectively. And finally, and I will say once again, there is no way that this is a criticism of Germany. We, if we don't act responsible, we can be in the same situation in a few weeks. So I'm far from criticizing Germany. Germany, on the contrary, is aware of the serious situation, and at present Mrs Merkelová is doing as she does. If I were her, I'd do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u29	I do not see such preferential rights, so I am now opening up a debate. I have five Members on the floor. So I am the first to call on Mr Lubomír Volný to speak and to prepare Mr Václav Klaus. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u30	[[Member. Free comes without a drape and before the speaker stands the sign with the sign: End of the loom emergency condition!!! We support targeted measures.]] So hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, colleagues. I would like to thank my colleagues at the beginning of my performance and ask them not to disturb me. Thank you. To thank all those who sincerely and without secondary interests are engaged in managing this situation. That means paramedics, soldiers, police officers, as well as many scientists who supply classified and often suppressed information very often. I'm going to introduce some of them today. However, I will share with you the mood in the society that I experience in my social bubble and in my surroundings, and there is a buzz that this government is not incompetent, because we all know that it is full of intelligent people, professionals in the field, executive managers, people who have had a successful career. And yet those nine months, or in those nine months, they were able to produce so many mistakes that we've been talking about them for almost three hours today. There's no point in repeating them all. But to make such a media shame on yourself that, as Prime Minister of this country, you allow the citizens of this country to buy underwear, and you consider it something that you must especially report to the nation, is really so incredible in a man who controls a multi-million-dollar empire that few people believe that he is doing this because he is stupid and has an incompetent team. A lot of people don't think it's a coincidence anymore. A lot of people already think that this government is merely carrying out some transnational task. That this government is heading for a recommendation from the World Economic Forum called the Great Reset. It is official information that you can verify on the website of this organization. There are even ministers of the Czech government who have this book on the great global reset exhibited behind them at the moment when they are giving interviews to the media. So this mood among many people in the Czech Republic has a rational basis. Members of the government know about the plan for a major world reset, the members of the government are watching this, and the members of the government are deliberately showing this book in their talks. They are even members of this government who spread misinformation and lies. Minister Blatný is spreading a lie that vaccination guarantees infectivity, which is not true. Unfortunately, this points to what I said here in my past performances, how little is a common doctor, but also a specialist educated in the field of vaccinationology. Because a common doctor is only learning a few questions in this field in a few trials, but in depth this is not taught by future doctors in our high medical schools. And if a person is not a directly specialist vaccinationologist, then he can be a really great expert like the minister here in his original profession, and he doesn't need to know anything about vaccines, as he himself has shown his disinformation that he has spread in the media. [[12.30 hours]] Mr. Metnar has been spreading disinformation here, once again in the media, that covid is spreading in small stores, even though it can't and doesn't have any proof. On the contrary, there is scientific evidence of a person who is deeply educated in this field, whose name I will tell you in a moment when I find him who found interesting facts in his research at the Brno post office. [[Looking for a recording]] He found that 12 hours after passing through this post 2,600 people, he failed to find a single virus in this post office on 20 surfaces including air. I'm going to try a little experiment here because my information is very often referred to as unbelievable, so let's see if it works. If you don't, I'm telling you. [[He's replaying the recording into the microphone.]] Thank you. That's information from profesor RNDr. Omar Šerý, CSc. Further information on vaccination can also be heard directly from Czech Television, because I think you will probably not blame me for this as some disinformation source. [[He's looking for a record on his cell phone.]] You know, it's not that simple, but the truth is important. It's coming. [[He's replaying the record.]] Thank you. This was for a change Mr. profesor doktor Vojtěch Thon, D, on Czech Television. I hope he ever shows up there again in the future, it won't be his stop sign. Another misinformation, or rather a demonstration of how some government officials are educated in normal life, is that Mr Havlíček does not know where the birth number is used everywhere, that it is used as an identifier for health insurance companies. Another misinformation that none of the government officials spoke up to and disproved in the media is information about how the Ostrava crematorium is collapsing. She said that again on disinformation server Novinky.cz Mrs Rážová, who said that crematoriums have sufficient capacity, Ostrava has problems beyond covid. No one supported the Chief Hygiene of the Government in this, at least I don't know about such a media appearance, and if there was one, I will be happy to apologize to the minister who demented such information in the media. The coffins and dead bodies clogged the morgue and the crematorium, terrified of the mass media. But it's not the pandemic, says the head of the Czech hearse, and he needs to know. The problem has been going on for five years. So he is not actively opposed to information about how something terrible is happening in the Czech, Moravian and Silesian countries, and any other critical information is being exaggerated. From the same source, from the head of the Funeral Services Association, we have his statement. We've increased the deaths of people who haven't died with covid, says the head of the Funeral Services Association, Mr. Mangl. Spring Lockdown stopped being treated. Experts warned we'd get it back in the fall as a boomerang. And they were right. And what is Mr. Blatný doing today? Mr. Blatný - you can disprove this, Minister - threatens hospitals that are prosecuting non-acute care, which means that they do not have a problem with covid patients, that they will not be reimbursed by interventions outside acute care for covid patients, and let's say accidents and other acute matters. Are you sure you don't want to cash in on these procedures, Mr. Secretary? Even if they are, these hospitals don't have a problem with covid patients? Anyway, how come some hospitals are overloaded and some are completely empty? How is it that the system hasn't been created yet, in the nine months we've had this situation, a system that would lead to a flexible transfer of patients between hospitals that are on the verge of their powers, and hospitals in which they have virtually no patient to covid. The only thing that happens is that if an employee brings it to the hospital, he gets an immediate statement, very media-approved. I repeat, there are hospitals in this country that are prosecuting emergency medical care, prosecuting planned procedures, and, according to my information, Minister Blatný has threatened to make sure that health insurance companies do not pay for this emergency care. You will, of course, have the opportunity to comment on this, Minister. When we have discussed the misinformation that some government officials are spreading, and we have learned that people are no longer dying of covid, but they are also dying of covid-related measures such as neglected health care, such as complex mental and mental conditions such as complex economic situations, let us see what we are copying and what the Minister has announced here that he would like to copy, that she would do the same as Mrs Merkelová in Germany. In Germany, mandatory wearing of respirators is introduced. Why? Well, probably because what we've been told for the last nine months that the drapes are sufficient isn't true. However, in Germany, I repeat this as I did in my previous performance, people are said to be more disciplined than we Čech. They wear drapes, they don't go anywhere, they don't throw secret parties and stuff. Yet there is a situation just like what the Minister has described now. We think that the only way in which we can handle this situation and how we can save this country's economy and many human lives is through voluntary isolation and liberation of the republic from meaningless lockdowns. [[12.40 hours]] In this country, we have about 3 million people who could be classified as a risk group. Every day of the lockdown, today we hear, it costs us one and a half billion crowns. We propose to create a system of voluntary isolation for people who feel threatened by this disease, which the state will contribute an appropriate amount to first motivate them to stay at home and, secondly, to cover increased costs by providing their needs through services that will come to their homes. For us, we considered the sum of CZK 3,000, which is 9 billion a month. If we take the 100 billion that that lockdown is going to cost us at least, we'd have a voluntary isolation program for ten months. Everyone in this country will be able to decide if they belong to the endangered group, whether they want to do this voluntarily or not, and others can go back to work. Because let's remember that about 97 percent of all deaths are in the age category of 55 years plus at least one of three health problems such as high obesity, heart disease, or diabetes. As far as vaccination is concerned, I have some positive information here first, which has also completely disappeared in our media space. A short article was published on the news server News.cz But I didn't notice it was Mrs. docent doktorka Irena Koutná, ph D was invited to the Czech Television to report on her research, which found that memory immunity protects at least a year after losing the covid. The result of her research is that after you've lost the disease and your organism has established a population of these memory cells, you've been protected for at least a year and maybe even a year and a half, maybe even longer. It's a fairly long story, you'll find it on the list. One question was: "Isn't it true that people who had a mild course of illness will not be able to defend themselves next time? " The docent responds. "On the contrary, most of the samples that we now had available from the second wave showed us that even in humans with a very light course, or even without symptoms, cellular immunity was created and remained." Another question, which is very often referred to as the argument received by the associate professor, was: "This brings me to the idea of whether people who, on the contrary, are able to multiply the virus on the mucous membranes cannot become the so-called supertransmitters, who can then burst into the vicinity of the large virus charges. " Mrs. Professor, because she's a responsible scientist, she answered. "I have no research to confirm such a hypothesis." What she said about the docent's immune system. "In any case, the basic immunological rule is that the untrained immune system - " which we do not train because we wear drapes - I say it is not in the article - "is a slow and lazy immune system. The viruses we know help us train our immune system. Even against what is potentially yet to come and what we do not yet know." These may be the favorite mutations that are supposed to scare us. "Those who know they've had the disease don't need vaccinations right now," is her opinion. "And as we said, even those who have suffered it mildly or even without symptoms." What happens to these memory cells when the person who has them in his body, the person who has suffered the disease, gets vaccinated? "The patients have already asked me that. I really don't know what that does to the immune system when these two things happen in the body." The professor doesn't know, because she can't know, and nobody in this room knows, because no one in this room can know. "And I dare say no one knows today." Those are her words. "We discussed this here, we invited our immunologist, and all I can say is that we don't know." So much for the professor, the science doctor, Irena Koutná, ph D. [[He's flipping through the materials.]] We discussed misinformation, we discussed immunity, how we can free the Republic in our opinion, we also discussed it. There was information about Sweden that they apologized in Sweden for failing to handle any of these situations. I've noticed one apology. Unfortunately, there are too many victims in our institutions in Sweden as well as in the Czech Republic, that is, in senior homes. Otherwise, Sweden has passed through a coverless covide, without draconian lockdowns and the ratio of deaths per thousand inhabitants is roughly the same as in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, Belarus was where any lockdown was rejected through the offer of billions of dollars from global financial organisations. There was no lockdown, no surface measures, no restrictions, and according to the latest data it appears that fewer people died in Belarus this year than the year before. Covid is certainly a dangerous disease, however, covid is a viral disease and viral disease have already had such a long academic history, or so long have been researched that some things apply in their treatment always and everywhere. Then I have a comment about cheap treatment. Cheap treatment is constantly suppressed in this country. We were enthusiastic, with great media fuss, treating patients with Remdesivir, an experimental drug that had no proper clinical trials, and yet we didn't even know if the patients in the Czech Republic were receiving Remdesivir, or whether they were receiving placebo, and we do not know for sure today. However, we have information about drugs that have been used for decades, are generic, can be produced by anyone like Isoprinosine or by the latest news of Ivermectin, which in many cases helped patients with COVID-19. And these cases are traceable, and the people, or the doctors who used these drugs, are ready to communicate. Some even try to do so by all means in the available media. How is it possible that we were able to try Remdesivir, and how is it that we haven't done a clinical study in Isoprinosine long ago? Who's stopping it? Who doesn't want to find out if this drug is effective or not? Who has a financial interest in this, economic or political? How is it possible that this did not happen when top Czech immunologists and vaccinationologists repeatedly point out that the drug exists and that in their experience it is effective? Who doesn't want simple and cheap solutions to the covid crisis? One of them... [[He's gone silent and he's looking at his cell phone.]] One of the information that is well known is that even people with low levels of vitamin D have a harder course and big problems with covid and very often die. More information that has completely died out here in this scream about the only possible solution, which is a vaccine, is another solution that we can get intravenously, and that is intravenous administration of vitamin C, which is lege artis in the Czech Republic as well. According to SÚKL, seven and a half grams a day. [[12.50 hours]] Dr. Mao, who was head of the ER in Shanghai, treated patients who had moderate to severe covid progression with intravenous doses of vitamin C. They got 10 to 20 grams. Not a single patient died in this group. Dr Mao offered his information to the public right at the beginning of this coronavirus crisis. I personally sent them to the Prime Minister of this country immediately to Mr. Babiš. He replied: He knows about it as if doctors know about it and use it. I would ask Minister Blatný if it is true that in the Czech Republic, covid treatment is used by intravenous administration of vitamin C. Because Dr. Mao, who is an existing person, is an Američan of Chinese origin, is a man who was born and graduated in America, currently has practice in China, was chief of emergency and offered this information for publication on his social networks and was immediately blocked. So here again we have another information about a covid treatment device that can't hurt anyone is legal and legitimate, lege artis, even in the Czech Republic according to SÚKL up to 7.5 grams a day, and with the probability of playing with certainty no one uses this cheap and simple treatment again. Then don't be surprised that people really develop these feelings and this mood, that someone globally does not want a simple and cheap solution to the covid crisis, and that there are people here who are likely to help this plan, this big reset, with a taste. However, the problem is that if people died because of the government's incompetence, it would be a manslaughter if they were acting because of the government's bad intentions, it would be a completely different activity. At the end of my speech, I have a little surprise for you ladies and gentlemen. I have an offer for you. I have 200 candies. Since there's half a number of us here today, you can each take two and three of them contain something you don't like, but I won't tell you what it is, because even if you're going to get vaccinated, you won't know exactly what's going on with you. So you can try it. Maybe I was just like Pfizer and maybe just like Pfizer was being proven and convicted of it, politicians, journalists and doctors all over the country globally, and like Pfizer killed children in Africa because he illegally tried untested antibiotics on them and had to pay compensation in Nigeria, yes Pfizer killed in his research, it's a very unethical company, so maybe even I would have a taste of someone... No, I don't, it's really just candy, so you can raise your blood sugar completely safely and calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u31	Now I'll read the apology. The Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, asks to apologize for his absence, for working reasons today from 14.30. I've got another priority right here. It's come up here. He is Vice-President of the Club, Mr Dominik Feri, on behalf of the MP's TOP 09 Club. Sorry, I see factual points. Hang on, I'm sorry, first of all, Mr Pavel Kováčik's point of fact, and then Mr Dominik Feri is in line, but at the same time you are in line with the priority right, so then you can choose. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if those candies happen to contain the ivermectin we were talking about, I'd take it for my dog against everything and fleas. That's just so easy for the debate to take place. I would like to be sure, because the motion for a resolution to prolong the emergency for 30 days was expressed in the opinion of the KSČM MEP, presented by Mr Ondráček, and repeated the motion for a resolution just in the debate. The proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies approves the extension of the emergency at the request of the Government, by 14 February, that is Sunday, within 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u33	I would just like to point out that the factual points are not in accordance with Section 109, but however, President Kováčik had priority rights anyway, so it is okay. I'm just pointing it out. Now with priority rights, Mr. Dominik Feri. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not gonna talk to you until this afternoon because what happened here was absolutely incredible. Mr Free, through Mr President, you are a selfish idiot because you speak without a drape - without a drape! - on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u35	Please address the Members only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u36	I did. Because you don't have a piece of elementary taste and you don't wear a mask for your speech. That's absolutely unbelievable. We may disagree, but please, let's follow sanitary measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u37	I meant it as a little bit of a knock, no matter what opinions, so that we don't share in vulgar language here. That was just a subtle thing to do. So we are now in a classic debate. I am opening up a classic debate and a Member of the Václav Klaus will speak. Mr. Marian Bojko will be ready. I certainly do not evaluate the content of individual speeches, only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I want to maintain a certain culture of expression. Ambassador, I'll call a break at 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u38	Hello. I will briefly comment on the emergency situation in this endless series we're experiencing. First of all, it's quite obvious that we're heading towards some kind of permanent lockdown. Even the opposition is tired, the same as standard, and the power is not resisting. The minister always gets tired of reading that everything goes on and not seeing the end of the light. I would ask, Minister, one question. Is the strategy based on the fact that the dangerous situation here is going to be a few weeks, or is it going to take months or years? Because the way you're acting, it looks like you're totally counting on it to be a couple of weeks. Let's just hang on a little longer, and something's gonna happen. I'm convinced it's not that sure, but obviously from the way you're getting off, what you're doing, it seems that way. At first, your strategy was to be a smart quarantine. Here in the House, there was talk about it from the left to the right, all the government officials were talking about it like a wheelbarrow. Turns out there was no such thing, and at the first onset of the viral epidemic in the fall, the system didn't even try much to get going, the state didn't do anything about it, didn't call people to work there, didn't try anything. There were a few relatively, I think, high-quality software to write it down, but the smart quarantine collapsed. Then a traffic light was invented by your predecessor, Mr. Vojtěch Adam, and then he was invented by you. This PES again, what we're going to tell ourselves, it just doesn't work, it's about the fourth or fifth time modified, it's going to introduce a new degree, a sixth degree, and now we're a few days in the fourth grade, but nothing's going to loosen up anyway. So that's a strategy that just doesn't work. And the next mantra, everyone's talking about it, is vaccination. So far, I've noticed at Vánoce that there weren't many fairy tales, and I've been watching these things go through the suitcases and who's first to be vaccinated and who's second. Well, let's be honest, it's going to take years at the current rate of vaccination. We need to vaccinate these people twice, the virus vaccine supposedly needs to be renewed after a year, so before it runs out, we're gonna start vaccinating those older people again, so it doesn't look like much of a strategic solution to the problems. When I quote, today or yesterday, Israel's top vaccination coordinator stated literally - I quote: "The effectiveness of Pfizer vaccine is significantly lower than stated by the manufacturer and expected. " I don't know if there's a conspirator in your eyes, but I read it today in the renowned media, a direct quote. So again strategically - why did we resign from buying the vaccine or even try to develop it? We have the Academy of Sciences, and here we put a bunch of billions of crowns into research. Why don't we at least have research, which vaccine is better, which is worse, how effective, until when? So it's just politics, just psychics. There's gonna be some fool who's said to be anti-vaccinating. It's not me, but that's it. But really? Well, they're not vaccines. In those parts... There's another report today that the van's down again. And frankly, Israel has already had one third of the population vaccinated, and the number of infected has not fallen, on the contrary it is higher than in the Czech Republic. We have similar numbers in Britain. I, in a purely human way, would expect the news to come: so in Britain and Israel, health professionals are no longer nearly infected, older people... But there's no such thing. Well, don't be surprised that it makes people nervous, and it doesn't seem to be the solution. We were gonna open up here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u39	[[He's coming in.]] I'm sorry, we've got 13 hours, so I'm gonna have to interrupt you, it's not a plan. So I'd like to announce a lunch break by 2:30 p.m. and I'd like to have a good meal and we'll continue. [[Noise and confusion in the hall.]] There's a break by 2:30, an hour and a half. There's a break till 2:30. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the adjourned 80th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Before I give further details, Jana Maláčová apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for working reasons of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We will continue to discuss a single point which is included in this meeting, and this is the motion to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies with an extension of the time of emergency. We interrupted this item before the lunch break in the debate. It is recalled that according to § 109m para. No committee procedure shall be held in accordance with Article 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act in the context of the accelerated negotiations on a proposal to express consent to the extension of the emergency situation. De facto remarks cannot be made in the debate. The Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to the Members responsible for bringing the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter. So we will now continue the interrupted debate. Before the midday break, Mr Václav Klaus' speech was suspended, which has the possibility to continue. However, it warns me that no member of the government is present, so we cannot continue our negotiations, because the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies clearly states that the negotiations At least some member of the government is to be present at the Chamber of Deputies. So I'm gonna wait a minute, see if anyone shows up, and if no one shows up, I'm gonna be forced to interrupt the meeting. [[He's waiting a while.]] Members are coming, I don't see the members of the government. I welcome all the Members who come to the hall. Unfortunately, it looks like we're going to have to suspend the negotiations for the absence of a member of the government, so I'm declaring a break until 14.37 at this time. And then we'll continue if there's a member of the government coming. Thank you. And then we're on a break. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 14.32 to 14.37 hours.]] So it's 14.37, or the time we've interrupted our negotiations to come to us... I have information that Minister Brabec is on his way and will be here in five minutes, or some former ministers have been offered to me, but I don't think we can accept that. So I will ask whether we still insist on the presence of ministers, or whether the House is willing to continue negotiations with the information that the Minister is on his way and other members of the government are somewhere in the House. [[There are dissenting voices.]] We can't. Okay. Mr. Klaus has something to say? [[Messenger. Klaus is talking off the microphone.]] No, I think Vice-President Fiala said we can't continue unless the government is present. I'd wait five more minutes... Mrs Valachová has just signed up for me. Anyone interested in anything other than a five-minute break for the next minister? No. Okay. In that case, I'm declaring a new five-minute break until 14.43. And then we will, I believe, continue because we will have a member of the government present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u41	Yes, it is 14.43, so the break I have announced in order to reach the presence of a member of the government is fulfilled, I see that more than enough, so that Mr Klaus can continue his speech. Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We've already begun to act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u42	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present here the position of the Tricolor to extend the emergency situation, the Government's proposal. I was interrupted shortly before lunch, so in short, I'm just going to repeat it, because I'm not a robotic founding, so I can't stop halfway through the sentence, and I'm going to make a smooth connection. The first idea I believe is that we are heading towards what permanent lockdown, because, as you can see here too, the atmosphere in the House - the apathetic standard opposition, the government, even in such a tired way, informs us again and, more or less, as proof of the mathematical induction, prolongs and extends the emergency situation further and further with some desire that everyone get used to it and it was normal. We don't think it's normal. Secondly, I raised the question of whether the government is strategically considering it as a matter of several weeks that we need to overcome, or whether we will be in this difficult situation for months or even years. It is quite obvious that all the measures the government is taking are aimed at 14 days - just hang on, hide on the couch at home, and we'll sort of wait, it'll get better in some way. I'm not sure that's the case, and I think we're supposed to talk about strategies in a situation where this situation is going to last for a long time. The government's strategy to date, if I sum up, can be divided about this: in March and April, I think we all supported the measures that the government introduced, one as another, but from that May, I think there is a turning point. First of all, we've been very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very emotional about the House's performances, that the smart quarantine will solve everything. Turns out people were just fooling each other, there was no clever quarantine, it wasn't triggered. Then he was very popular in his time of traffic light and after the arrival of Minister Blatný's PES system, which had already been modified about four times, or three times, when the Minister corrects me, now another amendment of the "dog" is going to look a little bit different again. And let's also be honest that the "dog" doesn't have much to do with it. This was introduced for the reason that people and businessmen, businessmen know about what's going on, they can prepare for something, but now we see that a few days since it's in stage 4, but the government simply says that no, that nothing will loosen up, so nothing will loosen up, and that makes the PES system more or less unnecessary. So those were the strategies that -- neither of them worked. Thus, the most popular vaccination strategy is by far now. I think that has the broad approval of the majority of the population. Of course, I also strongly support that people who feel threatened should be vaccinated, etc. But let's say that the prospect of solving problems universal here is not great either. So far, when we see the rate of vaccination, when we see the reports on how the vaccine is going to be less than expected, it looks like it's going to take a few years at this rate. Even if it gets faster, we have to realize that every person has to be vaccinated twice and after about a year, if I understand it medically, people are re-inoculating against viral diseases. So, in fact, the grandfathers, the grandmothers would go again, and we wouldn't achieve that goal. It is also a big question whether people vaccinated no longer spread the virus or spread it. That is what wild debates are about. I don't want to be a judge, but I'm not so sure it's that people who are inoculated can't spread the virus anymore. But one way or another, we have countries that will inoculate far more massively than we, Israel, Great Britain, and I would humanly expect positive news to come, that there are no more infected in Israel, or absolute minimum, etc. Instead, we learn that Israel has more infections than the Czech Republic, and yesterday, as you may have noticed, the head vaccination coordinator of Israel said that Pfizer does not work as the manufacturer states and as expected. Of course, I don't know, maybe the Minister will say it's some bad conspirator, but that's information, and there's no better news coming from Britain either. So I'm just pointing out that it can end up like a smart quarantine and other measures, that it won't be a strategically perfect solution to the problems, and maybe we're just trying to balance the population a little bit. We wanted to open a topic here in the House to protect more vulnerable groups, or talk about changing the government's strategy towards protecting the most vulnerable people in retirement homes, senior homes and the like, and to relieve people of healthy, schoolchildren and others. Just change the strategy. The second thing I wanted to open was a change in strategy for greater activity. When I was young, maybe there was a civilian military service, and a lot of these young guys helped out in hospitals, schools, retirement homes, things like that. So I would understand that the government is somehow raising the impulse for activity, is an emergency situation, and really everyone has to participate, especially the healthy and the young, but I don't see anything like that. They're always just calls for peace, some bans, and I really wish we could turn the paradigm into that kind of reasoning. I know there weren't enough nurses in the hospitals before, but the nurse's training lasts four years, or should it always take, so it's changed a little bit, and now we've been in it for a year. So there's a plan if the pandemic lasts two years, three years, four years, that we throw some significant part of that 500 billion into having more nurses, etc.? So I really miss the activity. A lot of people, when times are tough, can do something else. When the war was over, British women worked in shell factories, and they were no engineering experts. But you actually, half the population is waiting at home at home and we're watching our brave doctors and sisters whether they can do it or not. I think that every society must actively face the danger and involve as many people as possible. And that's not happening. And instead, all we do is close and it's such an apathy. I can't agree with that. Half the people who don't sit in the House can work in the tracking center, just try to lift the country up. We're in big trouble, we're dying a lot of people, we've got huge damage, so it's like some kind of war or something horrible, so this country has to get up and start fighting it, like, anyone who can, and protect the weak. I don't think it's happening that the government's trying so hard not to offend anyone. They see that 40 percent of people are as happy as they are, supporting these measures, so they're leaning on them as they are, and more or less nothing. [[14.50 hours]] I'm skeptical of those government statements that often sound less from Minister Blatný than from Minister Hamáček: we stopped. We just stopped something after Christmas and stuff. Well, I don't think that's true. With the same logic, you started something earlier in the epidemic, but it's quite possible that it's been freezing for a few days now, so the number of infected has fallen, and now it's such a bump, so it's going to rise again. I'm not saying I'm right, but a lot of viral diseases are acting like this. When the frosts are banged up, it's not much, and then it's pre-showed in some way. So there's no data, if that's true or not, but the government around here always feels like it's raising and reducing the number of infected by some lever. So he's been coming in and out of the virus for a year now. In the spring, many countries did not do much. The virus has retreated there as well as in the Czech Republic. The precautions. Honestly, there's a million people on the Prague subway every day. We can do that. Or it used to be, maybe less for the covide now. Well, that's possible, but two people on a lift in the fresh air can't go. But I don't want to talk about it that much, but it's more like, is there more infected, on the subway, because of that, or isn't it? Do we have any data, we're trying to measure it with the help of our scientists and some officials, hygienists, or do we resign? The only data that is that the epidemiology situation in Prague looks a little better than elsewhere, so it probably doesn't have any impact. But we're just closing something, leaving something open. Dozens and hundreds of workers in some big factory can work, two waiters can't work. Same logic again. Sophomores are in school, third graders aren't. And this way we can go one step at a time, and we really won't find any scientific basis in this. And I think we have to have it. I just wanted to - it didn't go through a few votes - but I wanted you to prove that third graders are infected a little bit and sophomores are a lot. Then I must nod my head and say yes, it is a great weight and we must proceed like this. But I'm afraid you don't have any data of this type, and no one's researching them. But when it turns out that those infected among those groups are the same, there's no reason not to open up to third graders and other schools. I'm coming to a conclusion. So most of these decisions are political. Don't mess with the most important groups of voters. We've got to let this go, not this. We can wait fatally, but I don't think we can liquidate hundreds of thousands of places economically. The last thing we don't want to support in continuing the emergency is that the company is divided. It is divided into a large number of people who are very concerned about the disease and, secondly, are often not affected by the economically current lockdown. Either they have a guaranteed income from the state - we Members, but not only of course - and more or less their life flows similarly. But then there's a huge group of people who are just down and in economic despair. Often, paradoxically, they are poor people who work occasionally. They don't get much government help, so that's the second part of the company. And the company is divided. That the half suffers economically horrible and the other half doesn't suffer much. I think that society is supposed to be trying to be coherent, and it's not possible to transfer that cost to just part of society because it radicalizes it terribly. I once stood up for Mr Feri when he was physically assaulted. Although I often disagree politically with him, I will say the second thing now. The company doesn't even defend itself with such things that it's completely beyond the edge of going to someone's house and bringing them something there and screaming something. It is to be demonstrated before the House or on Wenceslas, but again society is to defend itself against such excesses. But it's the result of half the population making fools, conspiracy theorists, and total freaks, and often people desperate who don't know which way to go. That's the other reason. We do not want to support this state of despair and waiting, not an emergency, and we do not support this government strategy. We would urge her to change in the spirit in which I spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Mr Feri has now signed up with priority rights, then Mr Bojko. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow ministers, why I respect the Minister of Health very much is that he is present, that he is just here. It is an important topic for his resort, is present, answers questions, tries to listen. That's exemplary. Then there's the Minister of Industry and Trade, who apparently already has a salami. An emergency situation is being addressed, which makes it conditional on the adoption of crisis measures that fall into the national economy, he is not present. He's not here. And this is the second time, please. I remember exactly when I said that last time I extended the emergency situation - where is the Minister of Industry and Trade? That's absolutely unbelievable. And just like I said last time, it's not because of us, it's because of those people. It's because of the people that the government restricts business. And the signal it's sending, that's pretty clear. And unfortunately, I am very sorry that he is not here, because the Minister of Industry and Trade in the media said that the opposition should stop criticizing him and start working. Well, that's wonderful. He probably goes to another House, or he doesn't go to another House. Because the opposition has been putting forward concrete bills for ten months, as well as outside legislative matters. I took the liberty of sending it in writing to the Minister of Industry and Trade, to read the thirty things we suggested to recapitulate. Don't let him walk the world and say: the opposition is just criticizing us. Well, whoever wants to see it, that's how they see it. In March, we proposed a contribution to the CFI without employees of CZK 45,000, the remission of contributions - that is not necessary now, for some unknown reason - to postpone payment of income tax for 2019 to entrepreneurs, that the state will pay sick leave, deferred VAT contributions, remission of rent to entrepreneurs in the premises of cities, municipalities and other state institutions for a period of three months, defer payment of loans and mortgages for the CFI, defer payment for energy, do not extend the time limit for the refund of VAT to 45 days. In the coming months Covid portal. Until autumn, there was a single place where the crisis measures were clearly described, what regulates the lives of all of us. Then two weeks later, we put it together with the volunteers. Indemnification law - we've got him here. [[15.00 hours]] A simple system to compensate for the measures. It's here. We'll have an emergency meeting next week. Is that nothing? Isn't that a job? Isn't that a legislative proposal? Minister Havlíček can't be serious. Extending the moratorium to carry out mobiliar executions. That's what I suggested, the House supported it, it worked. Postpone further EET. Allow people to vote in quarantine and isolation. That's what we've put together the opposition and the coalition over the summer. That's not a job? Postpone dues. Possibility to draw compensatory bonus to those of the self-employed who are engaged in small-time pedagogical activities. Also. We have proposed, we have approved, a consensus between the opposition and the coalition. Expansion of the infirmary for handicapped children over 13 years of age. The obligation to inform clients of travel agencies in a clear manner about their rights under the relevant covido law. Increase in Sick Bay from 60 to 70 percent. Extension of compensation bonus to DPP and DPČ. We have introduced nine measures to promote culture. Slighter, non-elimination fines under crisis law. That's what we're here to talk about a few days ago. Set up covideo hospitals. Those are the blueprints on the health department. We also introduced and sent specific proposals to the Minister of Health to improve the functioning of regional health stations. And together with my colleagues from KDU-ČSL from the ODS, we have created an AntiCovid team with whom the Minister of Health is dealing, he knows that we are putting forward these proposals, and he is trying, sometimes, to get along with us. There's no debate going on with the government that ministers would say, but look, Karel, look, they're dealing with me, and they're making these proposals? That's not happening. We have proposed to adjust the PES system so that it does not discriminate between traders by size, it contains a level zero, which means that there is some prospect of living without measures, and it does not require the system at all levels of emergency. We appeal to the publication of data, to the return of doctors to schools, to allow visits to senior homes, to strengthen KHS capacities, to give priority to teachers, and to call on the government, for example, to prepare vaccination centres and to publish the number of vaccinated every day. That's thirty things to choose from. These things are, I think, 150 things that the opposition has presented, concrete proposals, and the Minister will say on TV, well, stop criticizing, start working. Mr. Secretary, you start working. Start coming here, start taking care of these people. Furthermore, since the Minister of Industry and Trade is not present, I did not expect it, so I would like to address the Minister of Health. Today came the new PES, we of course got him to comment and we will also comment on him and it is one particular incentive which, I think, could help people. Because what we've been calling for in the long run is predictable and strengthening some certainty, that we can estimate at least, of course, with some probability of what will happen, what will happen, what we have to prepare for, when we should expect the shops to open, the services will open, the restaurants will open and when they won't. And I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be possible in any other modeling, i.e. if when the ÚZIS is doing some other development models, to take into account the new criterion hospitalized in the sense that it would be said in the future: we could get to level four in scenario one on this date, in scenario two on this date, in scenario three on this date. It's an estimate, we're not gonna criticize you because you don't have a crystal ball if it doesn't work out, but introduce some scenarios and say: look, pubs, pubs, you can open it at a level of three, and we'll get into it - theoretically - the date. And to take into account, of course, the British version, that it can be signed in some way, of course, in a significant way. But I would welcome that, and I would consider it reasonable, because this is how the system can be complex, and that it affects everything, but there is at least some perspective of when we get there. For a lot of people, I think, it was a bit disillusioned that they assumed that when we're already in the risk index at four, we're going to go to four, and now the system is being modified and, of course, people are frustrated that suddenly we're going to get to level five, because we're going to be in that proposal at stage five, if it's going to be more than four thousand hospitalized, which, unfortunately, is now fulfilled, and in this, the government could take this helpful step and say, look, this is what's waiting for us, then it's going to be better. Simply say: there is some light at the end of the tunnel. I believe that will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Mr. Černohorský, then Mr. Mihola, declared himself to me with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u46	Mr President, I would ask for a recess for a 35-minute meeting of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u47	[[A voice from the diaper.]] He's probably at the meeting... There's a request for a recess for a meeting of the Pirate Party Club. If there's no objection, I'll make a break to the club meeting by 15.35 hours, if I've got it right. Thank you. That's a break until 15.35 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the interrupted debate, which Mr Mihola has signed up with priority, then Mr Bojko. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. Of course, the Minister of Health is not here right now, too, because, above all, I wanted to address him in my contribution, so I hope that he will still come during. Our President, Marian Jurečka, commented on the extension of the emergency situation under KDU-ČSL, so I will just add a few comments. I can say for myself that I see the situation as serious, and I certainly never downplayed it, nor do I intend to downplay it. And it is certainly legitimate and necessary to discuss an emergency situation. But also explain. Patiently explaining. The way I see it, we've been dealing with this -- the many times the Prime Minister said -- six or seven times the lengthening of the emergency, so we may be dreaming about it, but the outsiders see it differently. And I think it's really appropriate to just go on and on to explain a lot of things, because they associate something with the emergency situation a number of times, at least according to the reactions that I have, which I don't have much to do with it, or just marginally, and then a lot of people don't realize what would happen if the emergency situation weren't, or what would complicate it and what would help. But that's the government's job to communicate this. He's got enough canals. So maybe there's not enough communication, or she's just not who she should be. And we know that communication is the basis for politics. At the end of the day, on this communication, I think that this cooperation here, too, on these days, months, or many months, is of the utmost importance to the solution to the covid pandemic, because it's quite cheap to say, once the Prime Minister says it, then some of the ministers say it: we are all on the same ship, we have to approach it together, but we will decide. Or we could take what's best for us. I understand that it may seem like idealism to somebody to think that it would go from left to right here, from right to left by combined forces, like it was back in Austria-Hungary, but I think we should at least try for some ideal, I think. The minister still hasn't come, so I'm gonna have to... He's on his way, so thank you, so I'm sure the chairman of the ANO Club will tell him if he does, or a fellow minister here. I am speaking to the government as a whole, of course. I wanted to assure the Minister of Health personally that I appreciate his approach, I say that repeatedly. That I appreciate that they speak calmly, try to work with data and, above all, try to have some concept, however much everyone can never please, and as we see it all over Europe, the solution is very complex. I kind of felt like if you knew the famous picture of Tizian's Karel V on a horse, like so-called. A lone rider. When I saw him here this morning as the only minister in that otherwise empty ministerial bench before another of his colleagues came in. And that's what I'm getting at. I think it's an extraordinary meeting, it's an extraordinary thing, and I would really expect that if the benches aren't completely full, they'll be filled for the most part. I say it for myself now. I've been sitting here really all morning, sitting here now, trying to get to the point, so I took the liberty of saying this here. So a few notes on specific things. Education. That's what really matters to me not only as a teacher, and I believe it's far from just me. I'm just afraid that, despite all the lockdowns and all the possible restrictions and closing schools, the impact on the quality of education will be completely unsure that we're going to be cured -- I don't want it to be the words that aren't quite pretty like that for longer than a covid, but I'm almost worried that I am. That education is just gonna be a big problem getting back to normal. Which is why I think that we should also open up the question of teachers' vaccination here in the first place. That's what I was going to ask the Minister to comment on. I think it's a good thing that, at least in universities - I'm very grateful for it - some kind of contact is possible, so maybe state women can run in limited numbers, that they can be tested in contact for strict rules, so thank God for that. But I think that it really is very important to think about the younger years, or the seniors and the last year of primary school, because, on the one hand, they have other important events ahead of them, but most importantly, we also have to think about the overcrowded families. I know what I'm talking about. At home, five children are obliged by school, and it really is when even in the morning a person takes care of a work phone, so my wife then reminds me that attention, children have online teaching, and I can't scream. It's just that the room isn't infinite, so it's very demanding. Cooking etc. Not to mention, but I believe you know it from your experience as well. [[15.40 hours]] However, I would like to appeal very much, and I therefore believe that the Minister may have heard from some media somewhere, to open the school. I don't really get it when there's some sort of release that it's just not possible for him not to learn a piano. Hello, Minister, I'm glad you've just arrived. [[Mud]] I'm talking about schools, basic art schools, that they're coming to me, and certainly not just to me, I'm betting that from the left side of the right, there are other colleagues, just really dozens, maybe hundreds of beggings; people don't understand what the problem is when someone teaches piano, has a drape, a pupil or a pupil also wearing a drape, and online, it's probably better than nothing, but I don't want to say it's a waste, but it's live. And the same thing, now you may have also registered a small class initiative. If their directors support this and say that they are able to ensure compliance with health and hygiene principles so as to eliminate the risk of spreading the covid, then I would trust them. I'd really give it a chance to at least give it a little bit of education, give it a chance to get back on its feet. 'Cause I know you can't do it all at once. And I can see the intensity that one of them says, "Oh, for God's sake, open up!" That's really a hand-cuffed e-mail. And yesterday it was too late and a month ago it was too late. And others say, "What are you doing? Leave it online! Do you want to kill someone? So I know it's conflicting, and the more important thing is that there has to be a strategy in this education. That's what I miss. And that's why I'm saying I'd expect the Minister of Education to be here, too. Because the Minister of Health here can't do everything, like I said, like that Karel V, a lonely rider. So please, for those elementary arts schools and this teaching, and for the little classes, and again for the forest clubs. Because they don't understand these requests repeatedly, and I can't explain why those who move healthiest in an environment where the risk of infection is absolutely the least of all, so it costs, and other things far more risky maybe how many times they run. As much as it deserves a strategy of education, sport in general deserves it, but I would like to go above all to the mountains. Because myself as a skier, or I support these sports activities, and my heart hurts when I see how deserted ski resorts are on one side and on the other, as everyone needs to get out, so everything is going on there and impossible. And if this has any end or strategy to go on, at least in a month or so, we just don't have to figure out that there's nothing left to ride, that everything's gonna be broken, engraved, just like it's gonna be after this natural use. In fact, I don't think anybody or the owners are gonna be able to stop the strain. So I guess it also needs to be about the regime, the rules. I believe those people, if they can reasonably explain it and with some strong appeal, will be able to follow it. I'd trust them. After all, as we were talking about churches here, I know it's a different situation, I don't know about the only situation that anyone's been running around, not following anything. It just follows the rules, it works, it's set, and there's no problem. I believe even athletes are gentlemen and we could do this. I'm sure of it. And finally, the question of the respirators that just opened up most recently. I understand and very often claim myself to follow patterns that have some positive experience, in this case Germany, Austria - although they also have their problems. But again, I have a lot of questions, phone calls, e-mails, that, on the one hand, the respirators are more expensive if there's enough, if they're available. And what about these people, they're worried about it, too, so I can take the city transport to work, or do I have to take a spare leave, or what if the respirator doesn't or I don't have one, or I get thrown off the bus? So even to discuss this matter more, to communicate more. The same, someone had already rejoiced that perhaps even cultural events such as theatres had many subscriptions. But if it depends on the tests, then if it's really necessary before every performance, when they've had them stacked up like this in the fall, then take the same test again when I think it's 48 hours, if I'm not mistaken. So I'd really like to ask the Minister for a reaction. I say, I appreciate his attitude, and I keep my fingers crossed to make the best of it, and also in some sort of horizon, so that the light at the end of the tunnel becomes visible. Thank you for your attention, and I'm asking for your reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. There is, with a factual remark, Mrs Valachová, but factual remarks cannot be applied in the shortened debate. And in that case, I would like to ask Mr Bojka, who is enrolled in the debate in writing. [[The MP corrects the name on Boyka.]] Mr Bojek, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u51	[[He comes without a drape.]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Especially you who look at us live. You know, I thought the only minister I'd praise for his work today would be Minister Zaorálek, but his performance convinced me that I wouldn't compliment him, because I'm here to say that people don't want or discuss emergency conditions, so that's not true. People keep asking me what the emergency situation is like, etcetera. [[15.50 hours]] And when I look behind me, it's just rusty. [[to the government bench]] We're discussing such important things here, and there are two ministers here. There wasn't a single one here at 2:30, so we had to cancel the meeting. For me, this is a complete disrespect for this House. And when I talk about the ministers, it wasn't that long ago, it was in October, Minister of Interior Hamáček, although he was proven to be in contact with a positively tested person or with an infected person, so he cheerfully took his red sweatshirt and went to the control room to run his police provocateurs for an event at the Old Man. Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček, who has one desire and vision, simply to punish Russia, Hungary, Poland and Belarus, doesn't care about anything else. Minister Brabec, as much as I appreciate him, I think that since Bečva is being dealt with, maybe Pepek would have investigated it by Vyskoč. Furthermore, Minister Metnar, who will lively say that the dangerous virus is spreading in those small premises. So I wonder where he got it. Where did he get any studies that spread in small establishments and not in supermarkets? Minister Blatný, he also missed last week that whoever's vaccinated won't actually be infectious anymore, which isn't true either. Now I'm wondering who I forgot, which minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u52	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you at this point, and I'd like to point out that there's an order that we should move around here with our cloaks. I respect your right of legal representatives to violate everything possible within the framework of freedom of expression, but I feel obliged to draw attention to that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Minister Havlíček, while running two ministries, is a total superman, as he doesn't even know the insured number is your birth number on the card, in the TV debate on Prima. The Prime Minister here is cheerfully saying that people are writing him how well they are with the compensation, that they even have more money than they had before. So I'd bring him some of these people, how good they are, who had their pubs, and today he's a bellboy in the restaurant car of the Czech Railways, others who worked at the casino, so he's sitting at the cash register in Tesco. And a lot of those who have these little pubs haven't gotten money, compensation since spring, since last spring. So, to tell you that someone's doing okay... I'm sure someone's doing well. There are those who import food because people now buy a lot from food importers, get richer e-shops and so on. Maybe they're having a good time in Agrofert or Penam, I'd believe it. There's always someone on the right-hand side talking to me about misinformation, misinformation websites and so on. And there's this huge misinformation going on here, and it's already been talked about by a fellow Volný, and it's actually about these crowded, clogged cremators. It was on January 9th: Cancers and dead bodies clogged the morgue and crematorium, frightening the mass media. No pandemic is responsible, says the head of Czech undertakers. The problem has been going on for five years. The horror and horror of the Czech mass media reports that crematoriums do not follow, although the furnaces go to full power, and that they are due to a huge number of dead overcrowded mortuaries. The President of the Funeral Services Association Jaroslav Mangl strongly opposed this claim. It's not the pandemic. It's a long-term problem that he's been pointing out for at least five years, which we've been pointing out five years ago, but no one has heard us at the time, says Mangl in an interview for the iDnes portal. This portal was also involved in the dissemination of alarm reports on flooded crematorium furnaces. And the problem is that there was actually, I don't know, a reconstruction of one furnace. In fact, they come to us from the county, or from the Moravian-Silesian region, which has 1,200,000 inhabitants and has one crematorium, so they cremate their dead and Polák. [[unintelligible]] Actually, there's a little bit of Polish border, so it's cheaper in the crematorium in our country, so this just happens. Funeral institutes and crematoriums do not have sufficient cooling capacity for the deceased in the long term. The situation where dead bodies have to be moved elsewhere or perhaps buried later is absolutely common and unrelated to pandemics, explains Jaroslav Mangl's Chairman of the Funeral Services Association with the fact that there has been no such media theatre in recent years. And it was mentioned that the mass media lie in the numbers of the dead. The mass media are strongly inflating all information about the alleged pandemic, which is denied by all statistical data. The number of cases of influenza and subsequent deaths is increasing every year from September to March, then falling into vacations. This has been the case for centuries. The same is true this year, only the flu is replaced by the name COVID-19 and the tests that measure it are modified by experts. However, there has been no increase in the number of deaths throughout 2020, but there have been deliberate misrepresentation of mass media reports on the number of infected and deceased with covid. 2020 has been with 117,000 deaths in 26th place in the last 55 years. Spreading fear and hysteria is killing more people than imaginary pandemics. Jaroslav Mangl commented on the mysterious fact of why there was a sharp increase in the number of dead people in November when the number was on a gray average for a whole year, although the media told us that there was an apocalypse here and there would be many hundreds of thousands dead on the streets and in ice cream cars. We've increased the deaths of people who haven't died with covid, says the head of the Funeral Services Association, Mr. Mangl. Spring Lockdown stopped being treated. Experts warned we'd get it back in the fall as a boomerang. They were right. In November, therefore, people were probably dying because of the caronavir hysteria rather than the corovirus itself. Thus, the increase of the deceased in November this year is most likely due to the neglect of treatment of other diseases and the fear spread by the mass media, particularly among the elderly - the weakening of immunity, the absence of inspections. There has also been a delay in operations. If it wasn't for this jump - a cure worse than a disease - 2020 would have been on average over the last ten years, and in the last 55 years it would have been around 35th place. So no pandemic, just a hologram to create fear and demand for vaccines for billions. The mass media massage readers and viewers daily with distorted data on the number of infected without indicating the number of deceased, even overall without giving cause, or at least those where COVID-19 has proven to be related to cause of death - pneumonia, heart attack, cancer. So far, only on COVID-19 did no one die in the Czech Republic and that the category of death with covid included cases where the deceased had covid, but it is not stated when, intensity or whether it was related to death. It's the impression of monstrous data misrepresentation. The source is iToday - interview Mangl, iToday - bags and corpses. So it's obvious here that these numbers are being tampered with. From the very beginning, it was just everyone who had a little sense in their head that it was nothing but vaccines. [[clear]] A few years ago, Professor Prymula claimed that drapes are useless, that it helps spread the virus, that it is not good to wear the drapes. Why was the swine flu in 2009? At that time, most paramedics refused to be vaccinated with a pig flu vaccine, and the vaccine for 110 million was destroyed because the paramedics refused. And I think it's gonna be in this situation, because I personally know three paramedics who work in senior homes, and they told me that if they were gonna force them to vaccinate against their will, they'd quit. Makes me wonder who's gonna take care of those old ladies. Probably an army. About what's happening all the time. Every opinion that is not in line with what the mainstream media are pretending to be, is immediately trampled into the ground. So I'd like to read you something here about Kubek and Roman Šmucler. We have two medical chambers in the Czech Republic. One brings together doctors who care for the oral cavity, the other one. Each chamber elects its president. While the president of the Czech Medical Chamber is MUDr. Milan Kubek, a trade unionist rather than a renowned specialist, is head of the Czech docent Chamber. MUDr. Roman Šmucler, candidate for science, dentist and internationally recognized specialist in laser and aesthetic medicine. Both presidents in the Coronavirus period are expressing themselves on current public matters, with neither epidemiologist, immunologist or virologist. [[16.00 hours]] And here's where we come up with other differences. While Kubek is one of the biggest promoters of all possible and impossible restrictions, restrictions and lockdowns, Šmucler is much more restrained in this respect, with his leads largely based on careful study of foreign experience. But then there's another difference, the most important one, even directly for our media reality. While the dozen doctor Kubek practically doesn't come off the screen and haunts the population almost daily, Šmucler, a public-service Czech TV specialist, sort of sublimated, just vanished. While Kubek is almost considered a medical capacity from his chamber function, which he simply is not, the president of the second chamber of Šmucler, who is such a capacity in his surgical and orofacially oncological field undoubtedly, is, on the contrary, called as in the quotation marks a dentist, as if his daily bread was a drilling seal, which, unlike the internist Kubek, is likely to be unfit to comment on current medical-social issues. In a similar way, profesor. MUDr was expelled from public discourse. Jiří Beran, CSc, profesor MUDr. Jan Pirk, Professor MUDr. Jan Žaloudík, CSc, and many others. Why is this happening like this? Because Šmucler and the others are saying something a little different than what is an alibis political faction and what serves the mainstream media stream for unknown reasons considered the only right opinion. In fact, there is no single right opinion. And the most correct thing that they can do for us and for the media society in general is to give a balanced space to different opinions, or to mediate their conflict. If the media, and in the first place, do not do Czech TV, embezzle their mission and, moreover, the Czech TV also embezzles its obligations under the law. Nothing good can come of it. And if we look at the reality around us, we have to admit that he's not even coming in. I'd like to comment on why a lot of people don't trust the vaccines and trust the doctors. This is where we got lost in the covido period, I don't know if you followed the case, it was a case of bribery between doctors and pharmaceutical companies when 200 people were charged. Of that, 151 were doctors. In 128 doctors, the prosecution was then suspended on a conditional basis. According to the NCOZ spokesperson, they confessed to the crime, expressed regret about it, were not convicted in the past and pointed out assistance to victims of the crimes, one and a half times the amount for which they were prosecuted. Together, they paid approximately CZK 20 million. Amazing time to buy indulgences. If you're rich, you can buy and stop your prosecution. I would like to point out here exactly why people do not trust doctors when they claim that they are not afraid of anything, that vaccination against coronavirus is safe and has no side effects. Pharmaceutical companies have no problem corrupting doctors on their side when it comes to millions. What are they capable of when it comes to billions or hundreds of billions? Likewise, doctors do not have a moral problem to prescribe what is beneficial for them and not for you. That you won't get the best cure possible? It's okay, but they'll go to the sea with their family for it. The koronavirový pointed to a real problem, and that is the moral marasmus in which we have been found for many years, when the state does not support any real human, nor national, values, and the only venerated value is money. Thanks to the fact that our society is experiencing both a moral crisis and an identity crisis, there is also the greatest craziness within the so-called European values section. Coronavirus has become more a symbol than a danger, because for one side of the spectrum, it is an opportunity to promote totalitarian measures, and for the other, it is a self-determining struggle for true freedom, even at the cost of its own health. My thesis is that I'd rather be a sick single man than a healthy and strong slave. Everything is openly directed towards establishing a vaccination apartheid and from cautious people like me, they will become citizens of the second category, for which both social and systemic pressure will be exerted, which will aim to force them to be voluntarily vaccinated. We are witnessing a worldwide coup. The countries took over corporations and central banks and the virus became a tool of terror. One of several hundred diseases was chosen and a new religion was built around it. The world was subject only to and exclusively to a supposed pandemic. There are no more diseases, no more problems that plague humanity, only coronavirus. It will be very difficult for mankind to get out of this situation because it is not quite clear who to fight. While during the war and communism the enemy was open and tangible, it is now blurry, unclear, completely unspecified. Who to focus on? To government, banks, media, pharmaceutical companies or Google? And especially how to fight? On the Internet? On the street? At the store? How do I do that? The circumstances are extremely unfavourable, because our civilization has never faced this type of enslavement before, and the most powerful forces will do anything to keep us as long as possible in fear and illusion. Meanwhile, people around us keep making the same mistake and asking how long this madness will last. When will it be over? Like desperate sailors, they're looking for a land on a rocked boat. There's no point in looking at things like that. The old world won't come back. There's no way the transformation's going on. It's gone too far for us to get back from this journey. Now all you can think about is what form this will eventually take, how great the degree of enslavement will be, the course of the border line on us, because they will go as far as we allow them to. Unfortunately, so far after the first months of testing, they know that they can do virtually anything. We gave our country no shot. I really did not expect such a humble and human dignity humiliating reaction. In front of our eyes, totalitarianism is born, which will last at least a few years. According to my estimates, it will take ten years, which is by 2030, because this date appears everywhere, in WHO documents, the UN, on the websites of governments, foundations and other global agencies. This is a marathon operation, not a sprint. Changes will be introduced slowly after small steps, gradually, after stages. They're going to tighten the screw, and then loosen it up a little bit. They take two steps forward and one step back. Changes must take place slowly enough to get used to each of them. Like a dog whose leash gradually shortens, after a while he does not even realize that he is obediently walking at his master's foot. Everything now looks like the layout of the pieces on the chessboard before the main attack. First they block people's mouths and forbid them to gather, then gradually destroy entrepreneurs, destroy the economy, lead to the tragic death of thousands of people who do not receive medical care in time, kill them literally physically. More and more talk about the need for mandatory tests and vaccinations. Meanwhile, they're building isolation sites and changing the vaccination bill so they can vaccinate everyone without their consent. We've been in the most serious situation since the end of World War II. There's one thing I'd like to say. In fact, it's no longer speculating, it's already said out loud that masks aren't helping. Anyone who had to sew them at home is helping you so against the cold, against the droplets, but certainly not against the viruses. And that was clear from the very beginning. And now we'll probably have to wear respirators in bulk, in offices, and so on, maybe in employment. And who's gonna profit from it again? Who's got the companies for those respirators that cost at least 100 crowns or more? You're giving them away for free? How's that gonna work out? Eventually, we'll be walking in suits or gas masks. For me, I am clearly saying that the data is simply artificially overrated. No one has ever been able to study that it's spreading so brutally in schools. Open those schools to the kids. Open up those schools, 'cause the schoolchildren who are home, the ninth graders, they go out anyway, they hang out. Not to mention kids are stupid. My parents are crazy, the paramedics are quarantined, they're home with the kids. Graduates are supposed to do a year's work from practice. What practice if they don't have one? This will mark us for decades. And I don't want to end up like education in England, where 15-year-olds are on a mental level like our 11-year-olds. I experienced it on my own when people who went back to the Czech Republic went to the ninth grade and here she was happy to be put into sixth grade because she then studied at home for a year to pass the differential exams. It's just that education level in England is somewhere else than here. But if it keeps going like this, we're gonna be exactly the same. And maybe that's the point. And this is where the companies go bankrupt. It's beautiful, we're filling up with montages, as Mr. Dufek wanted, the union boss. Just make 30,000 pubs go bust, we need those guys in the fabric. So that's the plan - to destroy the middle class, destroy businessmen, tradesmen. That's how brutally we put civil servants, pensioners, and people who create a gross domestic product against each other, so we're gonna completely destroy these. And no subsidies will help you. [[16.10 hours]] People don't want subsidies, they don't want money, they want to work. They want to work, they want to go to school so they can go to fun, go on vacation. Today the conservationists and the good tourists - and I'm rooting for them, I have a friend who runs out on Lysa every day, 365 days a year, I take that - and these guys swear that suddenly there are so many tourists in those mountains. Well, don't be surprised. Where are you supposed to go today with ten-year-olds, 12-year-olds? You can't go to the pool, you can't go to any playroom, no playroom. All you have left is to sit at home by the computer or just go up to the mountains. That's why the accumulation on those mountains is like this now, but there's nothing we can do, people just don't get anywhere else. So I say clearly, we open schools, open lifts, winter resorts, hotels. Because there are dozens of thousands of people vaccinated on the example of Israel who had a brutal lockdown several times, and now we learn that 13,000 people who received the first dose of vaccine were equally ill with covid. So what good is it then? What good is that? It's information that appeared in the media. So 13,000 people got sick with covid, even if they were vaccinated with the first dose. So you can see the lockdowns aren't helping anyway. And if we follow this "dog" thing, we'll never make it to stage two. Never. And we'll be in a lockdown for the rest of our lives. So definitely not for me. And I would propose a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies that the emergency situation will be lifted with immediate effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u54	Such esteemed colleagues, dear colleagues, good afternoon. I'd declare a five-minute pause so we can disinfect the speaker's counter. I would like to draw attention to all Members who appear without a drape that they are fundamentally violating the rules and putting their colleagues at risk. If you want to threaten yourself, please do so, but don't threaten others. You should set an example. Shame on you! I'm calling a break until 16.16 and I'm gonna ask the service to disinfect this place. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16 to 16 to 16.16 hours. Disinfection of the speaker's desk, the chair thanks.]] So it is 16 o'clock 16 minutes, the board has turned off, so I do not know if it is a technical problem, but Mrs Hyťhová can speak in the debate anyway. [[The light's on.]] Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members, honourable Members, Dear Government... Well, Mr. Health Minister, because you're the only one here for our government. I would also like to comment on the request for another 30 days of emergency. I remember coming here a month ago, and my only request and request was - was, therefore, not even fulfilled - the opening of schools. We, as trikolóra, have already proposed a point called opening schools on Tuesday. Unfortunately, it was not only adopted by four votes, so it could not even be discussed, which is a great pity that there is no great interest in our pupils returning to school. So the request was not answered. And I must say, the government has done nothing in this regard in the last month. The fact that our students don't take anything from distance education is a complete fact. And what about our seniors who are supposed to be graduating in a few months? What about our ninth graders who are supposed to be getting ready for high school exams? And it seems to me, dear government, that you have completely forgotten them. Or does the quality of our education mean nothing to you? It is for me, because I am an educator, and it means a lot to me. I'm still waiting for the data that was promised here. I am sorry that Minister Plaga is not here today, and therefore he cannot answer any questions or specific things that I would like to know the answer to, explain why first graders, second graders go to school, and third graders, fourth graders, fifth graders don't. Why can't the entire first grade go to school? I'm still waiting for the data, to what extent it has been proven since last year, when the epidemic began, if the teaching really threatens those children, if there was widespread coronavirus, to what extent. We don't have data until today. And that's why I don't understand why schools are closed. My parents text me all the time, text me with a request so their kids can go to school. It's interesting because until a year ago, the kids were happy to be home and off, and today they're begging their parents and asking them when they can go to school and if they're still going to school this year. Of course, I'd like to know that answer, too. [[16.20 hours]] I'd like to ask Minister Plaga if he were here, what does he say about the demands of, for example, the school associations, if he even listens to them, if he consults them on the procedure in this situation, because I think at all, because he would know that, for example, the association wants both seniors in schools and ninth graders. And they would also like to open small-class schools, not only to 50 pupils, as proposed, but also to 62 students or 67 pupils, simply to open small-class schools. These are such big priorities, for example, by the associations of schools that have not yet been heard, and I think they are also the wishes and requests of our students and pupils, because they would also like to prepare for school for exams, for graduations, and they are simply not allowed to do so. So, as I said, I stood here a month ago and I said I couldn't, and we can't support the emergency situation behind Tricolore because the government here is obstructing the opening of schools and we don't actually know the relevant data. Therefore, even today I cannot support the emergency situation, because the government cannot guarantee us and has not guaranteed us that it will not continue to threaten the quality of education with these emergency conditions, which I consider to be absolutely trivial even in the sense that I am a educator. So one more time. I will not support the emergency situation, and I therefore call on the government to take clear steps towards the association of schools as well as to pupils, students and parents of these children who would like to hear the answers when their children can go to school, etc. So thank you for your attention and goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. Next will be Mr Jan Jakob. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr President, the only one present, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming here from the communal and regional level among you. I am used to being brief and factual, so I hope that I will be considerably more concise than many of my previous speakers. At both municipal and regional level, there are people in self-government who help in this situation and are ready to continue to help. But what I have to say from my experience is that it's very trivial that information doesn't travel to us that communication isn't going on properly. The fact that this was not done three quarters of a year ago at the beginning of the pandemic is still understandable, but now a registration system was launched a week ago. Our teams at City Hall were ready at the edges, and none of them knew exactly what would be entering the system, how it would work, how it would work. I find that completely trivial. Since we know he's gonna be inoculating for a long time, the system started preparing for Christmas. Well, that turned out well, unlike the road signs, but it's obvious to the government that you're not working. And it is disrespect to those who work on lower levels and communicate with specific people. A wise statesman would communicate in such a situation, in an emergency, with the opposition. He would reflect on her proposals, deal with them, and many of them, if they were of good quality, would accept them. Unfortunately, Mr. absent Prime Minister, through Mr. President, you are used to working at micromanagement level, I would say fierce micromanagement. Roughly because you're still promoting it, and relentless in your way of work. Unfortunately, this is what comes out of it, and forgive me, forgive me this expression, patláma, patláma, that then no one really knows what is true in the current situation and what will happen next day. This may be how you can manage your companies, but certainly not municipalities, not regions, and certainly not stand in an emergency state. If you were talking to the opposition, seeing her suggestions, I have no doubt that we're all on the same page right now. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and I cannot support the proposal to prolong the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. The next will be Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your way to yourself. Mr Marian Bojko doesn't have to be ashamed because he's not a member of a corrupt political bunch who throws up in his mouth whenever the point is that he might lose his socan positions in government. You have shown here several times what kind of cowards and hypocrites you are -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u60	Mr. Ambassador, either you speak to the point, or I'll shut you down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u61	I will speak as I will. I am the elected representative of the people! Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u62	Either you talk to the point, or I'll shut you down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u63	So I'm gonna go sit on your lap and tell you right into your mike. [[Resurrection in the hall, some of the MPs are banging on the benches.]] So... [[He's turning to the President.]] I'll be there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u64	[[Ironically:]] Well, come on, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u65	So if anyone here has anything to be ashamed of, it's you! We know what you're called in Karvina. Hanzel desítka. Why? Hanzel, that's your name and ten...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u66	Comedy live. Then I'll ask security to come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u67	So, Mr. Hanzel desítka - Mr. Hanzel ten, I'm sure you won't shut me up! [[Mike mop. Hanzel turned it off. Both appointed are overpressed by the microphone and its control.]] Okay? [[Mr Chvojka comes to help, turns off the microphone and is roughly pushed away by Mr Free. The Free Member has turned the microphone back on and says:]] I, as an elected representative of the people, have the right to express myself. If you go in here, you'll get sloppy! Okay? [[Microphone off again. Members of the Free Member are trying to remove Mr Veselý, other Members are coming, as are the security services. The Freeman has swung his fist at one of the present, followed by a tug-of-war. The Free Member once again speaks:]] So I warned you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u68	[[After a while, he's going back to the meeting place.]] I'm declaring a 15-minute break in 16.45 hours. And I'm gonna ask you to keep this place clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u69	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 16.45. We will continue with the adjourned negotiations. A moment ago, this hall, in which Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk was elected the first president, experienced something he had never experienced before. I took the trial as a colleague who was physically assaulted during the meeting. I never thought I'd live to see something like this. I thought it was easier to ignore and move on, and apparently we can't ignore some things. Mr Lubomír Volný, who has been repeatedly instructed by my colleague Hanzel, is hereby banned from the Chamber until the end of the day in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And while we're at it, and it doesn't matter, I remind my colleague Bojko that he doesn't wear mouth and nose protection, he's most likely trespassing, and I'm asking him to drop this act, or he'll also be banished from the hall. Can you hear me, Mr. Ambassador? Please secure your mouth and nose or leave the O.R. Of course, this is not the end of the matter, followed by disciplinary proceedings with the mandate and immunity committee. I'm sorry for all of us for living to see this. Well, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Then, with priority rights, Mr. President of Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to strongly distance myself from this meeting. I must say that the SPD does not want to have anything to do with this negotiation, and we will not have anything to do with such negotiations, nor with these Members, nor with Mr Volný, we strongly condemn such negotiations, and I hope that the level of this negotiations will never be repeated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Mr. Válek Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to apologize very much to my colleagues in the coalition for myself and for all of the opposition, because we do not have to agree with your opinions, we do not have to support the emergency situation, but we all respect your views, we consider you to be correct partners, we consider you to be correct colleagues and we will do everything we can to ensure that the right things that you propose are approved. And I hope that all those who have looked - through Mr President - at the primitive who uses brachial violence as an argument, now you understand who defends the opinions of the deniers of the existence of coronavirus and the need for vaccination! If you feel the same - I do not have a decent expression for this - as through Mr President Mr Volný and his colleague, then yes, do not be vaccinated! Darwin wins because evolution wins!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u73	I hope the rest of the negotiations, or I am convinced that this will never happen again, and we will continue. Otherwise, please note that factual remarks are not possible when dealing with an emergency situation. Mrs Válková, Mrs Valachová, will be prepared for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, I do not speak too easily right now because I have been an eyewitness, as has been done here, precisely, by brachial violence on Parliament's soil, which I see as an attempt to reduce the dignity of our actions, and it is certainly not a good example that our public sees. I am very sorry, but all the more so in these performances we should place emphasis on being an example rather than a repulsive example. So I'm going to follow up on what happened, maybe something that's just the opposite, and it represents it, those attitudes represent the opinion of a part of the public that isn't always in line with what the government is promoting, or would like to enforce, and what it would like to convince, sometimes it's doing more, sometimes less. And it also happened in the House attic. It was January 5 when we had a public hearing on the ground and actually under the auspices of the petition committee, when Daniel Landa presented as representatives of thousands of petents, I suspect that at that time it was already 20,000, that it was growing, the dissatisfaction of part of our public, and you here, mainly the opposition, timed it, tilted all morning and afternoon, what the government is doing wrong, what the impact not only in the economic sphere, but also in the psychic sphere it has on thinking, life, attitudes, feelings of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. The hearing was conducted in a completely constructive atmosphere. It was very important, and I still want him on this speaker's counter, I didn't count on it, but now I want to thank him for it, because that was the real contrast of what we saw here a while ago. Because even though there were hard arguments against certain measures to limit fundamental rights and freedoms in the context of an emergency situation and at all doubts about the need for an emergency situation, it was conducted and resulted mainly in the conclusion to the atmosphere of a completely constructive and to the proposal for a joint approach and the offer of a certain cooperation. And the cooperation, we promised as members of the petition committee, will take place - I would just ask for peace, Mr President, I can't talk here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u75	Yes, I'll ask you, dear colleague, after we've been here for a while, we deserve to behave with dignity, calmness and negotiate this emergency situation in a peaceful atmosphere. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u76	I will try to shorten this introductory word in the sense that I think that even if we can have different opinions, we can present them in a way that corresponds to an advanced political and legal culture that I sometimes doubt, but mostly I believe exists in the Czech Republic. We invited Daniel Landa to the meeting of the Committee on Petitions on February 2 to present to us the specific measures and specific forms of cooperation that he offers. And he represents a part of the public that is very dissatisfied. So democracy has these faces. But what I wanted to get off to and what I had prepared for is an interpretation, short but hopefully understandable, the need to have an emergency. Because there are also different fake news, rumours, and I am sorry, but completely misleading false information about law or so-called quasi-lawyers, by which I mean those who only read the text of the provisions, but do not understand the context. The restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms is possible, but is precisely set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. If the Charter allows it directly - it is Article 4 (1) (a) of the Charter. 2. - the limits of fundamental rights and freedoms may only be governed by law under the conditions laid down in the Charter. And, of course, a number of articles in the Charter state, if necessary in a democratic society, that law can restrict this right for reasons - and there are also specific limits that allow those rights and freedoms to be reduced. At a time of emergency, which is the constitutional law of 1998, number 110, on the security of the Czech Republic, we will find in Article 6 (1). 1: At the same time as the announcement of an emergency situation, the Government must define which rights laid down in a special law and to what extent they are limited in accordance with the Charter and which obligations and to what extent they are imposed. The details will then be laid down by the law. I'll skip the next part of my analysis. But if we are in doubt, which authority has what competence, the law refers to Article 6 (1) of the Act. 1 of the Czech Security Act on the Crisis Act, which then defines the specific authorities. In other words, in the event of a dispute, the crisis management body to decide the matter, we will find the instructions for this in the crisis law. So you can see that, therefore, the constitutional law on security, the Charter and the Crisis Act. In summary, we are really allowed to do so in the Czech Republic - and it is good that I say this as your colleague, a Member, a lawyer, a Human Rights Commissioner - it is a good thing that we have these strong constraints and that we are allowed to limit fundamental rights and freedoms only exceptionally and basically only in an emergency state. Because, although the Public Health Act sets out a lot of options and restrictions - sometimes I have such doubts that it is already a restriction on the limits of constitutionality - it cannot be interpreted in principle by allowing the Minister's decision to limit fundamental rights and freedoms. In addition, in a declared emergency situation, priority must be given to the competences established in the crisis law. So I would end my performance, I hope, by saying that we really need to present the package as quickly as possible, which we have also promised, say, a security-crisis, to amend the provisions of that crisis law. Security's part of it, because that's where there's still a dispute. But it's definitely necessary for us not to have to use the instruments that we have at our disposal now, which are cumbersome and who haven't remembered this situation. One last sentence. Consider that we must use the "or other danger" diction. Because the Security Act is designed to address the consequences of natural disasters, environmental or industrial accidents, accidents. And we have to fit under that "other danger." So it's not really appropriate legislation. In conclusion, I would like to say that, of course, as a member of the mandate and immune committee, I will also propose that this matter be discussed not because of some exemplary punishment, but because of prevention. And also for the public to know that none of us on this counter - no matter what we say, we are protected by immunity - but no MEP would be completely free of punishment, and now not in the criminal sense of the word, but in terms of the possibility of a mandate and an immune committee, it should not have gone through behavior that threatens, for example, the course of this meeting today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Next in turn, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be the last one entered into the debate so far. Real notes aren't possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I am merely speaking because factual remarks are not possible, and I want to respond to some of the things that have been said here, and you, colleagues and colleagues have not heard the answers either, but also, of course, through the President, all those who are watching us. And I consider it fair. For one thing, it is a question of the current challenge of small-class schools to reopen small-class schools because these small-class schools have very small numbers of pupils, so we can consider that there might be a presentation for certain epidemiological measures. Moreover, we know that small-class schools are very often in small villages, in small villages. We have problems with connectivity, but also with technical and material equipment of parties such as families with more children. We have other problems with the organisation of teaching. So, in terms of equal access to education and the right to children's education, it would certainly be appropriate to hear this challenge from small-class schools. And I just want to say that the school committee has called an emergency meeting. We will act tomorrow, colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of this challenge are invited there, so they will be heard. And Mrs. Chief Hygiene is also invited. The Minister of Health has released it, so, of course, I want to thank him. And also representatives of the Ministry of Education. [[17,00 hours]] Likewise, if this has been said repeatedly, the situation at the elementary schools of art, we Members are also dealing with this matter, namely we are working with our colleague Marcela Melková, but of course with other colleagues. Basic art schools are part of a system of schools and are to be treated in terms of both the school's "dog" and all other measures, of course also in terms of vaccination and other things. We are now clearing up this situation with the Minister of Health, we are doing this all week. It is simply a matter of making everything right, treating these schools as schools, because it seems that there has been a misunderstanding, and they have been misjudged by some officials, which is, of course, nonsense and is not true by law. So even here, we're working on a fix, and I believe it's all going to be fixed soon. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention, I just wanted to respond to the debate and give information not only to you, but to everyone who may be following us, so that it is clear that we are hearing those who are turning to us and dealing with their concerns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u79	I thank the lady. Mr. Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Benešík Club is reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u80	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I just wanted to say that I listened with interest to the distance from President Okamura from Mr Lubomír Volný, but on the election page.cz I have read that Mr Lubomír Volný was elected on the candidate list of Freedom and Direct Democracy - Tomio Okamura. So the fact that she has nothing to do with him is a little bit of a shock to me. He just does. Mr. Tomio Okamura brought Mr. Volný to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I'll end... [[An application from the diaper.]] Before the end of the debate? So please, you have the floor. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor. We're still... Before the end of the debate, I would ask for a 30-minute recess for a club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u83	So I'm declaring a break until 5:31 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the adjourned 80th meeting, which is convened on a single point, which is a proposal to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies with an extension of the time of emergency. We interrupted this meeting last time due to a pause for a meeting of the Pirates' MP. So I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I see Prime Minister Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u85	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we asked for a break today at the club meeting, and I want to thank you for allowing us to do so. Indeed, we spent that time consulting the club to discuss the results of the negotiations that we had with Minister Blatný and another member of the government, and we prepared a motion for a resolution which is based on what we were told is possible and what is already in some form in the process. So we are putting forward to this motion for a resolution an extension of the emergency situation of the points that would be added to this resolution, and we leave to your consideration whether or not you consider the measures prepared to be useful. Firstly, we propose that the Chamber of Deputies should call for the expansion of government compensation for entrepreneurs in directly and indirectly affected sectors which will provide entrepreneurs with sufficient, rapid and non-discriminatory support, in particular to cover fixed costs, such as mortgage loans, equipment and machinery loans, energy costs and other equivalents to the COVID - Rent programme, within 21 days of the adoption of this resolution. - So the first point is to solve the problem that, on the one hand, those who have rented a business are okay because they have a compensation program, those who have a mortgage, they're much worse off. Secondly, we ask the government - Chamber of Deputies - motion for a resolution: asks the Government to support the proclient and helpful approach of the Financial Administration and other institutions to all applicants. Thirdly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to support, within 15 days of the adoption of this resolution, the maximum use of homework in both the private and public sectors, and (b) to support regular testing of employees in companies, particularly in industry, in the form of a bonus or tax deduction for the test carried out. - We have been informed by Minister Blatný that the Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček is preparing a proposal to positively motivate companies to extend testing within their organisations in the form of deduction from the tax base of CZK 500 per test carried out. The fourth point of the resolution concerns the Government's call for a limited period of time until June 2021 to support the increase of disability to 80 per cent in covideo quarantine and isolation, instead of 60 per cent of today's daily assessment base, in order to increase people's motivation to be tested and reported in order to prevent further spread of COVID-19. The fifth point concerns that it is proposed that the Chamber of Deputies take note of the information that the Ministry of Health as of 21. 1. 2021 has published data on the number of vaccines applied in individual regions after days. - Which is a step I would like to appreciate, so I appreciate the Ministry of Health, and at the same time we got a promise from the Minister that by 25. 1. 2021 will extend these data to the indication group, age cohort and dose order. So this data, which will be published today, will be added so that we can see how we manage to inoculate the individual groups we need. The sixth point of the resolution is that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to revise the general ban on retail sales and to replace this ban by limiting the number of customers to the establishment for compliance with strict sanitary measures, so that at least the operation of trade is possible, where there is only one customer at a time. - So they aim, in particular, to support those establishments where there is virtually zero epidemiological risk, because they are so small and so little visited that there is typically only one person, or a few people who are family members or live in a common home. That depends on the government's adjustment. However, if we do not want these establishments to go bankrupt and we lose them when we deal with the situation in six months, and new firms have to be re-established in a difficult way, I think it would be appropriate to allow such operations in cases where there is a low epidemiological risk. The seventh point concerns education and is that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to adapt the anti-epidemiology system so that (a) the primary school director has the possibility at all levels of PES to allow the presence of pupils in the first degree by means of rotational teaching or using study groups in accordance with the methodological guidance of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports; (b) to take account of the possibility of implementing practical teaching in schools and at higher levels of PES under stricter measures; (c) enable school directors to allow pupils to attend the final years of primary and secondary schools in the form of rotational teaching, consultation or use of study groups; (d) so that the head of small-scale schools can allow the attendance of all pupils of the first degree under stricter measures; (e) harmonise the rules for the functioning of bodies providing child education and care at the age of six, i.e. also for forest clubs and other facilities which provide the same or similar services as kindergartens. - So here we aim to make sure that the ban is not absolute, but to make it possible, for example, once in a while, if it is possible for a manual issued by the Ministry of Education to allow rotational education or study groups to keep the children from idle. On the eighth point, we propose that the Chamber of Deputies express its support for the intention that the government do 8. 2. 2020 has submitted a special, time-limited law defining the conditions of pandemic emergency, parliamentary control of such a condition, emergency measures that the government and the Ministry of Health can take, the possibilities of their judicial review, the basic requirements for informing citizens about COVID-19 disease and crisis management, the possibility of aid for damage suffered and clear conditions for compensation for damage caused. [[Correct 2021]] - So that's what the Minister of Health was talking about, and he said he supports the general intention of having a crisis law like this tailored. It is a thing that the government has promised during April in the spring phase, in the first wave, but it has not been able to process it either until the holidays or subsequently in the autumn, so we think it would be worth it to support this intention in this matter. And I believe that if we do this here, the government will eventually process the proposal. [[17.40 hours]] And ninthly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to propose, for the duration of the emergency, an extension of all temporary measures taken in the Act on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the Coronavirus epidemic. In particular, in order to limit the possibility of carrying out mobile execution or execution of a decision by selling movable items and to allow a compulsory payment of four times the minimum of life from their account. - So those laws that were adopted following the previous situation during the pandemic of coronavirus, but which are now approaching the end of efficacy, so that in these cases, when it is useful, as in the case of mobile executions, there is an extension of the period during which they are suspended. We can, of course, continue to discuss this proposal within the framework of the debate, but I wanted to update if the government really improves its approach to the pandemic in this serious situation and supports the resolution that we have proposed after the negotiations with Minister Blatný, Minister Plaga, the Pirates Club is also ready to support the extension of the emergency situation. Thank you. I've still got a little bit of editing to do here. When I read point 4, instead of the words of a 60 per cent daily basis, 60 per cent of the reduced average earnings is more precisely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. I will ask as President given that we do not have a rapporteur to deliver the material to me here on the table so that I can then direct the vote. I would also like to inform you that I have been asked to sign you all out for technical reasons, so please log in again if necessary. And now I am the first to report to me with priority rights, Mr Marian Jurečka. I see Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I will follow up on this quite extensive justification and the presentation of the resolution that I agree with for us, for KDU-ČSL. There are also many things that have been said here today from the speeches of opposition Members. But I have a big request here for the President of the House and his office. We have read similar resolutions here, and very many have already been voted out in previous discussions on the prolongation of the emergency situation. And I would like to ask the President of the House and his office to deal with the Prime Minister's resolution, as the government has dealt with them. Because then we accept it here, we vote on it, but in principle I dare say that most of them are not government-filled. So if a comprehensive settlement of all those resolutions that we have adopted here in recent months during the extension of an emergency can be presented before the next emergency extension negotiations, and clearly stated what the House expressed as the clear will of what the government should be doing, some conditions to adjust, etc., what the government took seriously and fulfilled, or what the government did not worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I think we've dealt with this subject before on grémia. I think it's time to sort it out again, if necessary. Mr Benda, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u89	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when a man makes a mistake, he has the ability to admit it. Unfortunately, I will return to the incident we experienced here less than an hour ago, because I said to Czech Television that the security service did not intervene in time enough. So I'd like to apologize from this place. I registered that Vice-President Hanzel was especially protected by the MPs, but the security service intervened when Vice-President Hanzel called him by hand. So I am very sorry that I said this bad information on TV. At least in this place, I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u90	Yes, thank you. And if the MP... prosit, Mr. Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor. The resolution we received just now from the Pirates Club. At first glance, I thought we could support everything. On second thought, that's not the case anymore. I understand that there are political agreements going on for something. I'm not criticizing that, that's the essence of politics. However, when we talk to the first point, he is factually correct. I just want to say to my colleagues from the Pirate Party that the bill that we, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, have been here for several months and are trying to get him on the agenda in vain. in the draft law as regards the payment of fixed costs. [[Unintelligible]] I think it's much better if we adopt the law than if we rely on the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth grant title, and then we always find out that we've forgotten someone or some particular fixed load we've forgotten. In this context, I would like to call on the government to tell the truth. Minister Havlíček ran on television in the middle of December and explained everywhere, both in December and since December, and in retrospect, 100 percent of the rent will be paid to all who cannot do business to write a programme and 50 percent will be paid. I'm told by dozens of entrepreneurs that they feel cheated, that they took it as a public promise when it sounds from the Minister of Industry's mouth. I don't understand why he's changed his mind, instead of 100 per cent, it's 50 per cent, and that's exactly the problem with the grant titles, whereas the bill says 100 per cent of the fixed costs for those who can't do business, and 50 per cent of the fixed costs for those who have limited business. And there's a mortgage somewhere, someone's energy, someone's rent, and so we don't forget. No offense to that point 1, I'm just saying there's a better solution. On the other hand, in point 4, we forgot about the debate on the infirmary and 80 percent of the daily assessment base, reduced, to be exact. Ask the employers, ask the health services, this is not a step in the right direction. Don't let the Pirate Party colleagues get mad at me. It's too high and will be threatened by both medical devices and many companies. Indeed, it sounds good who would not wish it on anyone, but if you look at the effects of this measure, you will find that they were rather negative than positive. I want to remind you that we discussed this on our covid committee, which the Chamber of Deputies. [[unintelligible]] There we agreed, representatives of all the political parties, that it was not reasonable and that it was backwards considered a mistake that it was too high. That is why I say that we are not going to vote on point 4 even though it sounds very good, because the impact, in particular, on health establishments, school establishments, businesses would be, I would say, opposite than anyone intends. We must always balance between the interest of the individual, the concern for the family, the security of money for the family on the one hand, on the other hand, to ensure that the key devices that work at such a difficult time are working. And I think the whole problem is, and I'm not criticizing it, I'm just saying. When we receive such a large motion for a resolution just before the vote - I am not calling for some break and further discussion - then it is rather difficult not to make a mistake, even in good intentions, with the fact that it is excellent, what we have suggested that it will help someone, but we must look into the context. So point 1 just seems to me that there's a better solution to be dealt with here - I'll hand over an emergency meeting request in about a few minutes, and one of the points is so-called. Indemnification law. And I believe that those who may vote in favour of this resolution will support the agenda next week when the President of the Chamber of Deputies convenes it, and we can debate between first and second reading and, if necessary, adjust the draft law even after the debate with the government. And on that point, I'm going to say that we're simply not going to support him, because I think it would do more harm than good without wanting more money for those who are unfortunately in quarantine or isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. Now, Mrs Valachová, then I am registering the President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u93	Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, Government, I am only briefly behind the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club - a response to the resolution to prolong the emergency situation, as the Pirate Party has read. It follows up a little on the position that I have already interpreted for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club this afternoon. Just after consulting our ministers, and therefore the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, I am calling on the support of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club on the benefit of sickness in connection with the promotion of detection and prosecution of COVID-19, and therefore not to spread to us COVID-19, as well as the support of the intention relating to the constitutionally legal package of crisis and security measures. The Ministry of the Interior has a proposal prepared and the Minister of the Interior is ready to present it. koneckonců all, I also announced in my afternoon speech for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club that the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, which I chair, is ready to discuss this issue, and this is how we are also agreed with our colleagues in terms of the last emergency hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. If I am not mistaken, this was your second speech in the debate. And now Prime Minister Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Vice-President. I would like to ask that I apologise to my colleagues, especially Zbyňka Stanjur, but it is a rather long resolution. I've asked my fellow ministers to come and discuss what we're capable of or are unable to support. So, please, half an hour recess at the Yes Club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u96	Half an hour? Did I get a good read? [[Chairman of the Faltynek: Yes, half an hour.]] Okay. Yeah, okay. In that case, I'm declaring a break until 18.20 for the ANO club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u97	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. We're still in the debate, let me ask you something. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. I will ask everyone to take their seats and allow their colleague to perform. Please. You can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. I have a few comments, questions or proposals for this motion for a resolution that we have received in writing. In point 1, I suggest adding the end of the comma, back from 5 October 2020, when an emergency has been declared. [[and words]] In point 3, I would rather ask for an explanation of how owners should explain, in particular, in the private sector and in particular small firms, that the government should support it to the maximum, or that the government should support the maximum use of domestic work - now I am concerned with the private sector, as we imagine the government will support it. We don't mean the government tells them to. And I can't think of any other really functioning instrument that the government could use for the private sector. So I'd rather have an explanation. And b) - is that a good thing? The Treasury Secretary isn't here. [[- It is.]] Yes, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. So more of a question to you, Madam Secretary, if it's not better - you're assuming that it's tax-deprived costs. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Because if, on the one hand, I'm supposed to have a tax-appreciable cargo and a tax discount on the other hand, it doesn't make any sense to me. I thought that those companies could normally account for that in the cost of tax deductible under the item, how the protection of the health of employees and the means of safety of work, exactly the sub-account that is being used. So it seems illogical to me, if we get the assurance that this is tax-recognizable, then give a tax bonus. That's what I think it's gonna be twice. I think it's right to motivate employers to do this, and I just meant that these are tax-acceptable costs and that the tax administration, I think, has given such an interpretation that this is the right motivation. I told you about that point four. To point 5. Forgive me if the Chamber of Deputies, which controls the government, takes note of the promise of the Minister of Health, seems to me to be reducing the weight and role of the Chamber of Deputies, so I suggest rephrasing that point 5b). Or 5b) would be: notes that the Ministry of Health has published data to date. And it would be six, because it has shifted: the Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to expand this data by 21 January 2021 on the indication group, the age cohort and the order of the dose. - I think the proper procedure of the House as a whole towards the government is that we are asking for it, not that we acknowledge the promise of one member of the government. And that's it, actually. Those were the motions for the resolution, or questions, and I'd be happy to have someone answer me if they don't, so I'll take that under advisement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. I'm just technically. In the first general debate, it appears that the Volný Member who has been banished has spoken. So we don't have a newsletter. A colleague of Vojtěch Pikal followed the individual designs carefully and is mentally prepared to take the role. I'd rather let you vote on it. So we would vote on the rapporteur's person that he will become Mr Vojtěch Pikal, if there is no objection. [[It's not.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Well, I didn't call in my co-workers from the showroom. I'm sorry. There was a sufficient number of people present. Voting number 3, registered 101, for 94, against no one. The motion was accepted. I congratulate the rapporteur. President Radim Fiala, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join Zbyněk Stanjur, where I have carefully studied the motion for a resolution of the Pirates, and I just want to say that at point 8, you have an inaccuracy right in the first line, where it is written to 8. 2. 2020. I'm sure you guys wanted to write by 8:00. 2. 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u101	Thank you for the legislative technical comment. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would suggest - my proposal goes to the procedure so that we vote en bloc on the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u104	I really can't agree with that. In my first performance on this material, I announced that one of those points could not be supported. I've explained why. I think it is a good habit that if some Members require separate votes, they will be granted. So consider it a request from our club to vote separately on the items proposed by the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u105	Yes, so far we have always done so, if anyone objected and wanted a separate vote, we have come to terms with it. I'm asking if there's anyone else in the debate. Mr Ferjenčík, Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor. Briefly on the questions that were raised here. Questions about the maximum support of the home office. The government has a number of possible tools of positive motivation. In the public sector, I think it's clear, where he can make the most of his efforts, we all agree on that. And in that private, there we would, that is why it is purely in this general way, encourage that positive possibilities be used there, whether it concerns different options, depreciation, simply aid in a positive way. That's up to the government to do it. The point is that the numbers show that in the spring of that first wave many companies managed home office, they could, they were just the possibilities there, and today it's the use of home office lower. So it would be great to give some small advantage to those who did it in the spring and now they could also resort to greater support for work from home to make it a little better for them. This is purely in general meant as the positive support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. I ask - Mr Ferjenčík, therefore, does not want to speak anymore. [[No.]] If there's no one else, it's Chairman Michálek. [[A request for a factual one.]] I'm not giving you the real deal, but I'm giving you the priority right. So, please, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make an amendment in such a way as to vote on differences in date, so that the agreement to extend the emergency situation is expressed as of 5. 2. to make it an extension to 5. 2. 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u109	I'll take that as another alternative to the length of the emergency, third in order. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor. It is smiling when opposition Members argue about how to implement some motions for resolutions. However, Mrs Richterová has set an example which I do not think is feasible at all in order to take into account home offices, for example, by means of depreciation. First of all, I don't see the connection. And secondly, it's for an income tax amendment, and it's certainly not that it motivates them in these weeks and months. And I really can't see -- there are companies that just have written off, don't write anything off, or write-offs are a very small amount to them. Now I'm talking about the small employers in particular. The big ones always have an advantage and they can organize it better. But when you have a small collective, you need them to communicate with each other, so employers try to make sure there's one in every office. And it's actually like a home office. Alternatively, they can meet for a little while and do some brief briefing. I therefore asked that I did not see the government's tools to positively motivate the home office except that the government would challenge it. If I get the assurance that the government won't think it's gonna be ordered because I don't know how to control it, I'm sorry, but it's not exactly write-offs, I'm sure it isn't. And since I can't imagine any, that's why I asked, and I'd like to ask if anyone else has an idea, I'm with him. To make it quick, positive for the employers to apply it in practice. But I'm afraid I haven't heard anything yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Now I've had several applications with priority rights. First, Minister of Health Jan Blatný, President Jurečka will be prepared, then Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the Ministry of Health, I would like to answer those questions and suggestions and opinions that have been consulted here in the last few minutes. I can guarantee that the Ministry of Health will provide data as it has been so far on the ongoing spread and management of the epidemic. As from today, vaccination data are provided, which will be extended from Monday to free data sets that will be available. The regions shall provide information by priority group. As far as the operation of small establishments, shops and the like is concerned, I would point out that at stage five, which is designed to be the emergency brake in case something is very wrong, we will not propose any major change there. But from stage four, all these establishments, including small establishments, can be opened under strict sanitary measures. The priority is clearly the return of first-level pupils to primary schools. This cannot be expected to happen before the beginning of February, but if the epidemic situation permits it, then this date is real. It's a small class thing. And if possible, the following groups are also students of ninth grade and seniors. Education is clearly a priority and will be the first to be allowed. It is already supported and repeatedly called for to maximize work from home in the antiepidemic system, so nothing changes. I am absolutely committed to working together on the preparation of legislative proposals and amendments so that we can control similar situations in the future otherwise than with the help of an emergency situation. What will be the course of this negotiation, how long it will take, now I cannot say, but I think we all agree that this is definitely needed. And the last very specific question that was to restore the operation of ski lifts. It is an effort to make this specific segment possible as soon as possible, but provided that the epidemic situation permits it. Again, I can tell you if you want to hear a date, that it can be at the turn of January and February, if the epidemic situation permits. We all agree that if this were not the case, this time will need to be postponed, but it is certainly of interest that this part of entrepreneurs, which has specific options, should not be disadvantaged. I believe I have answered the questions that have been discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. Now President Jurečka, then Minister of Finance, then President Kováčik. All priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. I want to briefly on the question of work from home office or home office to note so much that she is, of course, a general challenge, apel. O.K., but the problem is that today's labor code doesn't have this thing anchored at all. So here I want to draw attention to the fact that our colleague Vítek Kaňkovský prepared an amendment to the amendment to the Labour Code to define the rules of home office there at all, to solve the issue of health protection at work, which was the moment why it failed to get into the Labour Code in the past period. We're gonna discuss this, I'm gonna count it sometime in February, so I'm gonna ask everyone to find a match and support on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. The Minister of Finance has the floor. Then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I'm talking about the tax stuff. Of course, it is as President Stanjura asked. As early as May 14th, the Ministry of Finance - I think I signed it personally - issued a binding position in that direction in order to unite it, that they are actually tests - can be put directly into spending. So we're not talking about any write-offs here, it goes right into expenses. And when the debate got hot and talked about it, we confirmed it again 18. 6. Let's just make it very clear. I think everybody knows today. Then, of course, it is true that the tax deduction for the test carried out does not make sense. Now, aside from the fact that we want to take tax exemptions rather than add tax exemptions - I don't really care now because we're just in a crisis situation - it doesn't make sense at all. First of all, he can put it in expenses. He doesn't give to take the countdown yet. But who's gonna use it? The one with the tax base. Who doesn't get the tax base because they have to be lost, so they just don't use anything. So again, the little ones you're targeting here won't get anything out of it. Hospitals, nonprofits, nothing to do with them. So it's kind of like nothing. 'Cause, of course, if it goes through here, it's gonna explode, but I'm gonna get it on the table, and there's nothing I can do about it. And I'll have these arguments. And then there will be the good pirát who designed it, and the bad Schillerová who doesn't want it again. But I'm used to it, I can handle it. Bonus. Well, I don't know what bonus, what form of bonus. If you want a grant title, you want to donate for those few crowns, I just don't know. Minister Havlíček here will have to hire another thousand people, and then you'll say we have too many officials. It's nonsense. Just nonsense. And if you want to do it in the form of a bonus, like for children, or a compensation bonus, then someone will have to process it again, it will be the Financial Administration, it will be a few crowns. It just doesn't make any sense. I'm saying that's why we put it as an expense item directly into expenditure. And there's one more thing I did that I gave my apologies for VAT on in vitro tests. That's just what we did for the VAT payer. As for the home office, of course, it is true that we are not going to regulate the private sector. I think that every employer, a private employer, who creates values here and, of course, does business for profit, so, above all, has a priority interest in making his people healthy. It's obvious. He doesn't want them to get sick, he wants healthy people. So he's gonna make the maximum measure to just separate, to make some... But if you can. Then you have a whole range of disciplines where you can't just do it. Who can't do that? So let's leave it to them, let's not regulate them. The public sector is regulated. We have certain rules for the public sector. We all follow it. Now, for example, at the Treasury Department, physically today - I get this data regularly - there are about 400 people. That means, the rest is at home office, we're spinning so that - I mean, I'm not, I'm still there, don't worry that I'd be home - but basically it's the other way around that it doesn't go to Financial Administration, Customs, and so on so that these authorities won't be able to act. I speak for my department now. [[18.40 hours]] Write-offs to the home office employee, I really can't imagine, write-off. I really don't know, it doesn't make any sense. I don't know how to do that. And again, remember, everything you come up with means it's going to be about companies that have some kind of tax base. Everything. Anything you can think of. Well, then I'll take the liberty of my department, I won't fit into other departments, I see here: asking the government to support the pro-client, helpful approach of the Financial Administration and other institutions to all applicants. Then I'll speak for the Financial Administration. Today, my deputy called all the authorities on video call, dealt with taxi drivers, dealt with them tomorrow's compensation bonus. We've sent all the cab drivers how it's gonna be, their deputies, just specific instructions, and it's still the way it's handled. I'm not saying it's 100%, it can always be better. But just so it doesn't keep digging into the Financial Administration. Three hundred people from the Financial Administration have been helping for a long time, for several months helping with tracking, another 100 or over a hundred are from the Customs Administration, half of which is in the front line. They like to do it with enthusiasm. I just want to remind you. They did -- tomorrow, when I'm performing here with an amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act, I said, I get a regular weekly table of those settled claims for a bonus, there's over a million of them already. And the totals. We're not complaining, it's our duty. Nobody complains, everyone does it with enthusiasm and tries to help and, of course, they do their job. I know you can certainly have a number of reservations, I have one too. Believe me, yes, but it belongs to those people at least once, and now I'm gonna do it this way, and it's up to them to thank them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the KSČM parliamentary club is behind its motion for a resolution, which is - for the sake of repetition: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 14 February - Sunday - 24.00 hours, and please do so in 2021 to be completely clear and clear. We are behind this proposal, and we as one man and one woman will support it, we will vote for it, because I am glad that we managed to at least small lights at the end of those tunnels, at least somewhere, not to light it up, that would be very bold, but at least to light up, try to blink, try to at least in those in our judgment the most serious situations to start looking, if the situation develops at least a little favorable, start looking for a way out. It's two things perspective and one thing like that, I'd say, right now, even if it's not quite present. The point is, and I am glad that Minister Blatný said here in his answers that we have not only succeeded in the case that the situation will at least be a little positive, that the first-degree students will open up, that the seniors are there, that there are small classes, that means a significant shift in the countryside, above all, that there are those seniors, because that's continuity at universities, universities, where, as I said in the morning at the press conference, if we forget, we push away the flow of the educational process, so the whole nation, the whole state, the whole economy, the whole society will take away in the future. And frankly, I can't imagine letting those years repeat. There is neither the capacity of schools, i.e. buildings, nor the capacity of teaching hours, nor the capacity of teachers and teachers. So this is the first thing that I believe will succeed in simply, if it continues to be an amazing discipline to the vast majority of the citizens of the Czech Republic, so that it will succeed. The second perspective is the question of preparing legislation. It sounded all over the place. We've given specific things. The first is that, even in the future, if any more waves continue, the Administration of State Material Reserves should be prepared and purchased and able to buy even after the end of the emergency situation under simplified, simplified conditions, so that the readiness is simply here. It's not just a KSČM proposal, it's a proposal across the political spectrum, as they like to say, and it's been here for a month, so it's a good thing it's just going to be the beginning. And a number of other things in this legislative work really need to start on the basis of demands and others. And this little light here is also lit, and I believe that we will be more rational in the coming weeks and months than just dealing with some dispute by fistfight and so on. That's the second thing. And the third one, the seemingly only present one, Ondráček said it here in his performance. Just all businessmen, businessmen have their business spread out throughout the year. And I'm not saying they have it easy, but they still have some time after the stages have ended, and that they can start running their business again, to at least pay their costs. The only ones who have their business centered within a few months of the year are those mountain resorts, what is dependent on winter sports and winter tourism. And we would like to say that at the turn, as the minister here said, at the turn, under strict hygiene conditions, it is also necessary to say that even though these people are going to the mountains, so they are driving in a way that simply the disease situation is not quite easy, as I would say, to solve. So here there is a need to observe strict conditions and also hygienic conditions, if closed hotels and restaurants, so that even the basic human needs can be satisfied there. That's also a little light. Finally, we can, I've already been called, I don't know how he found out, hopefully we can finally go skiing. And I think that it is also quite sympathetic, not only because we will see how progress in these requirements and our conditions is achieved, therefore not until February 21st, but until February 14th, so that we can assess progress in this variable week as well. And either it's going to continue, or it's not going to continue with the emergency. Colleagues and colleagues, the KSČM MP will support the resolution that I spoke about at the beginning of my speech, but at the same time we give a slightly warning finger that if what really doesn't happen at least at the minimum is said, it will be very likely from us for the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u119	Thank you, too. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to respond to my colleague Stanjura about our proposal to 80 percent of the hospital in quarantine. I stress that this is a different proposal from what the Commission discussed about covid in the spring, where sick leave was dealt with for parents caring for children. This is quite a different case than the situation where someone is being quarantined, plus until the end of February it will be covered through the Antivirus program, so it will not be paid by employers. And we think that this proposal really positively motivates people to track themselves into these quarantines, and we think it's a useful tool to master the pandemic. If we don't manage to get those people who, otherwise, because it has a huge economic impact on them, aren't willing to go into that quarantine if we can't get them out of that work system and home, then we won't be able to unwind any other things where it's getting really critical, like the schools or the shops.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. I'll ask Mrs Valachová with her second performance. As I was warned, she had a prior privilege, so it is possible for her to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to clarify the opinions that have been expressed here in terms of increased sickness in the case of people with covid. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has continuously communicated with the Pirate Party their proposal. And there is a legislative problem, because, of course, no one wants the costs associated with this to go to employers. That would probably not be the right solution, and I would like to inform you that The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will work on the possibilities for dealing with this situation, with the aim, as stated in the draft resolution, of finding a way through good experience within the British model in Britain, where it is a one-time contribution for people on sick leave with covid. It would be administratively simpler and more effective. So I just want to make an update that we want to look in this direction for a solution for a situation that we obviously want to resolve, but the proposal, how it has been formulated and how it has been legislatively clarified, would have affected employers. And that, of course, is the thing that I suppose the Pirate Party wasn't watching either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík's second speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u124	I have to respond. That's just not true, because it's covered through Antivirus A until the end of February. It's just not true that it's gonna end up with an employer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u125	With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u126	I've already mentioned once that we have to balance the interests of employers and employees. And I'm worried about the impact on the employers and even the medical facilities. But again, let us argue about some resolution that does not really matter except that we want to congratulate ourselves on social media and in the newspapers that we have enforced it. Because if we want 80 per cent to some kind of sick person, we have to change the law. That's what it is. The government can't meet and say this is how it's going to be tomorrow. Thus we can conduct political negotiations without a resolution, whether there will be a parliamentary bill or a government bill, whether it will be normal or in a legislative emergency and what parameters it should have. I'm just saying, there's a lot more to these question marks than the simple answers. I do not want to burden today's debate, because today we are mainly supposed to decide when the emergency situation will be extended and, where appropriate, accompanying resolutions. So I get it, I'm involved in the debate, too, so I'm kind of messing with myself. Basically, it doesn't matter. I have not yet heard that the Government has prepared a bill on the basis of a resolution. It's just that we're kind of running Nightingale right now, we're just at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone else for the debate. Mr. Chairman Michálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u128	Thank you for the floor. I thank my colleague Valachová that she has spoken here with the view that the government sees a similar direction, that it is necessary to encourage people, especially employees, to really go into covido quarantine and isolation. So in order to give the government greater freedom to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, I will propose an alternative version of paragraph 4 in such a way that it will sound as follows: The Chamber of Deputies, fourthly, calls on the Government to further support employees in covid quarantine and isolation for a limited period of time until June 2021, in order to increase people's motivation to be tested and contacted, thus preventing the spread of COVID-19. - This means that the government can also use another legislative framework to support workers in order to fulfil obligations related to quarantine and isolation, and it does not have to opt for a specific legislative solution to increase by 20 percentage points, as stated in the motion for a resolution. I think that such a text should also be acceptable to colleagues from the ČSSD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. I will perhaps send the text to the rapporteur. Thank you. And I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. I don't see anybody this time, so I'm done with the debate. We shall proceed to the vote on motions for resolutions. First of all, the main ones. There was a motion from Mr Marian Bojka to cancel the emergency with immediate effect. In substance, this means that it is a proposal to cancel an emergency before the expiry of the period for which it was declared, pursuant to § 109m para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d). We would then vote on three alternative prolongations of the emergency situation. The government has requested an extension until 21 February. There was also a proposal by the KSČM before lunch break until 14 February until 24.00. And now, at the end of the debate, President Michálek spoke and proposed by 5 February 2021. We would vote on these three proposals in an orientation first. The one with the greatest support would then be voted first. So I'm gonna call my coworkers from the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u130	Just yet, I have been recording the proposal, so I have not noticed the whole proposal for the procedure, as you have been lecturing it, Mr President, but it is necessary to deal with the two technical adaptations that have been made here, purely in order to ensure that everyone knows that they have been taken into account. Then there were two further corrections, which we would then, if the resolution were to be voted after the points, so the counter-proposal will always be as a starting point. If the counterproposal had not passed, we would have voted on the original form of the proposal. And if I had noted this well, we would have voted first of all on the resolution after the points, I suppose, even though the proposal was here individually. And I would like to ask if anyone is interested in voting - because there are sub-items - so if anyone insists on voting after the letters, but I assume that is not the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u131	I heard it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u132	I have recorded that point 1 is the counterproposal, even back from declaring an emergency, which we would vote as the first version under point 1. Similarly, on the proposal at point 4, I have what President Michálek then presented as a variant version. 5b) do you want separately?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u133	I think it's good to clear up the accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u134	I'm sorry, I said in that performance that point 5 would only have one letter, and instead of point 5 (b), it would be 6, and the others would be renumbered when it was written that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 25. 1, and then the text remained the same. It really seemed to me, as I would say, very weak so that the House as a whole to control the government would take note of the promise of one member of the government, so call on the government to do so, and then the text is the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u135	I understand the proposal. Then we'll deal with it in the process. So instead of point 5b), a new point 6 would be voted, which is: calls on the government to do 25. 1. 2021 extended this data to the indication group, age cohort and dose order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. Well, maybe that explains the accompanying one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u137	So the proposal for a procedure is that we will vote first to take note of the technical changes, which concerns the adaptation of point 4, where the adjustment is that the 60 and 80 percent, respectively, would relate to the reduced average expenditure. Of course, we will only vote if the modified form does not pass. And the second technical adjustment was that at point 8, the date was up to 8. 2. 2021, not until 8. 2. 2020. So it's the technical changes. And then we would vote first on the points of the resolution after the points, and then we would vote in an orientation on the individual proposals, until it is possible to extend the emergency situation, and then the one that gets the most support, so we would be the first to vote as the final approval of the prolongation of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u138	I don't think we're gonna agree here. I think we're meeting to declare an emergency. First, we must deal with the main resolution, and then we will adopt the others. But if there is an objection to my action - President Michálek, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for the floor. So we were discussing this in the beginning with Mr Faltýnek and we were just talking about how, based on the outcome of the resolution, we're going to decide whether or not we're going to prolong the emergency situation. It's not a blank check. The House will have an opinion on this, and if it goes in the right direction or in the wrong direction, then the Members will say whether or not they want to extend it. So this is the logic behind it. And the resolutions, it's not like the laws, they're resolutions that are expressed in one resolution, so it's not a form of accompanying resolution. At least that's how I feel, if you fix me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u140	Well, I see it differently, but the Rules of Procedure rule it out, and most importantly, the House is a souvenir, and if we make a deal, that's the way it's gonna be. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u141	That's what I call an increased level of trust. We agreed, but it'll be ours first, because we don't believe yours will pass. But it doesn't matter at all. I would like to raise another objection to the President's action. If, Mr President, you want to change the procedure, hand over the proceedings and come propose another procedure. You can't, when you're in charge of a meeting, question the draft procedure presented by the rapporteur, which, in my opinion, has logic. But you have every right, or anyone else, to come here and suggest another procedure, you can't make it out of logic things that matter what's the main and what's the other. We do not vote on a bill where it is logical to vote on the law first and then on accompanying resolutions. There are no major and secondary resolutions here. So I think it's logical. There may be a counterclaim, but you can't do it the moment you're in charge of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u142	Well, I think it's my job to defend the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that I am right and that we should vote this first. That's my legal opinion that I stand for. First, we should decide on an emergency situation. However - and I've already said it - I don't think we're gonna be sticking around. If there is such a majority, no one will object to such a procedure, then we will agree to the procedure proposed by the rapporteur. I'll survive. I'll respect most of the House. So first, we will vote the procedure as proposed by the Vice-President for some kind of agreement. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 104, for 97, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will therefore proceed as suggested by Vice-President Pikal. And please, first the tech one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. Yes, the first is the two technical repairs. One concerns point 8, where date 8. 2. 2020 is replaced by 8. 2. 2021. The second concerns the wording of point 4 in the original proposal, where the 60 per cent is not a daily basis but a reduced average earnings. Those are the technical repairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u144	Then I'll ask for some peace in the room. We really need to focus so we know what we're voting on. We're voting on the technical modifications. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered is 101, for 61, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. So now the individual items of the resolution. As the first point 1 in the attached version. So: "The Chamber of Deputies 1 calls for the expansion of government compensation for entrepreneurs in directly and indirectly affected sectors, which will provide entrepreneurs with sufficient, fast and non-discriminatory support, in particular to cover fixed costs by analogy with the COVID - Rent within 21 days of the adoption of this resolution, even back from the announcement of an emergency." [[e.g. mortgage loans, equipment and machinery loans, energy costs and more]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u146	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, registered is 101, for 45, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. In that case, we will vote this point in the original version, which means: the Chamber of Deputies 1. Calls for the expansion of government compensation for entrepreneurs in directly and indirectly affected sectors, which will provide entrepreneurs with sufficient, fast and non-discriminatory support, in particular to cover fixed costs" - there is the parentheses - "analogically to the COVID - Rent within 21 days of the adoption of this resolution." There's no backlash.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u148	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered is 101, for 45, against no one. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u149	Okay. Another suggestion, then. "The Chamber of Deputies 2. requests the Government to support the proclient and helpful approach of the Financial Administration and other institutions to all applicants."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u150	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, there are 101 Members registered, for 45, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u151	Okay. Thus, the third point: "The Chamber of Deputies 3. Calls on the Government to support, within 15 days of the adoption of this resolution (a), the maximum use of work from home in both the private and public sectors; (b) promote regular testing of employees in companies, particularly in industry, in the form of a bonus or tax deduction for the test carried out.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u152	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered is 101, for 18, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u153	Okay, thank you. Thus, point 4 in this amended text: "The Chamber of Deputies 4 calls on the Government to further support employees in covid quarantine and isolation for a limited period of time until July 2021, due to increased motivation of people to be tested and reported, thus preventing the spread of COVID-19.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u154	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered 101, for 15, versus 9. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u155	Okay, so the original text of paragraph 4: "The Chamber of Deputies 4. Calls on the Government to encourage an increase in sickness to 80 per cent in covideo quarantine and isolation for a limited period of time until June 2021 instead of 60% of today's reduced average earnings, due to the increased motivation of people to be tested and reported, thus preventing the spread of COVID-19."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u156	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered is 101, for 15, versus 9. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u157	Thank you. Here we divided the next point by letters, so point 5 is: "The Chamber of Deputies 5. takes note of (a) the information that the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic 21. 1. 2021 has published data on the number of vaccines applied in individual regions after days.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u158	I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, registered 101, for 32, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u159	Okay. So now the rephrased version of point 5b): "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to do 25. 1. 2021 extended this data to the indication group, age cohort, dose order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u160	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 13, 101 Members are registered, for 47, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u161	Okay. So now we're going to vote in the original version. This means, now as: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the promise of the Minister of Health by 25. 1. 2021 extend these data to the indication group, age cohort and dose order.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u162	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The number 14 vote is 101, for 19, against 12. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u163	Okay. Now, paragraph 6: "The Chamber of Deputies 6. Calls on the Government to revise the general ban on retail sales and to replace this ban by restricting the number of customers per establishment to comply with strict sanitary measures so that at least the operation of shops, where there is only one customer at a time."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u164	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 15 registered 101, for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u165	Okay. Now point 7 concerning schools: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to adjust the anti-epidemiology system so as to: (a) at all levels of PES, the principal of the primary school had the possibility to permit the presence of pupils in the first degree in the form of rotational instruction or using study groups in accordance with the methodological guidance of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports; (b) take into account the possibility of implementing practical teaching in schools and at higher levels of PES for stricter measures; (c) enable school directors to allow pupils to attend the final years of primary and secondary schools in the form of rotational teaching, consultation or use of study groups; (d) the head of a small-scale school may have allowed the attendance of all pupils of the first degree under stricter measures; (e) harmonise the rules for the functioning of bodies providing education and care for children under the age of 6 years, including forest clubs and other facilities which provide the same or similar services as kindergartens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u166	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 16, registered 101, for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u167	Another point: "The Chamber of Deputies expresses the support of the intention for the government to do 8. 2. 2021 has submitted a special, time-limited law defining the conditions of pandemic alert, parliamentary control of such status, emergency measures that may be taken by the government and the Ministry of Health, the possibilities of their judicial review, the basic requirements for informing citizens about COVID-19 disease and crisis management, the possibility of aid for damage suffered and clear conditions for compensation for damage caused.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u168	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 17 entered 101, for 43, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u169	Thank you. And so now the last proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies 9. Calls on the Government to propose, for the duration of the emergency situation, an extension of all temporary measures taken in the Act on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus, in particular to limit the possibility of carrying out Mobiliar execution or execution of decisions by selling movable items and to allow the compulsory payment of four times the minimum of life from their account.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u170	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? There are 101 Members in voting number 18, for 31, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u171	We have dealt fairly strongly with all the motions for a resolution, so we should now orientally vote on individual proposals for authorising an extension of the emergency situation. I think we should vote in the order in which they were loaded. First orientally, and then we will vote from the one with the greatest support. So first of all, the government's proposal for an extension until February 21st.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u172	Mr. Chairman Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u173	I am very sorry, but I might ask that one of the members of the government be able to comment on the way in which the government wants to approach us when the Prime Minister and some vice-premiers are calling for discussion and cooperation as opposition parties. We have worked with these resolutions several times last year in a similar situation when we voted to prolong the emergency. Now it's been done by fellow Pirates and STAN. You're all the resolutions, even the logical declaration that doesn't mean it has to be about more money, but about some expression of will, all of which you've killed! Please don't go and say on TV and in front of people that the opposition doesn't cooperate when the opposition repeatedly offers here, wants to cooperate, there's probably some negotiations going on here, then you're gonna kill it anyway!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u174	It's just--I put it at the beginning, actually, before we voted for the procedure, no one disputed it. The proposal by Mr Bojko is very different. He's proposing immediate cancellation. He doesn't fall into it. So first, we should vote on what he suggested, the immediate cancellation of the emergency situation, and then we'll get it indicative, if that's okay. So now the proposal by Mr Bojka, who proposes to cancel the emergency before the end of the period for which he was declared. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 19 is 101, for 11, against 52. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u175	Okay, thank you. So this proposal was not accepted. We will therefore now vote on the remaining proposals in an orientation. First of all, the government's proposal by February 21st. We're only interested in votes for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u176	So, first of all, a government proposal. I am initiating the vote and who is in favour of extending the emergency situation until 21 February 2021. It's only for the vote. The number 20 vote for is 42.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u177	Thank you. We should also vote on the proposal of the KSČM club, which was next, which is until 14 February.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u178	Initiating vote. Who is in favour of extending the emergency situation until 14 February 2021 until 24.00 hours? Voting number 21. It is registered 101, for 54, against 15 - but this will not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u179	And the last one was a proposal from the Pirates Club, or it was made by President Michálek, which is until 5 February.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u180	Initiating vote. Who's in favour of extending emergency status to 5. 2. 2021? Oriental. Voting number 22. 101 Members and 14 Members are still registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u181	Thank you. This gives us an indicative order, so first we will vote on the proposal of the KSČM club by 14 February. If this fails, we will vote on the Government's proposal by 21 February. If this does not pass, we will vote on the proposal of the Pirate Club by 5 February. [[Thank you.]] So first of all, please, the KSČM club proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-001-001.u182	There's a motion to unsubscribe, which I just did, I hope... So, I believe that we are all in our seats, we are logged in, and so we will first vote on the proposal of the KSČM club to extend the emergency period until 14 February until 24.00. The rapporteur confirmed it to me. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 23. There are 98 Members registered, for 53, against 19. This proposal was adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the emergency situation has been extended until 14 February. I thank the rapporteur for doing so at the last minute, thank you all, ending this point and at the same time ending this meeting. We'll meet again tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., we'll continue the proper meeting.
