ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u1	8. Proposal for a law on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Resources, as amended /German press 966/6/6/ - returned to the Senate The Senate approved the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 966/7, information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Hana Žáková among us and I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček comment on the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I'll ask my colleagues in the room for more peace, we'll continue the negotiations, and you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to comment very briefly on the return of the Senate of the law, which was to a large extent very complicated and on which we have actually spent several months. I will no longer go back to all the negotiations that we have been having, how opinions have changed, how a final view has gradually been anchored. I would simply like to say that I consider the Senate's proposal to be a compromise at the moment, I consider it reasonable. I think that all parties that have acted emotionally enough under this law have come to a rational agreement, and I am glad that so far, at least in the last few weeks when this was discussed, everyone has kept their word, including us, who are submitting the law. We all know that this is an absolutely fundamental law for the Dukovan project, but not only for the Dukovan project, it is, of course, a law that opens up the possibilities of investing other nuclear resources, and we are applying to them because we all know that it will not be enough to build only one Dukovan source in the future. It will undoubtedly be about other blocks. We believe that this law opens the way for other resources to be invested, whether they are in Dukovany or in Temelín. I appreciate the political consensus at the moment, which is a fundamental condition for the development of the core in the Czech Republic, and I believe that at this moment we will accept this compromise Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u3	Thank you, and now I ask Senator Hana Žáková to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u4	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, dear colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies. I am going with the back of the Senate, which was essentially a big compromise, but I thank you very much for that, and first of all I would like to thank for the cooperation between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, which I greatly appreciate. I kind of imagine how we should work with each other, the upper and lower chambers, and what the outcome should eventually look like. [[16.20 hours]] We looked at the press quite closely, we requested it even before he came to the Senate, and already in March we discussed it on the subcommittee on energy and transport. Then we returned to him until he came from you. It has been requested by several committees, both the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security, the Constitutional and Legal Committee, the Sub-Committee on Energy and Transport and the Permanent Senate Committee on Public Funding Supervision and the Analysis of Financial Administration Control Procedures. In addition, we also organized a round table, which took place on 22 June, and thank you very much that the Deputy Prime Minister was also present on it and could assure my colleagues, former mayors and mayors from around the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant that this law is a priority and Dukovany that they are a priority. Since I come from the region and have been there for several years, I would ask you to consider supporting the amendments from the Senate. On the one hand, there is an amendment that addresses the security policy, and on the other hand, we have taken the liberty of inspiring your accompanying resolution - even the Senate has adopted the same accompanying resolution on this press. I don't know if I'm gonna get to the floor anymore, so I'd like to see you in this composition for the last time, so I'd like to thank you for your work in the Chamber of Deputies, for the four years that you haven't had an easy one, across the political spectrum, at the time of the covide, in what has happened to us, our country, for making wise decisions, even though some decisions have been regional, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u5	Senator, I'm gonna interrupt you and ask the discussion group on my left to move it out eventually. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u6	I just want to thank you for the work you've been doing here. How many times you had to sit around, how many hours it was that you were separated from your families. To thank your families for their support and support. And I wish you, whether the election is in your favor or not, so remember, even how many times a loss means a big win. Thank you very much for this, and I appreciate the cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u7	Thank you. I've decided not to call the senator to the point. So now he has the opportunity to speak to the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which was the economic committee, Mr Dolínek, whom I have seen, and is interested in speaking. If appropriate, Mr Koten may then be prepared as rapporteur for the Security Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u8	Thank you, just for a little while. What the Senate has adopted is, in principle, not contrary to what has been discussed on the committee, because, in principle, we have avoided that area, in the individual discussion, so as rapporteur, I have a neutral relationship with it. For the ČSSD, I would like to declare that we will support the Senate's return in the form that the Senate has approved, because we consider this a valuable compromise. It is important to start implementing this, which most leaders have declared in our discussions in the past weeks, so I think it is essential that this law be passed, and we will support the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u9	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Radek Koten, may comment, but I do not see him. In that case, Mrs Langšádlová has written to me, so Mr Třešňák, who has applied from his place, so... please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My statement will be brief. I would like to declare that as TOP 09 and SPOLU we support the core as part of our energy mix. We believe that as a source of basic load, it must also be part of it in the future, whether in the form of a standard nuclear block or in the future of modular reactors. I am very glad that, despite all the discussions on the Government Committee and on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, there has been an agreement. There are certainly many questions about the economic area before us, whether it be the question of the state's participation in this investment, whether it be the question of the state's participation in the EDU II Supervisory and Management Board, whether it be the question of going into the future to discuss the weight of individual criteria. I think it is quite clear that three participants are sufficient, as experts have declared, and I am very glad that we have reached an agreement and that the government has taken the decision that suppliers from Russia and China will not participate in the tender, because the geostrategic and security dimension is also important. I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation, especially to colleagues from the Senate, but also to the Minister and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Of course, we support the Senate proposal because it includes increased security criteria in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u11	Thank you. After I called on the Member, I noted President Bartošek's application, and I presume with priority rights, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u12	For me briefly, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to thank Minister Havlíček here. The path to the adoption of this law was not easy. You know that there have been long discussions around him. I am glad that, in the end, a common consensus has been reached, which I suppose, has been supported by the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, including the agreement in the Senate on the form of an amendment, so I also thank the Senate for its role in the preparation of this law. And I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to support the Senate bill, because it actually remembers security and security for the Czech Republic, and I believe that this is a priority for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u13	Thank you, and now Mr Třešňák. Before they arrive, I'll introduce the House with a note. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes to us today from 15.45 to the end of the day for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u14	Good afternoon. Madam Senator, Mr Vice Prime Minister, honourable colleagues. On the one hand, we acknowledge the Senate compromise that has returned here because, above all, it has clarified the House's amendments addressing the security safeguards and preventing the participation of Russian and Chinese companies in the tender for the fifth block of the Dukovany power plant. However, the original law primarily addresses public support and funding itself. There have been no changes in the Senate in this regard, or there have been no changes in some administrative matters and administrative matters. Of course, on our part, the declaration of core support is here, but based on other principles. We have mentioned them here several times, I will probably not repeat here that both the investor model and the public support model should be designed differently, and this concerns both the project itself, namely Dukovany 5, as well as the further development of nuclear energy, including small modular reactors, which still have little support in funding from the public budget, the TAČR and so on. And in conclusion, let me make a brief remark here. The Vice Prime Minister has heard it from me several times. We're talking about eight years late on core development, and I'm just gonna remind you of January 2014, when it was the current Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, then in the role of Finance Minister, he cut off the project of building two blocks of Temelín power plant just as Minister of Finance of Sobotkův's government. Were it not for this, two blocks of Temelín power plant could already have been in the process of construction, and the discussion could have been much easier here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Kubíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the club YES, I am expressing my support for the Senate bill. Anyway, we're at the beginning of the road. I also thank the opposition for the fact that in the end negotiations on this were very constructive, very positive, but Dukovany only the first part. All predictions for the future show an increased need for electricity production of the Czech Republic including consumption and so on. We're going to electromobility and a lot of things that will require these resources, if possible, pure resources. I know I'm gonna make a smile on some sides because the core is considered a clean source by someone, not by someone. [[16.30 hours]] But in any case, I would like to point out that the journey cannot end with Dukovan. I'm a South Bohemian MP, we have Temelín there, we have a construction set up in a much higher stage of development, so I would be very happy if the Minister of Industry and Trade would support the other resources. But he expressed it in his comments. We have a high population support. And let's not forget one more little thing, and that's the storage of nuclear waste. There I think that the Ministry of Industry and Trade and we, as Members, have a certain reputation. So there's a lot of support for me. Thank you to the opposition, thank you to the coalition and good luck.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u17	Thank you. I apologize, Mr Kubíček did not speak with priority rights, because President Faltýnek is present. Now, if anyone else checks in? Member Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u18	Thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly not expect me to praise either the House or the Senate version of this bill. We have already interpreted our own in the context of the discussion on this matter. Unfortunately, the situation on the world market of nuclear suppliers is clear to the detriment of the Czech Republic. We are talking about the fact that the elimination of two real core builders leaves us with three others who are able to replace these capacities and satisfy Czech demand. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Westinghouse, which is the only one in quotation marks that is really capable of being implemented, has problems with construction and capacity is not enough, because now he has signed other agreements and we will perhaps get in the order of the third, fourth, fifth countries to carry out such extensive construction with us. It's a problem, but Westinghouse in the terms we demand won't be able to implement it, and that's a fact. The Francouz you rely on are expressing their Minister for Nuclear Energy by losing France's expertise and ability to build a core. Among other things, they will shut down 14 nuclear power plants, building one, but with a huge delay and fail to complete it. According to Montel's official server, the Minister said that only in 2022 to 2023 will they invest millions of euros in restoring France's ability to build a core, in professional companies, subcontractors, and in investing the possibility of construction, in the intelligence that the Czech Republic has historically lost - and it had it. So the Francouz are at the beginning of the ability to build a core for the world and they want to return to it. That's the second contractor that could have realized Dukovany, so again, the term that the Ministry has said to itself has shifted. The third capable supplier is theoretically companies from Korea, but they have the problem that Dukovany is not technically able to implement due to the size of their nuclear reactors. It's already neglected that Dukovany has set a lower performance, and they don't have that in their production program right now, and if anyone claims that you can build a 14-year-old and reduce the performance by turning the wheel, that it's gonna be okay, it really doesn't work that way, because it's not tested and getting those certificates are next and further years. Not that it doesn't work, but you have to add those years and years to that, and at that point we get to the inability to meet the already delayed deadlines for the nuclear reactor replacement in Dukovany. This is what these laws have contributed to, that the Czech citizen, who expects the nuclear power plant, nuclear energy and nuclear energy in the Czech Republic to be the fundamental pillar of environmentalization, the fundamental pillar that will prevent the increase in energy prices, and the fundamental pillar that will keep the Czech Republic in an energy-free space independent of import, is threatened, if not completely destroyed. This possibility, this dream of the Czech Republic, to become a nuclear power back, left here with this law. Generations of people who are just now retired or just before retirement, able to learn and continue and lead the Czech path of intelligence, capable of building nuclear energy, will thus be lost. Before we allow these foreign companies to come here, they'll be willing to come here - because the time I've already indicated is not here - so we'll have no one to put up with to take over the relay. And before we raise new young core experts, we'll be just like the Francouz. It will be five, ten years before us, and it will be a huge cost that we will have to put into this to raise the future. But I don't think anyone cares, ideology comes first. In this I understand many politicians. But please don't tell the citizens it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be a walk in the park, because it's not true. The terms in the Czech Republic's energy concept regarding the realization of buildings in Dukovany are already unrealistic thanks to this law. If the government doesn't start working quickly on the realization of Temelín, which, paradoxically, has a greater capacity to be realized than Dukovany thanks to its limitations, we can really wrap it all up in nuclear power. Remember that nuclear reactors work with an extended lifetime, they should no longer theoretically go. We are constantly under the bombardment of our neighbors who reject the core, and yet we extend and they wait for any pretext when we get to the state that the core simply ends with us. And we will not have an adequate replacement because we have decided politically, only politically, to eliminate the only two who are really able to build and build the core now in the world. I'm not saying Westinghouse is a bad company, but it just doesn't have the capacity. I'm not saying the Francouz can't build a core. But when they stopped building in their homes and stopped building in the world, they lost their capacity to realize, and it's a huge problem. This is what we have to say to ourselves, and we have to tell the citizens that this is just the way it is. And here, if the government, as a matter of fact, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, doesn't immediately start reviewing the plans for nuclear construction, the nuclear mix with us, doesn't start looking for new resources and focuses on it: There's actually enough time - because there's talk of five, ten years - and we might not even be here anymore, so what we're gonna worry about, no matter what they do after us, that would be a bear service. This law will pass, it will be in the Czech legal order. That's right, unfortunately. But if we don't start taking measures so that all of us here are able to stand before the citizens and say: Yes, nuclear energy has a future and will be implemented in terms that this government determines, then we just lie in our pockets that we want to support nuclear energy, but for political reasons we do not want to do so. And now it doesn't matter if they're political reasons that we don't like Russia or China, or if they're reasons that we don't like the energy produced from the nucleus because it doesn't fit our green ideology, but it's just a fact. And that's the problem with this law. That is why we did not vote for the version that came and was approved by the House, or the Senate, which is enriched with a resolution that calls for... The challenges will not help to build one brick and the challenges will not help to deliver one megawatt of electricity to the Czech electricity network, unfortunately. I apologize for this long performance, but it didn't give me the optimism that sounded at the microphone, and with the thanks to everyone, it's like the tapes were already being cut here and the core was being built. Real technical evidence speaks against those deadlines, Minister. You probably know that because you've been involved in these debates and conferences and you're seeing the situation in the world. But politics outweighed technology and citizens, make it clear for yourself. It may not bother you so far, so far you're able to survive a 20% increase in energy prices, maybe even more. You will rely on subsidies from the European Union for the fact that we may not have the core that Europe and the Union do not consider to be an environmental resource, only tolerating it as an environmental resource, but not considering it for the future. We will get even more into the subsidy system that works in Europe. But I fear that it will end with our citizens as it does with the Dutch people, when the standard Dutch household, as I have been instructed, is that they are set 17 degrees in the room and walk at home in sweaters because they cannot afford or do not want the richer for environmental reasons - it is also possible - to drown because the prices are so huge there that they simply survive. [[16.40 hours]] The term energy poverty is already in the Czech Republic, and when you look at it, it is an increasingly serious term in Europe. There are already countries in Europe that are serious about this and looking for solutions. Unfortunately, often it's just subsidies - that we give subsidies so they're not poor enough to heat them up. But everything at the beginning has a decision, and that is often forgotten, that political decision based purely on politics or politics, or whatever you call it - the world's vision doesn't really matter. But the technical output and the real one for citizens is the basic problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u19	This speech raised several factual points. The first was signed in by President Stanjura, but he withdrew it in favour of priority law, so now Member Dolínek, then Member Čižinský with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It's just... I thought we were very factual here and how we're keeping ourselves on a material level, and now fellow Luzar here has mumbled everything through the fifth over the ninth. There are no two built blocks covered in white tarp, and if we allow someone else to participate, the white tarp will rip off and two blocks will be connected to the transmission grid tomorrow. There's no such thing. This is where we're talking about a normal finishing contest. It's according to some principles, the Ministry has prepared something, next to the law running other steps that are. Mr. Vice Prime Minister is keeping it clear about all these steps. The idea that if there was a Russian supplier at this point, we have a legion of experts here, and if it wasn't a Russian supplier, the experts would disappear, it's nonsense. We're still in the same phase here. And we, as social democracies, have declared from the outset that, in addition to wanting energy that is self-sufficient and safe for the Czechs, we also declare belonging to NATO, to the European Union. And what's been going on in the last few months has shown that the steps that the Ministry has taken, and I thank you for that, are necessary for us to be able to do all these things... in them. So for me, it was a great demagogy that was said here. Clearly, they are more important than these ideological phrases of the steps that the Ministry must take. I have said this in recent weeks and I say it again: regardless of what the government will be like after the elections, regardless of whether the government is set up for a month or half a year, these steps must now run in September, October, November, December, and only the government must adapt to that timetable. Otherwise, we have a problem, and we can't solve it with ideology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Čižinský, with a factual remark. I'll point out that we have a fixed point at 6:00. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u22	I won't delay, I just wanted to respond to the previous speaker, Mr. Luzar. I wanted to say that this law is here precisely because it is non-market support. These are guarantees that will be paid by all taxpayers or the Czech state, and therefore by all taxpayers and all energy consumers. If it wasn't the assumption that this was all going to be non-markety, it needs to be read: expensive, so this law wouldn't be here at all. The law is not economically sound, unfortunately, there is a great assumption that it will increase electricity to all customers and all citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u23	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kobza, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to remind you, after the ideological storm that has been said here, that behind our lobsters, in Hungary in Paki, Rosatoma is building a nuclear power plant that has a budget of EUR 12.6 billion for two thousand megawatt blocks. Of this, Russia is giving 10 billion intergovernmental credit, 40% of the entire contract will be awarded to the local industry. And we see that it is simply possible that we here are obedient to certain instructions, certain pressures, while Westinghouse did not build two blocks in Vogtle, Virginia, has problems with the construction of a power plant in China, so I am deeply convinced that this law - perhaps there is a certain hope - the next House will find as obscure as lex Búšehr, which is completely useless, but despite all this for political reasons must remain here. [[Georgia?]] So I just wanted to remind you that the reality of the energy market is very different from what colleagues are trying to do here. The variant that instead of the core, by not being who built it, we're going to go to steam-gas power plants as coal power plants close, so I'd just like to remind you that the production of electricity from gas is essentially the most expensive way we can have, and of course our people are going to pay for it. Moreover, the gas will be as Russian as it will anyway, because it will walk through Nord Stream II, but with German transit fees. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u25	Thank you. Now, Chairman Stanjura. Before they arrive at the microphone, I will introduce the House with a note from Mrs Langšádlová, who apologizes between 18 and 21 o'clock. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u26	Thank you for the floor. In the end, I figured those two minutes might not be enough for me -- maybe they will be. I was provoked by Mr Luzar's speech. His entire complaint is that the Rus can't build it if you translate it. That's all it is. The Číňan are unable to build a nuclear power plant in the Czech Republic or Europe. Period. I'm passing political reasons, I'm passing security reasons. They're not capable. See how the Rus are doing, or how the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary is not working. And it's true that, for security reasons, even after all the security forces and government authorities didn't recommend it, we agreed with the government that the tender was excluded, that's a good thing. That the terms are tight, that's for sure. It's not here... I don't know any relevant political force that would reject nuclear power. Let's not pretend there's a duel here, if yes or no. The only challenge was whether we would accept the security risk and allow them to participate in the competitions in countries that we do not know would possibly use problems or the construction of a nuclear power plant to impose any political pressure on the Czech Republic, or whether we would not allow them. And it was mostly consistent, so that's good. However, I would like to call on the Minister not to hesitate. He knows from us that the moment we made this agreement, that there will be no companies from Russia and China, that there is no need to wait for a new government. We repeatedly urged him to trigger the tender so we wouldn't pick up any more delays, because the terms are actually at risk. It's on the edge. It can be done, we don't have to scream that it won't make it, but it's a shame, Mr. Secretary, that you're hesitating. The technical aspect of the documentation is ready. Today, the legislative process will be formally completed, I assume the President of the Republic will sign it, so there is no argument that we are waiting for a bill. From our point of view behind our coalition, you can even write a tender. There is no need to wait for the post-election negotiations, the House's establishment, the new government with confidence, because there may be another delay, and it would be a shame. So I don't think it's for any mutual thanks, common sense has won, and we've got a lot of work to do. Energy prices: many opponents of completion or those who doubt economic advantage argue the future price from the new nuclear source in Dukovany. First, it must be said that the price will be - or the price guaranteed by the State will be - about 10 percent of the total electricity produced. And two: if we fail to stop and reverse the Green Deal process, the energy will still be cheap from the nuclear power plant. Here there is a much greater danger of increasing energy, and I think it is in the Czech national interest for us to implement and adapt well to stop - and we must trust those who do not have the experience to catch up and to overtake the capitalist world, we know that from communism. Then we know, I think the Lisbon Strategy was called, catch up and overtake the United States in innovation. It's gone quietly. And now, in my opinion, Europe is setting unrealistic targets because it is setting them itself and not taking into account the great continents, the great polluters. This is not natural innovation in industry, but political decisions. And here, ladies and gentlemen, there's a much higher cost of energy than we might even dream today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u27	That was the last application in the debate at the moment. I don't see another one, so I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? The Minister is interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u28	I don't usually take the final words because I'm already pragmatic to get this all over quickly, but since this is a very important law, it's really very short. I'd like to say good ending, all good. I realize that this has been extremely difficult and perhaps symbolic, that in the last hours of this House, we are voting on a nuclear law that we have spent almost a year of our lives on. No doubt many of us could say that he could be even better. Yes, I can imagine that he might be a little different, but in the finals, I respect the political debate in Parliament, respect democracy, and respect everyone's expression, and that it must ultimately be about a compromise. The compromise has been found, and I am very happy that it has been driven by what is perhaps unique in the Czech Republic, and let us try not to miss that, and this is a general consensus that nuclear blocks or nuclear blocks or nuclear energy in general are essential to us. Without it, we really can't replace the 10,000 megawatts we're shutting down because of decarbonization because of coal. And that's not what I'm talking about when Dukovany's going to expire and how we're going to invest further in renewables, which is also extremely important. It is already manifesting itself that this was an important and correct step with regard to the price of electricity. We all see what's happening in the world's markets, we all see the price going on. And if we helped by this law to set up a model for the purchase of the price of electricity, it is almost certain that the 10 percent of the energy we will buy through this source will be cheaper than if we were normally in the markets at that time. Thank you for the discussion. I respect her. And I would really like to ask everyone to support the finals symbolically. It's a turning point in this House. And I dare say that anyone who does not vote in favour of this Senate vomit at the moment will not vote in favour of nuclear support in the Czech Republic. Thank you for all the time we've been discussing this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-012-008.u29	Thank you. I don't register any more final words. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. [[Gong.]] ... and proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Before the colleagues meet, I'll introduce you to a note. Mr Výborný apologies for today's meeting from 15.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Before the colleagues meet, I will tell you that the agreement of the majority of Members present is needed to adopt the following resolution, and the motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2012 Coll. -" Now I don't know if it was a check-out request? [[Yes.]] It was a check-out request. Please sign in. And I'm gonna have to read it again because I don't know where I left off. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Resources, as amended, pursuant to House Press 966/6, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 966/7.' I see that everyone who wants to be present is present in the hall. Initiating vote 84. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 84, 128 Members and Members of Parliament, for 100, against 8. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate and have therefore agreed with it. Thank you, Senator, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. Now the next point, which is point number
