ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-003-536.u1	536. Information of the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister to the planned journey of Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček to Moscow I would remind you that on 4 May we decided not to discuss this point in public. In this context, we are under § 68 para. 4 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure have adopted a resolution that no shorthand report will be taken from the discussion of this item, nor will a sound record be made. At the same time we agreed to the participation of guests: Jan Beroun, Marek Šimandl, Michal Koudelka, Pavel Zeman and Jan Švejdar. Since, on Tuesday, 4 May, information was made that classified information may be heard during the discussion of this point, I am warning you again pursuant to § 65 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Any person who has or has access to classified information shall remain silent and shall not allow access to it to an unauthorised person. Any breach of this obligation shall be dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation. During the discussion of classified information in the Chamber, there shall be no threat or leak of classified information, there shall be no recording devices such as mobile phones, laptops, smart watches, etc. in the Chamber. Only persons meeting the conditions of access to classified information may also be present in the Chamber. I'm about to announce a 15-minute recess so we can slip into a private mode, but Vice-President Pikal is asking for a word in accordance with Section 67 before we open the point. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-003-536.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to respond to two little things that were going on about the last meeting in public space. For one thing, there was some complaint about us ending, or was expected to end 30 minutes earlier, and who was to blame. I don't think it's anyone's fault, it's just the technique we have here. If one of the Members is dissatisfied with how long it takes to turn on all the TV circuits and so on, then maybe they'll turn to the House Committee, which is the body that can deal with it. And the other thing. My name was mentioned in the course of the negotiations. I would just like to say that I spoke with a procedural remark that there is no need to interrupt the secret meeting to carry out the procedural vote and open it to the public, so that the procedural vote would be public, because it would take us 30 minutes to open it and then another 15 minutes to re-closure, which I thought was a waste of the House's time, and I wanted to protect it with my performance, which didn't take more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-003-536.u3	Well, Vice-President, thank you. And then I'll put out a 15-minute break until 16.31 to secure a non-public hearing. At the time of the interruption, we strongly ask that you remove all the facilities I was talking about from the Chamber and not carry them with you during the continuation. At the same time, I ask you to take all personal belongings, such as bags and other hand luggage, from the O.R. I ask the staff of the Chamber of Deputies to ensure that only persons meeting the conditions of access to classified information are present in the Chamber of Deputies. [[The sitting is suspended at 16.16 pm.]] [[The meeting continued at 16.31 pm.]] This part of the session of the 98th meeting was declared non-public by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and is not accompanied by a stenographic record.
