ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 864/ - second reading We started the discussion of this point on 14 April of this year. The item was interrupted after the start of the general debate. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the agricultural committee. The Committees' resolution was delivered as House prints 864/1 to 864/3. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table under the authority of the Government, Minister of Health Petr Arenberger and rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Member Rostislav Vyzula. We will therefore now continue the interrupted general debate to which Members have come forward. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Minister Arenberger in the government bench is debating with his colleague.]] I'd like to ask the Minister of Health to sit at the rapporteur's desk. We will therefore now continue the interrupted general debate to which Members have come forward. First of all, it is Mr Vojtěch Adam and Mrs Věra Adámková will be prepared. Please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to imagine four amendments to this press, to the amendment to the Act on addictive substances and to the amendment to the Act on Medicines. My amendments concern that part of the Act on Medicines and responds and actually reflect the digitalisation area in this area, because one of the components of the amendment is the progressing digitalisation within the electronic prescription and digitalisation and electronisation of blue strip recipes. My proposals relate to the area of electronisation in several parts. For one thing, it is an amendment which is presented under number 7696, which aims at the introduction of so-called open data, i.e. publication of data that can be published by the State Institute for Drug Control. This institute has a number of important data for various analyses and statistics, whether it is a question of data on distributed medicines, registered medicines, medicines that are prescribed in accordance with the electronic prescription and are registered in the Central repository of electronic recipes, and other data that are described in this proposal. I believe that, as part of the transparency of the state administration, and it is repeatedly referred to by various academic institutions and so on, it is appropriate that this data be published in a published form in a machine-readable form, i.e. in the form of open data. So that is the first amendment I am proposing. The second amendment concerns the development of electronic vaccine transcription. We already have - and this is also due to this honourable Chamber of Deputies - very well know that the electronic recipe works very well that the patient's drug record works. However, what is missing from the drug record so far, and I think it should be there, are just all the vaccines applied, because the vaccine is a medicinal product de lege. In this respect, it is appropriate that all vaccines applied to the patient should also be recorded in the eRecept system and the drug record so that the physician administering the vaccines will have this overview in the patient, and it will be the physician who, after administration, will introduce the vaccines and information about them into the eRecept system. Let's just say it's another integration within the electronic transcription that's been going very well. From my point of view, it is appropriate that all vaccines that are administered to the patient are part of the eRecept system, and that they are also part of a drug record that is accessible to the appropriate treating physician, as well as to the patient, who can find out very easily today all the information within the mobile application or on the Internet after entering the login data, and therefore has it in one place. So that's the second amendment that's in the system under number 8102. We are submitting another amendment under number 8114 together with our colleagues. It relates to the area of distance dispensing of drugs, when we propose that the option be based on the request of a patient who sends his electronic recipe to the appropriate selected pharmacy so that this pharmacy can process this prescription and issue medications remotely, that is to say, to ensure that the drugs are imported from the pharmacy into the hands of the patient. In this proposal, it is expected that it can only be pharmacies that have been operating as pharmacies for some time, at least five years on the market. At the same time there are conditions concerning territoriality, which means that the medicines can only be issued within the district where the pharmacy is located, and the pharmacy must also have some opening hours as a standard stone pharmacy. So there are, let's say, conditions to prevent this service from being operated by some ad hoc established e-shops and the like, but only pharmacy with pharmacists who, of course, have an irreplaceable role in issuing and processing recipes for their patients. The amendment is also based on inspiration in other countries. Today, about ten countries of the European Union, including Germany, Scandinavia, Italy, and others, allow this right of patients to order their medications in such a distance and the drugs were delivered to them by the pharmacy. I think it is appropriate that we introduce this right - it is not an obligation, it is a right - the patient has allowed him, this possibility and distance dispensation of prescription drugs in the Czech Republic. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Czech Republic we currently have about 98% penetration within the electronic prescription. We are one of the leaders in Europe in this regard. And that is why I think it is time for us to use this tool, which has also been introduced for distance dispensing drugs. In addition, we know that today there is a very significant development of distance services in the whole health sector, telemedicine, the possibility of short-term consultation with a doctor, and these services are linked to the possibility of distance dispensation that we and colleagues are now proposing. So that's another amendment under 8114. [[15.30 hours]] The last amendment relates again to the area of, say, the electronisation of digitalisation, but in this negative sense it is based on some long-term debate and the practice of the State Institute for Drug Control, where the SÚKL repeatedly deals with incentives and administrative procedures in terms of illegal drug sales through websites that are either counterfeit drugs or are prescription drugs that are so freely sold to patients, in any case they are medicines that can endanger patients directly to health. This applies, for example, to various anabolics and the like that are, say, available on the Internet, but by illegal means. Today, the State Institute for Drug Control, of course, leads administrative proceedings with providers of these services within various websites. The problem is that efficiency is relatively low, often those providers are needed in other countries. Therefore, I suggest that the State Institute for Drug Control should be able to legally block these sites that offer counterfeit and illegal drugs. In fact, the legislation was inspired by a similar regulation that was approved a few years ago in the area of illegal gambling, as applied today by the Ministry of Finance, where the sites offering illegal gambling can be blocked in this way, as well as if the websites offering counterfeit and illegal drugs are the same, so the State Institute for Drug Control should be able to block this website so that it can give this obligation to Internet providers, so that these medicines do not endanger patients' health and life. This is the last amendment, which is under number 8115. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u3	I also apologise to the honourable Member, because you are Mr Adam Vojtěch, I am sorry, because, as I have written here in the order, I switched it. I'm sorry. A point of fact, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u4	Yes, thank you for your word. Let me just say that I have a conflict of interest before I bring what I have to say. I'm a doctor, but I have a wife at home - a pharmacy master who is a clinical pharmacist, and I have this information from her. 8114 - The amendment made by the previous speaker says literally: prescription drugs may not be issued by the magistrate of pharmacy, who studies four, someone even five years, but can bring it to you from some warehouse, bring you a cure, say: Here you have it, thank you, sign it for me. That's not how it's supposed to be. Or if that's how it's supposed to be and this goes, let's cancel the Master's degree, I mean, the Magisters of Pharmacy, because they don't really need to be at this point anymore. The computer will evaluate that you've entered a drug here, an electronization, it's coming somewhere, the store will give you this drug. In this case, what do we even have drugstores for? You know, a pharmacy isn't like a store, it's like a drugstore. It's also business at the moment, of course, but it's a place where the master of pharmacy has something to tell you about the medicine, to find out interactions, to tell you something and so on. In short, and well, sometimes it may even replace the doctor who is not and will not be in the future. So for me, it's something that probably doesn't belong, or we can, but let's cancel pharmacies in this respect and replace them with electronic dispensaries or e-shops or mail order services. It's an option. I'm not defending myself, but I just wanted to tell you what the problem is. Magistrates are fighting it so hard, they say, "Well, then we're useless here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u5	Now two factual points, Mr Adam Vojtěch and then Mr Patrik Nacher. Ambassador, you have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. It is a second reading, only the reading of the amendments. I'm sure we're still going to have a debate about this, but I have to set the record straight here, what my honored colleague Milan Brázdil said. It's not what he says. The proposal clearly counts, and it is quite explicit that the medication can only be given by a university-educated pharmacist, that is, only by a pharmacist, it is explicitly written there, and, of course, after processing the eRecipe, after evaluating interactions within the drug record and the like, it will pass the drug on to some transport service that from the pharmacy, place A, will take the medicine to place B with all the information that is intended for the patient, in writing, and that the patient can subsequently be contacted, if requested, by telephone from the pharmacist, so that he can possibly answer some of his questions. So the role of a pharmacist, the role of a pharmacist, is clearly accentuated, is indisputable. And I agree that without pharmacists, of course, it is not possible, and it was never meant to be. The proposal, of course, assumes that only a pharmacy and only a pharmacist, a university-educated pharmacist can do it. Well, that's just to set it straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u7	Mr Patrik Nacher will also make a point of fact, and Mr Milan Brázdil will still be prepared for the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u8	Good afternoon. As co-president, so as not to hide behind a colleague of Adam Vojtěch, I would also like to respond to Milan Brázdil. I thought we were gonna save it for the third reading. That's too bad, but I don't think my honored colleague has read the amendment because it's not really like that. And if he was talking about any personal contact between a pharmacist and a patient, that's not what's happening today. I'd be happy to show him and present specific examples, like people with disabilities who haven't been to a pharmacy for ten years, where an assistant or a family member picks it up. That means, on the contrary, what we're proposing is after the debate, or after it started, so that only the pharmacist has to publish it, it has to be a pharmacy that works for at least five years, so that someone doesn't start something quick tomorrow and then get into business. He must have opening hours, I guess, eight hours a day, which means he's a regular pharmacy. There's still the territoriality we talked about at the executions, so it's here to make it work. It is simply that the person who is particularly immobile and does not get to the pharmacy, so that he can get to the drugs and it can work, as it works in ten countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u9	Mr Milan Brázdil is now making a point of fact. Mrs Věra Adámková is ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u10	Let me respond. Every person with this kind of immobile has an assistant, there's no problem, that's for sure not. And by the way, all I'm saying is that about a year ago, we rejected this law, but in the Drug Act, we largely rejected it. You had an opinion, and that was a good one. I think there's an attempt to get it back somewhere that maybe doesn't belong, but that's just my insight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u11	Mrs Věra Adámková will now appear and Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u12	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to Amendment 8168, which concerns more or less the refinement of terminology. It is such a legislative technical regulation, where the government's draft was not consistently followed by an established term. It is a new provision: § 2 letter. (g) and the concept of cannabis production is introduced, or it is adapted here, actually unifies the taxonomy and so that we can meet all the requirements. This proposed amendment to § 5 para. 5 responds to the findings of control bodies such as Customs Administration, State Agricultural and Food Inspection, Ministry of Health on the incorrect interpretation of the provisions of the law in relation to the treatment of cannabis plants species and varieties, which have a content of up to 0,3 % of the substances of the tetrahydrocannabinoid group and it has been found that different bodies explain the possibilities. These are mainly collectors' items, industrial applications, where even the peaks are sold, the May. This activity is already contrary to the law on addictive substances, because cannabis is an addictive substance within the meaning of Section 2 (b). (a) the Act on addictive substances and, at the same time, is also defined in Section 2 (a). (d) the Act on addictive substances. So it is necessary to unify this term so that we can meet all the requirements that are imposed on the new bills. Thus, this proposed amendment consists in the regulation of legislative inaccuracies, also concerning the competence of the State Institute for Drug Control in relation to the provisions of Paragraph 77 (1). 7 Law 378 and other related laws. [[15.40 hours]] The distribution of centrally authorised medicinal products shall be carried out in accordance with the arrangements contained in Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 726/2004, laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency, which was further subject to additional indicators. Please support this Amendment 8168, which is actually legislatively technical, only by specifying and unifying the taxonomy used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u13	Mr David Kasal will now appear and Mr Tomáš Vymazal will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to my amendment under House document 8160. The reason is an effort to strengthen the adictological service. In particular, Section 13 of the Act 167, it concerns a very delicate and fundamental topic of the Czech Republic, which is the need to strengthen and develop substitution therapy and other pharmacological innovations in the field of addictive substances. In recent years, we have been repeatedly and rightly criticized by various international agencies and structures, such as the WHO, for a relatively low number of patients using substitution therapy methods, which undoubtedly became one of the revolutionary shifts of the entire adictology field in the last four decades. Law 167 thus directly and indirectly affects the fundamental need to strengthen and improve the state of this treatment regime in the Czech Republic while at the same time strengthening the latest pharmacological instruments in this area, because of course it is as crucial for our country as opiate substitution, as well as solving problems related to the use of traditional methamphetamine. It is a great debt to a generation of experts and pioneers of these methods in the 1990s. However, there is an existing problem in strengthening and professionalism of services in this area, where the original very strong and successful tradition of medical programs, built by the generation of professor Jaroslav Skála, has been followed by new services and new types of ambulances as well as a completely new profession of medical worker - adictologist. It is this profession that has become key to new types of treatment programmes and is crucial in terms of promoting pharmacologically specialised treatment. However, it is in this area that we are facing very high demands for professionalism and professional level of training and qualifications, and there was a need to increase the threshold of these requirements precisely in connection with the novelties and high demands of these new treatment methods, which goes far beyond the original plan and idea in the creation of this profession and its anchoring into Act No. 96/2004 Coll. This created a need to adjust the higher qualification level of these health professionals and move this entire profession one level higher. In addition to the basic qualification level of the adictologist as a universal expert for routine medical operations, we therefore need closer groups of highly erudized experts, from which we also require a higher level of university education before entering the specialization training itself. I'd just like to document it by the fact that three children were admitted to our hospital a week ago, which was a 13-year-old child. The amount of children who consume alcohol is currently relatively large. Of course, covid contributed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u15	Mr Tomáš Vymazal will now appear and Mr Miloslav Janulík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly summarize what amendments I am making to this House press. I'm going to comment on them in more detail at the third reading, because I don't want to keep it here today. First of all, this is a compromise amendment, which I prepared with my colleague Patrik Nacher and which is inspired by the proposal by Petr Pleva from the ODS. This proposal would allow adult blameless citizens to grow three cannabis plants and deal with the resulting product. This compromise amendment does not allow a free handover, which has been very critical of our last proposal. I intend to read this proposal in two variants, which differ in how much information needs to be provided when fulfilling the newly introduced reporting obligation. The first option only requires identification of the person of the grower, proof of his integrity, identification of the place where the hemp will be grown, or consent of the owner of the property to the cultivation and processing of the hemp. The second, stricter variant also requires the delivery of photodocumentation of growing areas. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure the availability of cannabis for own use. As part of the third proposal, I would like to level out the illogicality that has been rightly referred to in the long term. Growing small quantities of cannabis for personal use is an offence, but processing the same amount is a criminal offence. I point out that it's still the same cannabis, you just dry it out for example, and it's taken as processing, and it's already a criminal offence. I therefore propose to classify both cultivation and processing as an offence. It is necessary to guarantee the legal certainty of citizens on this action, which has such low social harm. Another proposal includes the unification of the use of definitions in the currently misguided terms of cannabis and cannabis plants. Something like this is absolutely necessary in an area in which criminal penalties are at risk. Since I consider the prevention of risky addictive behaviour to be crucial, I will also propose the possibility of dealing with a small amount of addictive substance in the provision of adictological services, for example when applying the substance under professional supervision in the context of adictological intervention. This is also related to extending the authorisation of the Government of the Czech Republic on the issue that all substances should be on the list of prohibited addictive substances. This is the contents of my sixth proposal. The last four amendments I propose correct the long overlooked inaccuracies and illogicalities referred to by both the professional and lay public. These include, for example, the limitation of the issue of import and export permits, the need for higher education to work with addictive substances in those positions that do not require such high qualifications, or the extension of exemptions from the regime for the treatment of addictive substances for botanical gardens. I consider these proposals to be completely non-conflict, the last four, and therefore I will not discuss them in detail. Specific justifications are given in the amendments themselves. Thank you for your attention and I beg you for your support at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u17	Mr Miloslav Janulík will now appear and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I certainly won't say I didn't want to, but I had to. I didn't have to, but I wanted to get out. I will try to be short, of course I will talk about my colleagues' amendment, basically mail order sales. This amendment keeps coming back to us with iron regularity, and we are trying to eliminate it with iron regularity for many different reasons. It's always interesting that doctors don't present it, that there are a few doctors in the House who in our practice, daily practice, prescribed tens of thousands of recipes, had tens of thousands of interactions with patients, and we know from our practice and life how important the person of the pharmacist is. It's a pity there's no one sitting between us, so my colleague Brázdil can present the experience of family, but we know that the person of the pharmacist is really irreplaceable. Delivery sales carry huge pitfalls, which, of course, may eventually be able to solve the technology, but I think that the time is not yet here, and that is why I really think that this is not the time. [[15.50 hours]] I, from my experience - and many colleagues practicing doctors can confirm this - that, of course, excellent things like an electronic recipe that helped us to bridge the time in a perfect way is a really huge step. At first, it aroused very negative emotions, I think, at the time completely unnecessary. But from experience, I know that it's just going to happen today, because we're going through the computer, that you're prescribing the patient a medicine and it's going to skip a line without you noticing, you click and you're going to run the recipe either in paper or electronic form that you didn't want to go out. And at that moment, it turns out that this person is completely irreplaceable to a pharmacist. It's just a common human error that can happen, but at that point it's so important what's really that conditio sine qua non in medicine that it should always be seen by two, let it be diagnostics, therapy and so on. It's clear here. And here it really happens that the pharmacist picks up something, picks up the phone, calls the doctor, and it happens very often that: Really, doctor, you wanted to prescribe this here? Or we're dealing with that and that's not how it might be or should be and so on. And there's really that person, the pharmacist, that's unemployable. Then in my own experience, there's one thing I can say. Look, it's not easy, the drug delivery. The moment the patient picks up the medicine himself personally, the responsibility is, of course, up to him. And it often happened to me at the same time when they started to put in the form of a patch, so the patients complained that the patch wasn't holding and so on, and then the simple question found out that the patch wasn't holding because the patient picked it up in the morning, left it in a closed personal vehicle all day, where the temperature was 60 degrees in the sun, and the preparation was basically impaired to its function, not only as if the emplaster, but also as a function, I would say, pharmaceutical. And there are a lot of hard-to-think problems that layman, even if he was an emeritus minister, can hardly imagine. And so on. Of course, today, when a distributor distributes drugs, they have to distribute them under very strict conditions. See, now the laymen have basically learned about this because of the pfizer vaccine that it needs minus 80 degrees and it's not easy to keep it, the whole temperature chain has to be documented. And I can't imagine that really, forgive me if some 20-year-old truck driver is delivering preparations to completely uneducated patients, and no one knows who's going to guarantee it, under what conditions - we know what's going on in the mail order, and so on. I think really, I'm sorry, the time hasn't ripened. She may mature over time when they deliver the drones and so on, but I don't think it's time for that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u19	Mr Patrik Nacher will now come forward, so far the last application for the general debate. Yes, and Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not gonna react anymore. We'll probably save it for the third reading. Let me just remind you, it's not an obligation, it's an option. If anyone wants to, they'll keep going to the pharmacy, who doesn't. And then we didn't say the examples of a whole bunch of patients taking the same medication for a few years. The same medications, that means that the visit to the doctor and the pharmacy is basically a formality. But I wanted to talk at this point about the second proposal and sign up for it. That's what Tomáš Vyerasel read, and say the context I was talking about at first reading, and that's the possibility of self-growning cannabis for my own use. I'll remind you that today, the person who self-creates cannabis at home for medical purposes from the point of view of his health, and then I'll be here in the third reading read those letters, such as multiple sclerosis and the like, so they're threatened with more prison sentences than for a violent crime. It seems to me that, at least from my point of view, it's unacceptable for me to look at this thing like that. We're in the middle of time because it's been discussed, so my colleague Vymazal and I set it up to be a real compromise in terms of the number of flowers, the amount of dry matter, the holding, the reporting obligation. This means that I feel that now nothing is stopping us from dealing with it, debating it, and at the same time approving it. Details at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u21	Now I have two factual points, so I would, Mr rapporteur, wait a moment. First, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u22	Thank you for the floor. I feel my duty to speak at this point. I'm very attached to what my colleague Janulík said. This is an absolutely crucial thing with which we have a wealth of experience, how to deal with drugs. The crucial thing that's here is that there's always a sentence that the patient can get it for a year. Dear Members, this is the biggest and rudest mistake that can be! You need to see this patient at some point, because the treatment needs to be adapted to how it's going, and of course the pharmacist needs to see him, because he knows him, and he knows how long he's taking it, what he's taking from other doctors, and there's that moment of correction. When someone gets to the pharmacy for it, it gets completely different than when it's being sent somewhere. And of course, sending drugs is threatened by the fact that we actually have strict rules on how to store the medicine. Something must be in the cold, something must be in the temperature of the day, or it's gonna go bad. And that's not what the shipping services are gonna do. And there's another flaw. The pharmacy that communicates with the patient and works will just be pushed out of the market, because this means that all the big companies will send to the kilometers, just no matter what it is, because then it will become the same business item as rohlík, who will bring everything to your apartment, but you can't talk to anyone about it and you have to accept it the way it is. It's a huge mistake, and I would very much warn us to accept such a thing, because it requires a great experience for both patients and doctors to deal with it, so that patients who can't see a pharmacist or a doctor and actually just take some pills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u23	Mr David Kasal is now prepared for a point of fact and Mr Rostislav Vyzula is still ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll follow up on my fellow Svoboda. That's exactly what was said. It's formal that he goes to the doctor after that or he doesn't go to the doctor, that it's pointless. I'll say it from another side. The electronization of recipes was an amazing thing, but the chronics that were there, and it wasn't a covid yet, so there exactly arose a problem at the time that it was already: We're just calling for the recipe, but it's just that the two-, three-month intervals for checking these people are important, because it's about whether the drugs will continue to be used or not, or if they won't change. And this is exactly what we've been talking about all along!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u25	Now, with priority rights as rapporteur, Mr Rostislav Vyzula and Mr Daniel Pawlas will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u26	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr President. For a short time, I won't comment much. There's been a lot of talk here about distance sales or delivery. I understand all the concerns here, but I would like it personally in certain cases, but we have to make sure it's really safe, because the confusion is dangerous. And if it works in ten European countries, then why couldn't it work in some cases in our country? But we'll talk about that later. I would just like to remind you that this amendment initially wanted to introduce two changes. The first change was to write an electronic prescription for opioids, because at this time it's particularly topical and patients would like it, and we can't expect this covid issue to be completely resolved by the end of the vaccination. So it was one thing. And the second thing was to sort of adjust the cannabis issues. And when they talk about cannabis, there's a lot of fuss right away, but it's not much fuss for nothing. That is true, it is an important matter, it needs to be addressed and it needs to be treated legally so that we do not become a country where this addictive substance is normally available. [[16.00 hours]] However, I took the liberty of making one more amendment, which I will later sign up for in a detailed debate. And I just want to make a brief comment on what's going on in it. First of all, it regulates the treatment system for cannabis for therapeutic use presented by the amendment, in particular as regards the conditions for its cultivation. We have to realize, and here it will certainly be a very rich discussion on the health committee that cannabis, which is used as a treatment agent, as a therapeutic substance, has a different percentage of tetrahydrocannabinol than so-called technical cannabis, which is not quite the right term, but it is simply used that it has a content of up to 0,2 to 0,3 % of THC. Healing cannabis has somewhere between 15 and 25 percent, and there is, of course, a difference in what kind of cannabis can reach people. And so it is also important here to point out that we wanted the treatment cannabis to be much more accessible to our patients, because at the moment we have one grower and producer, so the price is quite high and there is no other competition. And we wanted to... The petitioner wanted to allow other producers to be created by the amendment. There is a difference, a big difference, between the grower and the manufacturer, everyone should have their rights, it should be licensed and certified and who knows what else. So this needs to be distinguished and clarified, and that is the first point in my amendment. Secondly, it introduces the possibility of extracting cannabis under the conditions laid down by law. The point is, personally, I have a certain experience with this, because we serve therapeutic cannabis at the institute, but we serve it, as I said, essentially in two forms. The powder is poured, the crumbled leaves are poured into the capsule and the patient swallows it or inhales it in the device. Patients would appreciate it if we had another form of this medicinal cannabis, and this is an extract that the pharmacy would then put into the cones or drops. But making that extract isn't exactly easy. It cannot be produced by every pharmacy, as the Ministry of Health believes, only some pharmacies, and that is a certain disadvantage. Therefore, in this amendment, there would be a possibility that the manufacturer could already produce the extract as another form, and he would sell it to the pharmacy himself. In the third time, this amendment contains several amendments related to the authorisation to deal with addictive substances with length of driving or the issue of professional qualifications of persons dealing with addictive substances. Management to obtain certification, license for production and cultivation, is lengthy, currently takes about 120 days. I think it is unnecessary that the time that is 30 days in the amendment would be sufficient. Last but not least, there are several legislative technical proposals presented here, both in the section dealing with the law on addictive substances and in the law on medicines. I'll sign up for it later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u27	Thank you. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to add to the Professor that there is one more important thing about the price reduction. It's not just the number of companies that are going to be, but there's one other thing that we don't know about because it's being introduced here. It is a solution to a so-called stability study, and it is about the fact that every plant has a history, can be bred in a certain way and has a certain ratio of the substances that are in it. We have two options. Either we have our own, like we have our own pear, our apple trees, so we have our own plants, or then we can buy the stability study on the market, but in that case we have to pay our license fees. And if we did that, as some of the officials suggested, then there's no price reduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u29	Thank you. Mr Daniel Pawlas will speak in the debate, Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u30	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would also like to comment on this amendment to the Act on addictive substances, and I would like to comment on the delivery of medicines. It certainly has a future, there are countries where it already works, and we can't avoid progress. But there is one other aspect that I would like to mention, that not all pharmacies will be able to send these medicines to their patients, clients because we have approved here - I think last year or last year - a law on medicines, when we tried to break certain cartel agreements between drug producers, distributors and some chain pharmacies that abused their dominant position by providing them primarily with medicines, and to small pharmacies, independent pharmacies did not supply them with these medicines. And it is also a question of why this law, which we have adopted, is not enforced by the SÚKL because there are still cartel agreements. And if we look at what it might look like in practice, obviously if I'm a patient, I get a prescription, I call my pharmacist, and I tell you. I want some XY medicine written by my doctor, so my pharmacist says to me, "I'm afraid I don't have it in stock, I have to order it, you have to wait two days. Well, what am I gonna do? So, of course, maybe one day I'll wait, if it's not strictly acute, it won't be some kind of angina where I need that antibiotic right away or some other medicine. It happens to me twice, and then my colleague says to me, "But the chain pharmacy will release it to you immediately." Well, for the third time, I'm gonna go down there and bail on my pharmacist. So, first of all, we have to ask, how is it that there are no laws that have been passed in this Chamber of Deputies that do the SÚKL, that the law that has been adopted is not respected, that there are still cartel agreements between manufacturers, distributors and some chain pharmacies. And this amending law, I call it the sticker, is going to record them again, and they're going to abuse the dominant position on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u31	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Marek Novák, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be quite quick. I will comment on the proposal of my honored colleague Tomáš Vymazal, on the proposal he made together with my colleague Patrik Nacher. The way I'm going to express myself to him is that we've already talked about him more or less. We were actually talking about him in the bill submitted by the Pirate Party. Now we have received some kind of upgrade, where the quantity is reduced and so on. I'm not going to comment any further, I'm just going to ask you to remember what I've actually said here in relation to the legalization of cannabis itself. But I also want to comment on the so-called application rooms, which my colleague here gave us quite generously, but he didn't actually tell us what it was about. It's actually a drug application under surveillance. It is also important to note that the proposal does not mention what kind of care it is, whether it is an adictological care, who will serve, how it will serve, where these places will be, in what locations, in what areas. Well, maybe even ask the mayors if they want such application rooms in the village. [[16.10 hours]] And on the other hand, I would very much like to know what it will bring to us in terms of prevention itself. Will we have fewer users? Will it cost less money? Today, one user of so-called hard drugs costs us a million crowns a year. How much will increase the cost of one user as soon as we start using the application room? That's more or less all, and just a little something. We have heard that we can read the reasons for the other four proposals - I will read to you on one of the suggestions, probably from my head because I read it: We can grow a coca plant, for example in botanical gardens. Can you imagine coca plants in botanical gardens that are not guarded enough? I can already see the harvest air raids. Sorry, but I really can't support this, and I'm going to continue to comment on it at third reading. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u33	Thank you. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, either electronically or from the point of view. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. There is no interest, so I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I report to the detailed debate on the amendment under number 8101, which I discussed in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u35	Thank you. The next will be presented in a detailed debate by Mr Adam Vojtěch, and Mrs Věra Adámková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to the amendment, which is in the system under 7696, to the amendment under 8102, to Amendment 8114 and to Amendment 8115, and I refer to the reasoning in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u37	Thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková will speak in a detailed debate and Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Amendment 8168, which I presented in detail in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u39	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, Mr Tomáš Vymazal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u40	Thank you for the floor. In a detailed debate, I am signing up for the House of Press 8160, which I have said in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u41	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Vymazal, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby subscribe to a total of ten amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 8122, 8123, 8125, 8126, 8127, 8128, 8212, 8222 and 8223 and sorry, still 8224. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u43	Thank you, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? Yes, the rapporteur is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Just a brief summary. No motion for annulment or refusal has been made and 17 amendments have been tabled or applied for so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-005-009.u45	I thank the rapporteur and end the second reading of this proposal. The next item is
