ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 449/2001 Sb., on hunting, as amended /house print 954/ - second reading I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. [[Members are discussing near the speaker's desk.]] I'm gonna ask the Minister to go to the counter so he can bring the law. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room so we can continue. Mr. Secretary, is something preventing the introduction of the law? [[No.]] I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u2	Mr President, Madam, Members. I am very pleased that the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on Hunting as part of the first reading and subsequently in the various committees has been discussed, that is, in the agricultural and environmental committee of the Chamber of Deputies. I consider it essential to stress, in particular, the fact that the draft amendment is based on the need to adjust the numbers of cloven-hoofed game and thus reduce the damage to forest growth, especially on forested calumny shavings resulting from droughts and bark sludge, but also in agriculture. The last amendment to the Act on Hunting was adopted by Parliament in the form of an amendment to the amendment to the Forest Act in October 2019 and became effective 29. 11. 2019. The date of entry into force of the relevant part of the amendment relating to the hunting law was postponed by two years. This amendment brings great burdens for the state budget, chasing users and hunting authorities. The proposed amendment to the Hunting Act brings a more economically feasible way of achieving the goal of reducing the damage to animals -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u3	Minister, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues in the room again for more peace. I can't hear you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u4	Thank you. The submitted amendment to the Act on Hunting brings a more economically feasible way of achieving the objective of reducing the damage to animals and reducing the negative impact of game animals on the restoration of land in forests and reducing the damage to agriculture. This will be done by introducing a number of measures that will lead to a more effective reduction in the number of cloven-hoofed game stocks. This law establishes an electronic system of hunting record, which will simplify all administration and communication associated with the operation of hunting. The system will contain complete hunting planning, information about damage caused by animals. The system will include apps for mobile phones for recording and photodocumentation of hunted animals instead of expensive markers whose translation may pose hygienic and health risks. National hunting authorities will be able to evaluate the implementation of the hunting plan and, where appropriate, intervene in hunting farming from continuous electronic reports. 21 4. 2021 was held by the subcommittee of the Agricultural Committee on Hunting, Fisheries, Apiculture, Gardening and Breeding, where the amendment proposal was presented and a number of related topics were discussed at the same time. Subsequently, the 28th took place. 4. 2021 negotiations between the Agricultural Committee and the Committee on the Environment, in which the detailed discussion continued and several amendments were adopted, with which I largely agree, as they will contribute to the improvement of the Government's draft law. At the same time, I firmly believe that we will be able to discuss this government bill together by the end of the term of office of the current Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to ask you for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u5	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on the Environment. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 954/1 to 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and, at the same time, the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr David Pražák, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposals in the committees and of any possible amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u6	Good evening, Mr President, Minister, Lords of Ministers, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, fellow Members. As the Minister said in the previous word, the amendment to the Hunting Act was last discussed on committees, whether on the environment or on the agricultural committee, on 28 April. Amendments were tabled on both committees, and they were recommended by both committees to approve them in the text of the amendments adopted. In short, I would say that 17 amendments were tabled to the agricultural committee, to the environment 11. A total of about nine amendments were approved on both of them and moved here to the Chamber of Deputies, with the approval in the Committee on Agriculture of Mr Holomčík's amendment, where it is a record of damage, when the user has to write down the damage, then manage so as not to cause excessive damage to the forest ecosystem of animals. [[17.10 hours]] Another amendment related to integrity - to be supported by a copy, not a extract from the criminal record. Another amendment in the Committee on Agriculture was to strengthen the power of the forest guards. Another amendment was to bring the hunting law into line with the Animal Abuse Act. The last amendment in the agricultural committee was the legalization of archery. I'm referring to archery, not crossbow fire. The Committee on the Environment then approved a ban on the holding of foxes in captivity by President Balcarová, permission to hunt wounded game and colleagues of Zahradník, when the tooth was placed among the game. The other proposals of colleague Holomčík were more or less duplicated with the Committee on Agriculture, so they were also approved there. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Jarošová is the first to enter, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will mention here the law of hunting, which is at second reading and which is supposed to establish a balance in our landscape between the states of cloven-hoofed game and the state of forest vegetation, thereby eliminating damage to forests. Still, it should be remembered that deer and deer animals belong naturally to our forests, just like wild pigs, small mammals and various birds. All this is important for maintaining balance and it is clear that it must also eat something. The main thing, however, is to maintain an optimal numerical state so that it is not several times more than the landscape is able to support. The result is enormous damage to young trees, especially deciduous trees, and economic losses that go into billions. The hunting bill, which has worked for 19 years and has undergone several changes in that time, is not perfect. I have no idea whether this one will be perfect and whether all hunters and associations will be satisfied. Probably not, but the fact is, the new law has been promised to hunters for a long time, and it needs to be. A lot of provisions need to be changed, mainly because of the barking calamity, when the problem with the abundant animals has been fully opened. Another reason is the adoption of a pointless sticker in 2019, which would make hunting activities very difficult. Hunting must be seen as our cultural heritage and game is our national wealth, which we must preserve in the best possible condition for future generations. Fortunately, there are a lot of people here who feel that way, and nature and forests help to protect and maintain it. For many of them, it is a pleasure and a calling. We have beautiful forests and landscapes that we must rightly be proud of, and every crown spent on their restoration after the barking calamity is a well spent crown. But in order for the money not to go to waste completely, the balance between the cloven-hoofed animals and the crops must be maintained consistently. I firmly hope that this law will contribute to this. To this law, I have proposed a change that will facilitate the work of our hunters, specifically improving the conditions for the performance of hunting guards and hunters' economics. Now, let me introduce him to you. The current law on hunting includes a very strict assessment of the conditions of integrity for the performance of these functions, when it is based on a copy of the criminal record. In contrast to the extract, the copy also contains data about the smoothed crimes, which, even after many years, prevent the function of hunter. These are often less serious crimes committed in youth, such as disorderly conduct, which - although destroyed - still hinders the performance of these functions. This problem in the case of hunting guards has already been addressed by the Constitutional Court, which stated, among other things, that it is up to the legislators to assess the suitability of individual conditions for the execution of hunting guards and possibly change them. This problem was also highlighted by the Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček. Therefore, in this proposal, I demand that a copy be changed to an extract from the criminal record. This proposal should therefore remedy the practical problem and comply with both the hunters and the Constitutional Court, which drew attention to the problem and called for a change in legislation in this respect. That's why I decided to comply. Thank you for supporting my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Bendl in the general debate, Mrs Balcarová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister. I know we don't have much time, but I do have nine amendments that I would like to make and justify, so I will try to be at least as brief as possible so that we can go through the second reading successfully today. The minister said so here, the most important instigator of the need to change the hunting law is the situation associated with the crust, respectively with the drought and subsequently the bark, because the barkworm exposed problems with the abundant animals and the damage done by the animals actually to the marrow, showed us what is happening in the landscape, and also showed the situation where today the billion-dollar damage caused by the barkworm must be paid. Last year, the state budget financed about CZK 7 billion in the drought and bark management situation, and now we are in a situation where the oversized animals most of what we plant in the hope that our children and future generations will see new forests are successfully devoured by the oversized animals, especially the cloven-hoofed ones. Amendments in general, which we have consulted with a number of professionals in the field of hunting, nature conservation, with farmers who care for the forest and work long-term as foresters, have brought together at least some fundamental changes that we think should be reflected in the law on hunting. Together with my colleagues Radek Holomčík, Vlastimil Válek and Jana Krutáková, we have put together a number of amendments that I would now make in general in the general debate, and then only in numbers or reading and signing up for House documents in detail in the debate. In the House document, Amendment 8522, it is merely minor amendments to the provisions on the recovery procedure, which will correct illogical errors in the current text. There is no reason not to pay damage to fenced gardens, protected trees, trees or forest fences, if the animals penetrate protection. I think it is necessary for hunting in this regard to ensure that when the gardens are fenced, then the damage done must be paid. In document 8523, it is an amendment that says: "The owner or hoard of hunting grounds must have the right to enter hunting farming effectively in view of more effective elimination of damage. " The amendment addresses this long-term deficit by introducing the right of owners who cannot create their own chase, as well as those who are really farming in the landscape, to participate, under specified conditions, in their own efforts to protect their land from the damage of animals. I mean, if I'm talking about the terms and conditions, of course, this guy has to have a gun license, appropriate insurance, and all rights to participate in the hunt. They must comply with the rules. Due to the problem of a declining number of active hunters, where a number of hunters have or will have difficulty in fulfilling the hunting plan, the participation of owners or hunters can also be perceived as helping the hunters to implement the hunting plan. At the same time, the owner or hoarder who makes use of this right waives the possibility to apply and enforce damages from the user. To put it simply, we want to allow those who possess all the rights to protect their property from the damage caused by the oversized animals, but then, of course, thereby waive the right to apply the damage to the respective association, as they have the chance to deal with the situation in accordance with the relevant approved documents in the given chasing. [[17.20 hours]] Another amendment, which we are proposing under number 8524, concerns the fact that chasings held by an organisation managing the property of the State should not be rented for hunting purposes - in a completely analogy with the forest law banning the lease of forests for the purpose of forest management. Owner, state, declares interest in the balanced condition of cloven-hoofed game and forest, see for example National Forestry Programme II, Principles of Forestry Policy, Strategy for the Development of Forests of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, for the period from 1 September 2019 to 31. 12. 2024. The interest of the tenant is, however, in maximizing the satisfaction of his needs, thereby hunting and hunting, as well as the interest of the tenant of the forest is maximizing the profit from the sale of wood. Rent of state chasing also brings to this relationship the user's demand for chasing to evaluate the funds invested in the rental of hunting and hunting. This results in preference to high levels of cloven-hoofed game, regardless of the damage that these animals do to forest ecosystems. Experience has shown that in practice this contradiction cannot be eliminated by the terms of the lease agreement. The immediate influence of the forest manager on the comprehensive management of game is essential for the desirable reduction of damage caused by animals as conditions for restoring the stability of forests. On this principle stands the so-called Saxon model, which is declared an inspiration for the current novel. It is therefore necessary to ban the lease of state chasings, with the conclusion of current contracts and new ones not being concluded. The high rent resulting from the rental competition also limits the possibility of involving wider strata of local hunters, thereby contributing to the unwanted loss of their number. Those interested in the exercise of hunting in state hunting could use the system of affordable and affordable allowances inspired by the Saxon model. The Saxon model also includes emphasis on the social side of hunting with a friendly atmosphere, respect for traditions, support for cynology, care for hunting infrastructure and so on. Amendment 8166, its brief reasoning: minor adjustments to the provisions on the recovery procedure will correct the illogical errors of the current text. There is no reason not to pay any damage to fenced gardens, protected trees, trees or forest fences of game. Amendment 8165: the proposal concerns the removal of protected and endangered animal species from the list of game. It is appropriate to remove from the game list species that cannot be hunted, in particular protected species, and to supplement the game list with invasive species. The removal of protected species from the game list is also logical because of obligations such as feeding, which current legislation also requires for species such as wolf, feature, grouse, hawk, sloe or bear. However, the pursuit of this activity is counterproductive for the viability of protected species stocks. There is no reason to divide game into species that can be hunted and species protected that cannot be hunted. Comparison of § 3 (b) 1 - the authorities of the state administration of hunting for these species do not take any support measures, they do not treat them as animals. Nor is it appropriate, or the current practice does not do so, for protected species of animals to interfere with their populations in accordance with § 3 para. 1, which says: "Maintenance of the natural quality of the game gene pool, targeted increase in game breeding quality and adjustment of game status to optimal condition." Where necessary, catches of protected species may be dealt with on the basis of a derogation or a derogation, even if they are not in the category of game - non-animal hunting is covered by § 42 para. In the present case, the Commission considers that the measure in question does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 114/1992 Coll. It can be assumed that the removal of protected species from the game list will lead to a reduction in their illegal hunting. From the list of game, now § 2 letter d), the critically endangered steppe skunk is released and then the Pole the big and Polack the guild. The number of Poles and Poles in Europe is plummeting. The great Pole was even included on the list of species threatened by extinction worldwide. The steppe is a very rare species in the Czech Republic. It is indefensible for these species to be included in the list of game that can be managed by hunting in the Czech Republic. The problem of compensation for damage caused by protected animal species is addressed by Act No. 115/2000 Coll., on the granting of compensation for damage caused by selected specially protected animals. On the contrary, they are also included in the list of animals introduced or, where appropriate, in nature, unwanted species of animals in order to be normally hunted. It is laid down that only hunters and hunters may fish for these species. Amendment 8164: chasing size. We propose a reduction in the minimum range of chasing for 50 hectares, for own chasing 250 hectares, for community chasing 500 hectares. Short justification: the reduction of the minimum size for own chasing to 250 hectares reflects the important ownership changes that occurred in the company after 1989. Historically, the area was gradually changing. Since 1849 the chase had a minimum of 115 hectares, after 1941 a minimum of 150 hectares was foreseen for its own chase and 200 hectares after 1947. A major break occurred after 1948, when private land was gradually expropriated, and the current area of 500 hectares was introduced only by Law No. 23 of 1962, which practically wiped out the possibility of different dimensions in the chasing of their own and community. After 1989 private ownership was no longer taken into account in the creation of self-hunting and they must also have the same range of 500 hectares. The reduction in the acreage for self-hunting respects the property changes that are ongoing and allows hunting to reflect the consolidation of land that supports complex land changes. This relatively small change would enable the direct exercise of the right of hunting to those owners who are actively interested in the management of the landscape and are, as a rule, the most affected in their management of forest and agricultural land by the damage of emerging animals. The creation of even a smaller number of new own chasings would allow better dealing with the restoration of forest crops destroyed by the effects of current climate change and the damage caused by game on agricultural parcels. The reduction of the minimum size for self-hunting does not interfere with community chasing, which would continue to have the same minimum size of 500 hectares. Amendment 8161: planning of hunting according to damage and damage to forests, variant without farming areas. The proposal for an amendment releases the key provisions approved for the last amendment of the Act in the autumn of last year from the principles of keeping § 3, that the numbers of game must be such as to avoid disproportionate damage to forest ecosystems. It also disturbs the so-called standardized game states and thus any upper limit on the number of game states. The obligation to maintain game states in such a way as to avoid excessive damage should be formulated in Section 3, albeit without penalty, in the principles of breeding, not in Section 36, the hunting plan, on the one hand, because of the logical construction of the law, where the hunting plan should meet the limits of the principles of breeding, and, on the other hand, to avoid confusion in the application of the state administration on the interpretation of the law during possible judicial games. The intervention provision would concern only non-compliance with minimum game stocks and non-compliance with the hunting plan. The proposal for an amendment requires the establishment of a hunting plan only for those species of cloven-hoofed game for which minimum conditions are laid down. This allows the user in the chasing to circumvent the statutory obligations. In fact, an animal that does not have a minimum condition, such as a deer, can participate in much of the damage. The amendment addresses this deficit with the obligation to establish a hunting plan for all species of cloven-hoofed game that occur in hunting. [[17.30 hours]] Amendment 8422, which concerns orchards, where the word "fenced" is added and in order to allow this wording to limit considerable damage to fruit cultivation, the possibility of including game in orchards which are not fenced without the need for bureaucratic authorisation of hunting on non-hunting land. Here I would like to point out that this is a proposal of the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity, which the Ministry of Agriculture has rejected here, but you who move among the setters who farm on larger lands, so you know that there are great damages, and you may not know that it is not possible to include such sets in the hunts, although often these sets work de facto as a feedground, that is, luring animals with fruit and the like, and the damage is then relatively large. I think we have a chance to prevent this simple amendment. And the last amendment under number 8421 concerns the area of game farming, because it is one of a number of possibilities to gain control of animals whose territory is much larger than the size of the game. [[how]] I remind you that one of the arguments why you can't or why someone doesn't want to reduce the size of the chase is that some animals have bigger territories. However, such a deer European territory has many times the size of the 500-hectare chase, more than thousands of hectares, and therefore the "hunting area" as a term and work with it would certainly help regulate the oversized game. I therefore propose this proposal, which was proposed by the Czech Moravian hunting unity in the commentary procedure. This is why I have justified all the amendments that I or my colleagues are proposing. I am convinced that if we go the way of greater cooperation between farmers in the woods and agriculture in general, with hunters, we will find a better balance, which belongs in the forests and our nature, and we will give a better chance to people who work hard in agriculture or forestry, so that they can manage better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u11	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, with a factual remark, Mr Zdeněk Podal is here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, the SPD will approve the draft amendment to the Hunting Act as approved or proposed by the Agricultural Committee. The amendment is essentially a compromise between the wishes of owners who demand to strengthen ownership and the hunters who want to preserve the current situation. We have one reservation, and that's bow fire. We're worried it won't be the best thing for animals and wounded animals that it might go off outside of its own shooting. We are aware of the overgrowth of the cloven-hoofed game, which goes against the interest of all of us to restore the forests after the barking calamari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u13	Thank you and Mrs Dana Balcarová will speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present my three amendments. Shortly because they're identical to the ones I've been remodeling as part of an invasion novel. So I'm just going to say that the first concerns mining, where in the amendment I demand a ban on the minting of foxes and badgers at the time of laying down and caring for cubs, because in general at this time, in the 21st century, it is considered to be a unnecessarily tormenting practice that treats those foxes in a very brutal way. The second amendment concerns hunting for injuries to game, where it is necessary to allow hunting for injured or sick game even outside the hunting period to prevent its suffering. And the third amendment concerns the holding of foxes in captivity for the purpose of training dogs. This is due to the fact that the conditions under which foxes are held in captivity are not modified in no way, and this needs to be corrected so that this is given by decree so that foxes do not suffer unnecessarily if they are already held in captivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u15	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Jan Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u16	Thank you. I would like to introduce House document 8496 here. This is the protection of our game from introduced species and I would like to add a deer sika, because deer sika really threatens the gene pool of our deer European. I suppose there's no doubt about it. I believe that the situation is very serious, and so I intercede here so that it does not become a deer and do not make an even bigger cuckold than it is. So please support this amendment, which I will then apply to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u17	Thank you and Mr Petr Pávek will speak last in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I, under 8191, am making an amendment which introduces both hunting weapons and hunting bows. I thought that we had the debate both on committees and, of course, it was also discussed with the ministries concerned, either agriculture or the environment. There were no objections. The Committee on Agriculture approved this amendment. Only now in a note here to one of the previous SPD speakers that it bothers them, and I know that in the media space there are concerns about whether hunting using a bow and arrow does not cause greater suffering to animals. Well, the opposite is true. There are a number of professional studies to do this, even environmental organisations like DuhA claim it, and it explicitly supports it, because it needs to be realized how this development works. If you don't shoot, if you don't hit the animals directly on the ball chamber, I mean with a normally fired weapon right now, then the bullet is much more devastating, more painful, and it can happen that the animal that then has the damaged tissue, the deformed tissue, is able to move away from that place quite far away, right, that's tracking then through the dogs. Sometimes it takes miles, it takes hours, sometimes we don't even find animals, and very often they suffer from it. Whereas when using the hunting arrow, and especially the tip, it occurs - it is a stabbing pleasure, which immediately opens up all blood vessels, veins and arteries, even if the animal is not hit directly on the chamber, there is an immediate drop in blood pressure and thus the animal stops actually feeling. [[17.40 hours]] The second thing that is very important about this type of hunting is that in order to even shoot the animals out of the bow, you have to approach it or you have to let it reach you in order at 30 meters. This rules out the vast majority of current hunters, and in general, we have lost the ability to approach animals at that distance, and we need to be able to develop this ability eventually again. Therefore, shooting from the bow or hunting by bow and arrow is subject to very strict regulation. It requires about one year's training, then it requires testing. The bow and each arrow must be clearly marked with the hunting ticket number or license to be authorized, so there can be no confusion, which very often happens in the shooting of a firearm. Then I caught the fear of poaching. That's an absurd notion, because poachers are motivated by greed. They don't care about the exercise of hunting, they don't have any ethics in them. They're just thieves who go to steal venison, they're usually very well organized. They use vans or cars to do this, and very often they shoot animals from the car, which allows today firearms equipped with optics, night vision, laser targeting, and so on. The crossbow would still be considered, but the bow and arrow wouldn't. The bow and arrow not, with the bow and arrow cannot be shot from the car, it is not possible to shoot on the march, as I say, it is not possible to shoot at a great distance. It's really extreme discipline. The great advantage of this bow and arrow hunting is the possibility of deploying such hunters who exercise fitness and are authorized, for example in urban and suburban agglomerations, where more and more often we encounter the penetration of wild game, mostly black game, but also others into suburban areas, and there, of course, organizing the catch of such game with a firearm is very complicated because of the risk of collateral damage, or collateral damage. It must be ensured that the entire area is cleared out, cleared out, because there will be someone shooting from the rifle. Plus, it causes unwanted reactions, because shooting from a rifle is a shooting, which means people hear gunshots in the housing estate, they call the police, it just has a whole series of side effects that aren't desirable. While if these hunters, who are able to rule by bow and arrow, were called, are able to quietly remove the animals in a very targeted manner. So, of course, I am prepared for further discussions on this matter. I believe that maybe this is a bit of an exotic bill for us. In fact, in 24 countries of the European Union, hunting with a bow is legal, long-term legal. Hunting with a bow and arrow all over the world, it's not a theme. Basically, the Czech Republic makes an exception and, in my opinion, it is a great pity. So I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate under number 8191. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u19	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u20	Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, colleagues. I was the guy who just asked about the cold gun hunt. If I understand correctly, is the crossbow forbidden, my colleague, through Mr President? Is he just a bow? That's what I wanted to hear, 'cause I can put optics on the crossbow today, I can put infrared sights, and it would be the same thing as the rifle. I'll have one more question. One of the greatest damage to us is caused by black animals, and I can't imagine shelling black game, especially if it's still glued with resin, that I could shoot it through the arrow. Maybe I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u21	Thank you, and we've exhausted the applications to... A point of fact, Mr Pávek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u22	Just a very short answer, so I don't hold up. It's not like that. The arrow, unlike the ball, is able to penetrate virtually any layer and material. The simplest evidence is the primitive hunts in Africa, for example, when they were still hunting fatskins, so the natives with a simple arrow and bow managed to hunt the fatskin, while the white man invented Magnum to do the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and if no one else reports from the post - Madame - is she reporting? No, that's the end of the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? There is no interest and I am opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Monika Jarošová will be the first to speak, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u24	I hereby subscribe to my amendment under number 8176, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u25	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl will be next, Mrs Dana Balcarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u26	Thank you. I have justified all the amendments in the general debate, therefore, on behalf of my colleagues, Holomčík, Vlastimil Válek, Jana Krutáková, I am reporting on Amendment 8522, 8523 and 8524 and on behalf of my 8166, 8165, 8164, 8161, 8422 and 8421. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u27	Thank you. Next, Mrs Dana Balcarová will appear and Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u28	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the amendments that I raised in the general debate, and it is Amendment 8471 - minting foxes, 8474 - hunting wounded game and 8476 - holding foxes in captivity for the purpose of training dogs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u29	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Petr Pávek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u30	Thank you. As I have announced, I would like to stand up for the deer of Europe against the deer of Siku and apply to House document 8496.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u31	And Mr Petr Pávek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u32	Thank you. So I just want to sign up for my Amendment 8191, which includes a hunting bow among hunting weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-006-013.u33	This has exhausted all those entered into the detailed debate, and I am ending the detailed debate. I see that there is no interest in the final words, so I am ending second reading of this proposal. We have 17.48, at 18.00 we have fixed voting points, and at this point we can open one more point. That's a point number.
