ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 461/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended by Act No. 584/2020 Coll. The House Press 1134/ - Shortened Act The secretary of finance is already at the speaker's desk. I give her my word, and please state the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify very briefly the proposal for an amendment to the Autumn Compensation Bonus Act, which aims to allow the use of this bonus by persons in decline. The claim of these persons is expressly excluded by law today, as the compensatory bonus is one of the forms of so-called public support, the provision of which must be governed by European law. In the context of the aids responding to the current epidemic, the European Commission has adopted a so-called temporary framework according to which the beneficiary of the aid cannot be a person who is in bankruptcy no later than 31 December 2019. This request was repeated by the European Commission in the course of negotiations last year, which led to the fact that it was also reflected in the Compensation Bonus Act. It was under the so-called notification procedure because, as you know, this condition was not in the spring compensation bonus. There was also an interest in not endangering the subsequent process of European notification. We were worried that we would not have a problem with the notification of the law as a whole in the autumn bonus, which could lead to possible sanctions against the Czech Republic, but could also threaten the payment of the bonus to all entities. However, from the outset, I considered the exclusion of the right to a compensatory bonus for persons in bankruptcy to be unfortunate and disproportionately severe, especially in relation to those in debt. These people did not receive these forms of assistance, although their activities were also immediately prohibited or restricted by state measures. All the while, the Ministry of Finance has been trying to convince the European Commission since last year, when we first recorded the problem, to enable the compensatory bonus to be paid to people in decline. During January, a solution was finally found where the granting of a bonus to persons in bankruptcy would be implemented outside the said temporary framework in the form of public aid under the so-called de minimis scheme only for these people. The European Commission has given its preliminary informal consent to this solution, which is why we have immediately processed and submitted this amendment in order to abolish the exclusion of persons in bankruptcy. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the day following the date of publication, but we propose that the newly granted compensation bonus can also be applied retroactively for past bonus periods within a period of two months from the date of application of the Act. With regard to the impact of this amendment, we estimate the negative impact of about CZK 0.1 billion at the level of public budgets, of which at the level of budgets of municipalities and regions in the order of tens of millions. For all these reasons, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House document 1134/1. I will ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Kamal Farhan, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In connection with the emergence and spread of COVID-19 caused by coronavirus, we are also in an emergency condition that has been repeatedly prolonged. In connection with the impact of the ban on the reduction of business caused by the epidemic situation, the government of the Czech Republic and the individual departments joined the various measures to provide the necessary support to economic operators in the spring of 2020. [[how]] It concerns three groups of people. The first group are self-employed persons or small-scale associates with r. o. Then it is the second group, these are entrepreneurs who were not directly restricted, but whose activities are almost entirely linked to the first group, and are therefore either its suppliers or they carry out their activities in foreign establishments or other premises that have been closed. The third group shall be persons engaged in work on the basis of an out-of-work agreement. One of the statutory conditions for entitlement to compensation bonus under Act No. 461/2020 Coll. is that pursuant to § 5 para. This bonus cannot be granted to a person who was bankrupt in the bonus period on the basis of a court decision. Within the framework of the present amendment of the Act, it is therefore proposed to repeal the rule that the person who was in bankruptcy during the bonus period is not entitled to the compensatory bonus. So that's probably the main thing about the fact that most of this has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State. Now, allow me to present to you the resolution of the Budget Committee of 20 January 2021 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 461/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended by Act No. 584/2020 Coll., House Document 1134. It's being discussed in a state of legislative emergency. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Kouba, my report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies hold a general debate on the bill; [[tho]] II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations no later than 18 hours on 22 January 2021; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that, with a government bill amending Act No. 461/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in connection with the prohibition or restriction of business activity in connection with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, as amended by Act No. 584/2020 Coll., House Document 1134, gave its consent as amended by the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; V. empowers me to introduce this resolution to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and (b) in cooperation with the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies office to carry out appropriate legislative technical adaptations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u5	Thank you. And we will now decide whether we will lead the general debate on this point. Once again, I have called in colleagues from the lobby, and I think there are enough of us to vote. We are voting whether we will hold a general debate in the context of a short hearing on this bill. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of having a debate? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 98 Members registered. For 88, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. So I am opening up a debate on this point. I have an application here. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will be the first to sign up with the SPD's position. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you briefly to the SPD's position. Our SPD MEP welcomes and supports the proposed amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus, which grants this form of compensation to businessmen, including back to citizens who are in court of bankruptcy or in personal insolvency proceedings. After all, we have asked for this change before, because the current situation was absolutely unfair to inhumane. In this context, it is important to stress that the refusal of the European Commission, or the meaningless rules of the European Union and the sad fact of their superiority with the Czech legal standards, prevented these traders from receiving this support long ago. Sadly, we can no longer help Czech citizens who urgently need this, about themselves, about their will, and now. At the same time, let us not forget that there are still numerous groups of our businessmen who have not received any compensation to this day, even though government emergency measures have also affected their business. These are, for example, tradesmen for classic partial, albeit short-term employment, or companions of more than two-membered eseros. That is why today we will support all amendments that increase and extend support to groups of entrepreneurs who have not yet been entitled to it. We believe that they too will receive justice and we will continue to fight for them in the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u7	Thank you. Next, Mr Feranec is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly introduce you to the amendment by my colleague Jan Volný to this law. He does not directly relate to insolvency, but concerns another matter, namely the condition when he becomes entitled to the compensation bonus under the law that we have adopted. It arises when a decision has been issued by a state authority, a decision which has prohibited or has, in substance, reduced the activity. This amendment allows a claim to be made even if it was issued by another public authority or by a person appointed by it. I'll explain what's going on. It is classic, for example, the activity of hairdressers and similar in social services facilities in hospitals. When the management of the facility banned visits, it was not a decision of the state authority, then even these traders providing services in the facility could be entitled, of course, to meet the other conditions of this Act on compensation bonus. I will then sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And next in the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this delicate problem has been resolved. Since December, we have been looking for a legislative way with the Ministry of Finance to enable people to pay compensation bonus in insolvency, because the injustice is really huge. People who are trying to pay off their liabilities work, do business, and just because they have a debt in the past that they didn't necessarily have to pay - I know the case of a man in insolvency who pays off his wife's debts, and similar cases are also - so just because they have a commitment from the past that they are trying to repay would lose the state support that is very unfair to all other entrepreneurs who are doing the same business as they are. I'm glad it did. We have appealed many times to the Ministry of Finance for this, and I was even personally with the Minister to try and find a solution, and thank you for being able to negotiate this. I know that my colleague, Lukáš Kolářík, has been very intense about this, and perhaps we have contributed to seeing the seriousness of this issue. In addition to this, I would like to make a number of amendments, which we have prepared together with my colleague Tomáš Martínek and my colleague Věra Kovářová. This concerns problems that are still not solved in the field of compensation bonus. We want the negotiators who have released, for example, the authorities to qualify for a compensation bonus because there is clearly a secondary hit. But it is generally true that there has been an unfortunate situation - and indeed this has been mentioned by a fellow Feranec, who deals with part of the issue - where we have a situation where those who are banned from official authority receive money, and those who are forbidden because of the factual situation do not receive money. That's what we're trying to fix for part of the brokers. Furthermore, we want to expand the support for second-hand entrepreneurs so that the limit is not so strict: 80 per cent of the second-second hit, but 50 per cent is enough. We see as a huge problem that there are no forgiving contributions, not even the self-employed who receive a compensation bonus. For this reason, because we have not been able to negotiate a solution that would allow the contributions to be forgiven only for those who receive a compensatory bonus, for this reason we propose an increase in the compensation bonus of CZK 180 per day, which compensates for the contributions. It's just, unfortunately, scratching your right hand behind your left ear, but from the point of view of these people, the money is important that they would get more money, and then they would pay the 5,000 state. Of course, a better solution would be if they did not have to pay the contributions, but this trip after consultation with the Ministry of Finance was not feasible and therefore we propose a simple increase. Indeed, in order to receive a 15,000 bonus from which one will pay 5,000, it doesn't seem logical at all. In the spring, the support was really one third higher. Then, together, we are discussing another delicate subject, and that is the issue of doctors who received a summons order, and now they are back to whether or not they will be taxed. We propose, within the framework of this law, the exemption of these income from taxes and taxes. We think the moment the state orders someone to work, they're not supposed to tax it. These people can't choose whether to get in or not. So we're dealing with this issue, which has been quite visible lately. We think it is perfectly logical for these revenues to be exempt, especially at a time when they are really low in terms of hourly rates. [[9.30 hours]] The last amendment concerns an extremely small group that feels extremely great injustice, and it is the foster partners of the negotiators. Foster members of the CFI now receive a compensatory bonus if they were a self-employed person who could not carry out their activities. I am glad that we managed to push through in the spring and that the Ministry of Finance took this principle as its own. However, as part of the current text of the Compensation Bonus Act, the foster parents have fallen out, although they may not have any job-time, but their foster life counts as employment, which we consider illogical, so we are trying to fix it. This is going to be about a really small number of people, but we think there's a great deal of injustice. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister if she could tell the solution of the Ministry of Finance for the taxi driver here on the microphone. Because if I'm not mistaken, one of the many holes in the system has been repaired, where taxi drivers, who often have a drop in sales somewhere between 50 and 80 percent, did not receive any compensatory bonus. And as far as I know, the Treasury has found a solution, and I'd just like to ask if it's possible to introduce him here on the microphone so the hits can meet him and know how they can proceed. Because if it's just the knowledge of those who know or who have connections to professional organizations, and those ordinary cab drivers don't know, that would be a shame. Then I'll ask the secretary if she can publish how it's supposed to go. Anyway, I'm sure we'll support the law, and we're glad it's here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u11	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. From today's working day, Minister Blatný apologizes for urgent work reasons. Madame Kovářová, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, let me give the STAN's opinion on this proposal. We generally welcome the introduction of a compensatory bonus, which was a means of helping a number of people who were affected by the Coronavirus crisis. I think that over the course of those few months, groups of people have spread that could have touched the bonus. And although sometimes the debate was very lively, sometimes the agreement insisted on which groups would be included in the compensation bonus, I think it turned out quite well in the end. And that is why we welcome the fact that they will be able to receive a compensation bonus for people in decline. Here I agree with what is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the exclusion of these very persons from the creation of the right to compensation bonus appears to be disproportionately harsh. I think the reason is clear: the current situation is so complex and they, as people in decline, have a much more complex situation. So, of course, we are very happy to support this amendment and welcome it. Let me also present, after all, an amendment concerning municipalities and regions. Last year it was clear that the compensatory bonus would also fall on the budgets of municipalities and regions as provided for. The Ministry of Finance's explanation was that there was no other structure. Finally, after long discussions, the municipalities managed to ensure that this revenue gap was compensated directly by law. Although not for the regions, there were other agreements that would compensate for their income losses. The year met with the year, the compensation bonus continues, but the one-off compensation for the regions and municipalities was really only for 2020. Therefore, given the continuation of the compensatory bonus, we would like to extend the compensation for the municipalities and this time also for the regions. Last year, the municipalities received a slightly higher income loss than the actual income loss based on estimates. Therefore, we propose that a one-off non-refundable contribution from the state budget be introduced for both municipalities and regions, but not according to the estimated outage for the entire compensatory bonus, but depending on how much has actually been paid. And it would be based on the population again. This means that after each bonus period, after the end of two months, people can apply for a compensatory bonus, which means that after two months, it would be obvious what income outages will be. Within three months, it would be possible to determine exactly what the real blackouts were, and these could then be paid to the regions and municipalities after the end of each compensatory period. I think that if the agreement was last year, I think that the agreement could still be this year and with the advantage that real blackouts would be paid off to municipalities and regions, and that would not have overpaid the municipalities as it was last year. So please consider the support of this proposal, which I submit together with my colleague Ferjenčík. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u13	Thank you and I will ask Mr Jurečka for a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u14	Good morning. Thank you, Mr President, Madam Secretary, we have such a nice situation here today that there are three cabinet ministers, but no ministers. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I must say, on the one hand, I am glad that this press has arrived in the Chamber of Deputies. I am sorry that it took so long because, for example, the situation of tradesmen who do not receive a compensatory bonus because they are in the debt process, so I confess, I criticised this situation here and did not understand why the government did not do it sooner, even if it were to go into some conflict with the European Commission. I think it would always be explained in retrospect. But thank pánbůh it's here now that the help will change here. But there are still white spots on the help map. I was talking about it here yesterday when we were discussing an extension of the emergency. I drew attention to a relatively wide group of businessmen who do not have their own establishment. There is indeed a situation where - as some people write to the Prime Minister that they are overcompensated - here I might ask if the Prime Minister would forward us the stories of those people who tell him that they have enough money. I'm very happy to send him stories, and I have hundreds of them, those people who have nothing at all. They don't have a crown, and the state says: You must take away minimum social and health! We shut you down, we won't give you anything, but send 5,000 each month! Well, that's completely absurd! So please, nicely, I have prepared two amendments here. One concerns precisely dealing with the situation of businessmen without their own establishment. They are trades, sectors across the spectrum, from such trades as photographers who have focused on photographing weddings and social events, which are logically linked to the fact that people can gather, that restaurants are open and so on. [[9.40 hours]] I got a call yesterday from a lady describing a story from their family, and I have to say here, even the absurd behavior of officials at the tax office. And I'm gonna ask the secretary if she can tell these people that they have at least a dose of empathy and that the photographer who comes in and tries to claim a bonus and doesn't have his own place of business, because why would the photographer need it when he's taking pictures in the field so they don't tell this guy that he can take pictures of sports matches - I quote exactly. That's what the clerk at the financial office tells a photographer who can't take pictures of a wedding and another social event, so he sends him to a sports game that doesn't run either. Well, that's just something that's driving these people crazy, and they're in extremely difficult situations, and they still feel a lot of arrogance and actually a mockery from the officials right in their face. So, please, let's consider the aid so that the compensation can also be used for the businessman without an establishment. And then here's my second proposal, and it's about increasing the compensation bonus. It is a repeated topic again, and it concerns the fact that last year in the spring part of the pandemic there was support for a compensation bonus of 15 000, but no contributions were made. Today we have the same support, 15 000, the levies are paid and the net is about CZK 10,000. I would like to see any member of the government, but also any of us Members, how, with the 10,000 he would bring home, he could cover electricity payments, gas, all these advances, and maybe he still had a partner, partner, husband, wife, two children at home, and how he would pay the household's expenses. I'd really like to see that. And these people have been in that situation for over three months. So please, let's also increase the amount of compensation bonus to the CZK 20,000, as I suggest, to be adequate for the assistance that took place in the first wave. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u15	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate during the second reading. I see no one, I end the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Madam Secretary is interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond briefly to my previous speakers. With no one, never, and finally I'm glad that everyone here supported it or expressed themselves in this way, we were never in conflict that people in decline, in insolvency should receive a compensatory bonus. But I explained it that way: and in the spring they got him, too. We put it into the first law of spring - I will say spring and autumn compensation bonus - and we had a problem with notification. In May a temporary framework was issued and I had to choose from two evils - please don't take me literally at my word - the smaller one, that means not endangering the compensatory bonus for everyone, not endangering the possible notification process and from that the following sanctions and act. So we didn't put it into the autumn competence bonus, and I got hundreds of different messages, and we kept acting, acting, acting, and doing it. I will not repeat that again, and I am glad that you are all confirming that there was no conflict between us and that we have actually achieved that we have preliminary approval today. And watch out, there's one more important thing I want to say. The preliminary approval - I believe the official will come in a short time - means that this condition can be released in all subsidy programs, because it is not just a compensatory bonus, where it was of course the hardest, because there are people who are in debt, repay, government restrictions have limited them as a result of the pandemic business and they have nothing to repay. So these are all relevant reasons, and what we have achieved as the Ministry of Finance can be reflected in all of my government colleagues' subsidy programs, and they do not have to put this condition there. So I think it's also important to say here, and it's very fundamental. I'd be responding here to some specific questions that fell. The compensation bonus is no longer designed, the autumn as well as the spring, as well as the general measure, when almost everyone got it - almost all of the self-employed, then we extended it to the Eserócek executives, the negotiator, all of it, you remember the genesis, but it was already designed as restrictive measures were taking place, and we did not know how long it would last, what extent it would be at the time when it was decided in October. It is based on a specific ban on government resolutions, or on bound disciplines that are linked to those prohibited and have a decline in income of at least 80 per cent. Of course, those who have a directly prohibited activity or a closed establishment must have more than 50 per cent of their income from this business. That's what the structure's built on. We are uniting the methodology together with the Directorate-General for Finance. Yesterday I informed here when we discussed the emergency situation that my deputy had dealt with all the representatives of the financial authorities, had them all on a video conference call and dealt with them by taxi drivers, insolvencys, because, of course, it is very important that the information be brought to the attention of specific officials who apply them in practice. As far as establishments are concerned, of course, when the premises are closed, limited, there is nothing to discuss. If someone was attached to the establishment, we said a classic example of a laundromat with at least 80 percent of income, there's nothing to talk about again, they'll get a compensatory bonus. And then there are all these different cases where the businessman - like the photographer, I was telling President Jurečka now to send me this case, that I will personally deal with it, send it to me by e-mail, and I will really deal with it - but I said here yesterday that a lot of good work is being done on the financial administration, see these compensatory bonuses, see the route of tens and hundreds of officials etc. So let's not put them all in the same bag, but if that's the kind of attitude that was arrogant, then believe me, I'm gonna worry about it, too. Now let's go back. There is essential - the tax administrator is concerned with whether he really had limited revenue as a result of the government resolution, so it is not completely black and white, and believe that even the photographer can achieve support if he photographed, I don't know, weddings or these events, some seminars etc., and, of course, from the nature of the matter, this activity cannot be realized today. So it's not as black and white as said here. Medici. The medics were solved by the fact that I forgave the tax by the general pardon. What you are proposing, Mr Ferjenčík, is, of course, a concern for us, but that is not possible. Refund - Because it's a replacement. If we put the refunds in the Income Tax Act and free them, then the compensation is not just those medical professionals who certainly deserve it with the few crowns they get so that they don't tax them or pay the contributions from them, there's no doubt about it. But when you say "A," you have to say "B," it's often not that simple. Unlike my government colleagues, I had a simpler position in the fact that I have the opportunity to use the general pardon under the tax rules and a certain group of taxpayers, not individually, of course, but to forgive the group of taxpayers for the reasons that the law allows. I took advantage of this general pardon, and I forgave the tax. If we put this as an exemption to the Income Tax Act, we would free all refunds. And compensation is also needed when they order armed forces to move to some other - they go to the border to carry out some activity other than what they are directly assigned to, even that is compensation for the salary. So we would actually pour out a bathtub and a baby. So those who made quick judgments and quick solutions, so believe me, I can't afford to make quick solutions, and I always have to make a comprehensive assessment. That's why I couldn't, so I'm sorry about the general. My government colleagues, whether the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs or the Minister of Health, do not have the option of such a general pardon, so we have chosen such a way that these contributions will be paid to those employers, regions, mostly, or hospitals, from the grant titles from which they benefit. That means it's going to increase, the subsidies, the contributions. The procedure for how they will proceed directly, because someone has already done it, someone has not done it etc., was described in the opinion I signed, I have the consent of the two ministerial ministers. I've been given a mandate from the government to explain it. And I sent it, I believe, Monday this week to all the captains and chairman of the County Association, so they'd know exactly how to proceed. [[9.50 hours]] As far as taxi drivers are concerned, of course, Mr. Ambassador, you're right they can't catch it in the media or catch it. I was with the representatives of their cab company, Mr. Polišenský, I believe I can say his name, and other colleagues who were taking video conference calls, in contact. We have prepared a comprehensive report on how to proceed. It was sent here both to this association and posted on the pages of the Financial Administration. We write to each other every day, we're almost like family. So he confirmed it to me. Of course, it was sent where it was required. The procedure that was chosen was with the participation of all players on the market. Because it's not just this cab company, it's Bolt, Liftago, Uber, and so on, everyone in the final decision making was in the video conference call, I was in charge of the meeting. There were also my restorative colleagues involved, representatives of the MIT, representatives of the Ministry of Health. And the interpretation is that there was a contradiction between whether a taxi transporter's vehicle is an establishment, it is a mobile facility. And that's what the dispute was about. In the end, the Ministry of Industry and Trade modified the interpretation so that, yes, it has the character of a mobile establishment, so the Ministry of Health had to make exceptions so that they could operate this taxi service. And because the whole time - it was straightened out to the government on January 18th, this interpretation was discussed - so from October 22nd, when government restrictions began, until January 18th, they received a compensation bonus of CZK 500 a day. That's the conclusion. And all the affected actors have it in writing today since yesterday, the day before yesterday. They have patterns of applications there, as they ask. They have a request to return the deadline to the previous situation under the tax rules, because, of course, the time limits for the compensatory bonus periods are over. Everyone's got it all at their disposal. Feel free to check, Mr. Ambassador. My primary interest is to get this information to people and, of course, to get to the Financial Administration officials, so that they all have the same level of information - both the applicant and the person who pays this compensation bonus. And all this happened these days, please. As for any proposals to increase the compensation bonus, I will not support them, I say this openly. We will stay with the sum of 500 crowns a day. We came from the fact that this corresponds roughly to the minimum wage in monthly terms. It's all for a reason. I understand that it doesn't make it up to those people if they could do business, which is why it's some kind of help, which, of course, besides all the others, is compatible with all the other covido programs. We discussed this here when you remember last year, whether with the infirmary, whether with the antivirus, when they have employees, with COVID - Rent etc., COVID - Closed establishments, so they can simply be combined. Then there was Mrs Kovářová's performance. I saved it for last, she performed last time. And that's where I'll really use the folk expression: it doesn't ring a bell. Once again, Mrs STAN has clearly demonstrated that it represents only ammunition here. It's just ammunition. The impact of this amendment is 0.1 billion. 100 million. Last year the compensation was paid to municipalities - I will repeat it again, because the repetition is the mother of wisdom - 13.4 billion, while the impact of the compensation bonus was around 7 billion. And I'm not talking about grant programs. From the spending side it was year-on-year when I took the budget of 2019 and 2020, 46 billion more ammunition. I will have in March, when the accounts of individual regions, cities and municipalities are completed, I will have accurate data on the accounts, the management, the state of financing, and I will make a separate briefing for the media. I'll prepare the charts, I'll prepare the numbers, and I'll comment on these conclusions and the results. So I think I'm looking for a polite term because I'm always trying to be polite, I'm not finding it for this proposal. And I'm really saying very loudly that I won't support him and I don't consider him appropriate and decent at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u17	I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word after the general debate. Mr. Rapporteur? [[He's not responding.]] He can't hear me because someone's talking to him, but apparently he's not interested, I'll take it he's not interested. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate, and it is the first Mr Feranec to be joined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hereby declare the amendment to the House document 7279. Justification - I refer to what I said in the general debate and to the written justification of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u19	Thank you. I ask Mr. Ferjenčík for a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby subscribe to Amendments 728 - these are agreements that employers do not give jobs because of the crisis, typically people working in offices, but may be others. Next 7282 - this is a reduction in the limit for secondary intervention from 80 per cent to 50 per cent. Next 7283 - this is an increase in the compensation bonus by CZK 170 per day to compensate for the fact that even those entrepreneurs who cannot do business from the government's decision must continue to pay contributions to social and health insurance, so for this reason we propose to increase the bonus by CZK 170 per day, i.e. some CZK 5,000 per month to cover the contributions. Next, 7284 - this is the exemption of compensation received by medical professionals, from taxes and from taxes, and I would like to point out that this applies only to compensation under the crisis law. So I completely disagree with what the Secretary of State said. This is really only about compensation under the crisis law. And it seems illogical to me, first, to withdraw money from those hospitals and then to send subsidies to them. It's an extra bureaucracy. And then I apply to the amendment under number 7289 - this concerns the foster parents of the negotiators who, according to the current version of the law, are not entitled to a compensatory bonus. One more comment about the photographers and the premises. As far as photographers are concerned, I am actually approached by a number of photographers who do not have a studio that do not receive a compensatory bonus, even though they have lost the vast majority of their income precisely because they have been linked to services such as wedding photos, which are now under such conditions that photographers have simply lost orders there. And so do people who had an establishment, but maybe they didn't have it reported, or did their home service or something, but it's really forbidden now. And I don't think they always get the right instruction on how to proceed. Ideal instructions would be that the Financial Administration official tells them to report an additional establishment, informs them of the risk of a fine, usually CZK 1,000, but when they pay this fine, they will be entitled to a compensation bonus in, say, three months to the extent of almost 50,000, so they would certainly be willing to go through this. So sometimes I miss the kind of methodical support that it's not just "you're not entitled because you're missing this box," but that's how you can fix it and you'll be entitled to it. And thank you for fixing the situation where cab drivers weren't getting support. So much for my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u21	Thank you. Madame Kovářová, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u22	I would like to sign up for my amendment tabled together with my colleague Ferjenčík and is under House document 7291. At the same time, allow me to respond to the Minister's speech. She... or she felt like she was accusing me. And for each of you to realize who I represent here, that I represent the interests of municipalities and regions here, that is, according to the Minister, shameful. Madam Secretary, do you know how many residents live in municipalities and regions? Ten million inhabitants. So I represent the interests of these 10 million people, and I'm proud of that. First of all. Secondly, you have made the biggest attack on the financing of municipalities and regions, in the sense that it almost occurred that the municipalities will be affected not only by the loss of the compensation bonus, which you have refused to compensate for for a long time. Luckily, the compensation for the municipalities managed to be enforced, but you bailed on the edge. First of all. Secondly, the next attack is the abolition of the supergross wage, which meant 100 billion outages overall and for municipalities and regions in the order of several tens of billions. With great fame in the Senate, compensation for municipalities and regions has been accepted by increasing the budgetary determination of taxes, but only from 70 percent. Already in this way today municipalities and regions seem to breathe with the state, that is, if the state succeeds, there are higher tax collections, municipalities have more money, if the state fails, there is a lower choice, so of course the municipalities and the regions also have less money. And that's the solidarity. With the compensation bonus, it's different. As far as funding is concerned, you always boast, Madam Secretary, how well public finances are. But it's not because of the government's management. This is due to the management of municipalities and regions, and they are mostly in a good way. As a result, you have balanced and stable public finances. So I think that your consideration that it is shameful to protect and fight for the communities and regions where 10 million of our citizens live is not entirely logical. And perhaps even further explained, we may not have understood each other: the amendment - even given that this amendment is going in a legislative emergency - has only been tabled today. So if I understand how we wrote this amendment - and there may have been a misunderstanding. This amendment, which seeks to compensate for the outages of municipalities and regions from the compensatory bonus, does not only concern this amendment, but concerns the entire compensation bonus law. So much for an explanation. I have read the explanatory memorandum well, I have seen that the blackout in this amendment is indeed marginal, but the compensation bonus continues from the beginning of the year, so the amendment is related to the entire compensation bonus law, not just to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u23	Good morning, honourable Members. That was Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr Marian Jurečka is now continuing in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. In the general debate, I have justified the two proposals for amendments that I have tabled, so I am now referring to them. The first one is under number 7205 and concerns an increase in the compensation bonus to CZK 20,000 per month and the second one is under number 7206 and concerns the extension of the compensatory bonus also to those entrepreneurs who do not have an establishment and are limited to the possibility of doing business and having income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u25	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. I'm asking if there's anyone else in the detailed debate. No one's reporting, so I'm done with the detailed debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after a detailed debate. Yes, Madam Secretary of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u26	Well, thank you. I'm not gonna say what I said again. About Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová... He's over there, I didn't see you, I'd be sorry. Let's see those numbers again. The compensation bonus for Monday of this week for all periods of spring, autumn and sequel, from the very beginning to Monday of this week, was paid 25 269 209 106. This means that munitions on shared taxes have lost about 8 billion in all periods. The compensation bonus for the municipalities last year was 13.4 billion, so we still have a prepaid fee, Madame. And when it comes to comparing how much of the budget went from the spending side between 2019 and 2020, for municipalities, it's plus 46 billion. 46 billion more. Please look into the cashier's performance and budget, it's obvious there. And in March - and I repeat it again - I'm going to do a briefing with the Prime Minister, we're going to have an agreement because I'm going to have the management of all regions, towns and municipalities - now shutting down, they usually come in February, this year we're waiting for a little delay, so it's not going to happen until March, and there's going to be numbers clearly given from the financial statements. And we will present those numbers with the Prime Minister together in a joint press briefing. And, as they say, the hyen is roaring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-002-002.u27	Thank you. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Amendments have been tabled, legislation needs to process them, so I will interrupt item 2 with the fact that we would start discussing the third readings that are on the agenda, that is, after points 350, 352 or before them, that is, after point 1, after the area of benefits, if no one objects to the President's procedure. I don't see the objection, I'm interrupting item two. We will proceed according to the approved agenda item number
