ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u1	6. Proposal for a law on the verification of foreign investment and on the amendment of related laws (Law on the verification of foreign investment) /German press 834/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 834/6. We are given information on the amendments in our mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us and I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček comment on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to renegotiate the Government's bill on the verification of foreign investments that the Senate is returning to the House, with one amendment. As you know, this law will provide our country with the necessary tool to defend against risky investors from third countries who could endanger the security, public or internal order of our country. It will also implement the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a so-called European mechanism for cooperation and exchange of information in this area in October last year. In general, this law is considered to be very important and I was very pleased that in November this bill was supported by a total majority of votes across all political parties, as it is a standard that will significantly strengthen the security of our country and its long-term development. I would like to reiterate that the bill takes responsibility not only for our national security but also for the interests of riskless foreign investors, Czech companies, to which a foreign investor may wish to enter. The balance of these interests is also taken into account in the draft law on the basis of experience from abroad, where investments have been investigated for decades. Unfortunately, I must say that the Senate proposal significantly undermines, from our point of view, the very carefully balanced structure of the original text and could, from our point of view, very seriously damage our entire economy by, in its essence, preventing a large part of foreign investment. And I point out, it's not just the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Other institutions that will participate in the implementation of the law share this very serious concern with us. I will mention the NSA, the National Security Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the intelligence services as well as business representatives, including the Confederation of Industry and Transport and others. I would therefore like to comment briefly on this Senate proposal. If the Senate version of this bill were actually approved, there is a risk that we will stop much of foreign investment in the most important sectors of our economy and at the same time paralyze the emerging verification mechanism. The Senate proposal introduces, and it is important to mention and stress, a new obligation for a foreign investor to submit a valid document of security competence issued by the National Security Authority. However, under applicable laws, the National Security Authority may issue this document only for a few economic activities, such as arms exports. If we wanted to look in more detail, these are activities arising from the atomic law, the Mining Act, the Public Procurement Act, or other activities, activities, but not everything connected with banking, the financial market, telecommunications does not fit there, for example. In other words, we would not be able to make Vodafone, which has invested here because, among other things, it is from Great Britain today, it is no longer from the European Union. It doesn't fit everything about the health segment, and even part of the energy, except for the atomic one. In fact, a risk-free investor who would like to invest in an important Czech company, which was named by these specific activities, which I had just named, would not deal with, for example, the bank, is not then entitled to apply for proof of security capability, so he cannot actually obtain it from the NSA. So we would impose an obligation on a foreign investor that, at best, he cannot fulfil. The investment could not be investigated, nor could it be approved, even so, and that is the paradox that it will not pose any security risk. Risky foreign investments, which are undoubtedly desirable for our economy, which contribute to growth and so on, create jobs, would not be possible because of unfulfilled administrative requirements. And you can imagine how foreign investors who are interested in investing with us and who we are also interested in would react. I note that these are and would undoubtedly be investors from the United States, Japan, Korea, Great Britain and so on, not only from so-called risky countries. [[18.10 hours]] I must stress that the original bill in the version approved by this House, and once again thank you, is a high-quality and very honest legislative draft, which has very broad support, not only across the political spectrum, but also all the security institutions involved: NBÚ, intelligence services, interior departments, defence and so on. That is why I believe that it is not desirable at this time to supplement it with any other attributes, although, objectively speaking, they may be well-meaning, we have nothing against it. But our prosperity and the future of our economy are in play. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to reject the Senate version of the bill and express the same support for the bill in the same version that we have approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u3	Thank you. I ask now that Senator Tomáš Goláň take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, I will start from the back. The law is really good, it's late, but it's good. In the European Union, countries had similar laws before, for example, 2017. No offense, but what Minister Havlíček said here is absolutely not true, because we do not want to prevent foreign investment. We need to know what foreign investment is. It is an investment made by a foreign investor. A foreign investor is defined as a person outside the European Union. But what foreign investment do we want to investigate? We want to investigate the arms industry, investments in the nuclear industry and investments in the so-called critical infrastructure. This must be said to be a critical infrastructure. The critical infrastructure is such investments that have an element of critical infrastructure which has a cross-cutting criterion where the victim's aspect with a limit value of more than 250 dead or more than 2,5 thousand persons with subsequent hospitalization for more than 24 hours or, where appropriate, may have an economic impact with an economic loss limit of more than 0,5 per cent of gross domestic product or an impact on the public with a limit of extensive restriction on the provision of the necessary services or other serious intervention in daily life affecting more than 125 000 people. These critical infrastructures are absolutely essential. And it's not a normal investment in banks or industry or what the Minister of Industry and Trade said. These are things worthy of special consideration, which can fundamentally threaten the security of our state. The NBU Act, Act 412. This law states in its first part that it applies to sensitive activities. They then look at the sensitive activity so that it must be directly defined in a specific law. This means that it should be defined in the Foreign Investment Protection Act. No, it's just that the subset falls into it. The Atomic Act does not have a defined sensitive activity, yet it is subject to NBU screenings. And the NSA clearances apply to anything that's sensitive. Sensitive activity is defined as an abuse where the interests of the Czech Republic could be threatened. And we in the first paragraph of the subject matter of the law on the protection or verification of foreign investments have that this law lays down rules on the examination of certain foreign investments in order to protect the security of the Czech Republic and internal or public order. Therefore, it falls within a set of sensitive activities that could endanger the state. Indeed, there is only critical infrastructure, nuclear investment and investment in the arms industry. No other foreign investment will be subject to the need to have a National Security Authority clearance. Only one who is the so-called real owner must have a National Security Authority clearance. The amendment introduces a search for a real investor and a real natural person who is responsible for a foreign investment. Such a person, if he is not from the EU or does not have similar NATO clearance, that is, the United States, of course, has NATO clearance, can apply for this clearance either by the Czech National Security Office or by similar authorities within the EU and possibly NATO. So no ordinary investment, as has been said here, can endanger the amendment that came from the Senate. So I therefore ask you to really take care of the security of this state - Minister Havlíček is right, it is a key law - and support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u5	Thank you, Senator. I also ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which was the economic committee, Mr Pavel Juříček, who is then enrolled in the debate whether he wants to speak before the debate is opened. No, there's no need, so he'll be performing in the debate later. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Helena Langšádlová and Mr Pavel Juříček are the first to be entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I consider the draft which was discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to be a good one and I consider it one of the most important legislative proposals of last year. I really think that, like other European countries, most of the other European countries, we needed this legislation, and that is why we supported this proposal in the House of Deputies. Of course, we have also examined the proposal presented by the senator here. I would, at first glance, and if I were to take this directly politically, I could say: we will support the Senate proposal, it also concerns the core. And as you know, we care very much for Russia and China to be excluded from the construction of nuclear resources. In spite of all this, we cannot support this proposal, because in this case, I agree with what Minister Havlíček said here. There are many risks in the Senate proposal. I believe that the approval of the Senate proposal would lead to the paralysis of the investment verification system, to damage our economy. We would also harm investors from countries such as South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, Israel, and indeed, although I believe that the Senate's proposal was well-intentioned, we will not support this proposal and we will support the proposal that has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies because we consider it very important to protect investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u7	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, Mr Jan Lipavský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, through the President, I thank Helenka Langšádlová for the position, because we are a truly open economy and the law that we have prepared - which I was rapporteur in the Chamber of Deputies - with Martina Tauberová, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, and with Minister Havlíček was handled very well. We need to realise that we are a truly open economy, and the Senate proposal, which is directed perhaps precisely to investigate Chinese and Russian investment, will nevertheless have an impact on everything else. This must be borne in mind that the diction of the Senate proposal is not as clear as the Senator here has spoken, but it would really mean that we could influence subsequently the investments that are from Asia, Japan, Indonesia, South Korea, as my colleague said, as well as from the United States, whether North America or South America. Let us really be proud that we have very consensually passed a law in that form by the MPs, by an absolutely overwhelming majority, and we have discussed it quite significantly. On the one hand, let us remain an open economy, on the other hand, let us - and we have put this there - all the possibilities that the Ministry of Industry and Trade will have to verify investments, including logical deadlines and their possible extension. Because the senator is right about one thing. Yes, we have to get to the final investor, but that is what the parliamentary version of the law allows. So please, on my part, this is a major disagreement with the Senate version. You know that I am a Czech businessman and that I strongly support Czech businessmen here to dominate more and more, in quotation marks, but this does not mean that we restrict foreign investment in certain areas in which the Czech investor does not stand a chance. There are sectors that are transnational and that we need for the economy to grow and our future to be secured at that financial level. So, please, let's accept the parliamentary option, though I say that the Senate may have had a good intention. However, it could really only be to reduce the future prosperity of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u9	Thank you and Mr Jan Lipavský will now speak, the last one to be entered in the debate at this time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you very briefly to the position of our club. We'll support both versions if the Senate doesn't pass. The reason we stand behind the Senate's version is because we believe that it is philosophically going in the right direction, and the legal debate about what the consequences would be is indeed a legal debate, and it is to a large extent also a question of, say, the will and interpretation of existing laws as they exist. This means that the consequences clearly would not have to be as drastic as they were presented here by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. However, what has been said here in the previous discussion of the law is still true, especially in the third reading, when we clearly said that we are behind the norm, that we agree with the principle of checking foreign investment. The debate on geopolitics is largely continuous here in the House and this is true, and we see it as a positive contribution to the security of the Czech Republic. So I think I have very briefly outlined how we are going to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Neither the Minister nor the Senator is interested in the final words. Oh, I'm sorry. The senator will speak with the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u12	Thank you for the floor. What's the NBU's clearance gonna do? The NBU's verification will push the investment start-up by 75 days at the most. That means if he's a safe investor, he'll get a background check on the NBU. If this investor doesn't meet the criteria of Act 412, he simply doesn't get this clearance. And that's it. When critical infrastructure or other investments are being dealt with, it's not selling rolls at the store that I'm gonna come, I'm gonna give money, and I'm gonna take them away, it's stuff that's been getting ready for a long time. If I have 75 days to check out the NSA for this long-term preparation, then the 75 days against the security it's supposed to ensure is a relatively short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-006-006.u13	Thank you. The Minister is not interested in the final word, so we will vote. We shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Section 97 (4) of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on the examination of foreign investments and on the amendment of related laws, according to House press 834/5, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 834/6." [[Act on Foreign Investment Verification]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26. 172 Members registered, for 24, against 85. This means that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Section 97 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt this resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed, and thus the agreement of 101 Members. The number of votes we need is set. The resolution is now as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on the verification of foreign investment and on the amendment of related laws, in the version in which it was passed to the Senate, according to the House press 834/5." [[Act on Foreign Investment Verification]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27. 173 Members registered, for 164, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. Now we're going to go with point number
