ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws /house print 800/ - second reading Since the Minister of Defense is excused for medical reasons, which I think I forgot to read... So I'm gonna use that moment to read the apologies. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - health reasons, Tomáš Petříček - health reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. Under the authority of the government, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u2	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the substitution of Mr Metnar's government colleague, I would like to re-submit this Act on Military Intelligence, which is going through a second reading. This is a government proposal amending the Military Intelligence Act. It was discussed in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the resulting solution in the form of amendments is essentially the result of the joint work of all stakeholders, i.e. both the Ministry of Defence and Military Intelligence, as well as individual representatives across the political spectrum and the professional public and the private sector. A significant shift is taking into account the position of the private sector as a partner in dealing with crisis situations. Military intelligence will cooperate directly with entities that are already actively involved in protecting the Czech cyberspace. The detection of attacks itself will be carried out exclusively targeted, on the basis of pre-defined indicators and coordinated cooperation with other security forces and the private sector. Any interference with cyber attacks will only be made possible to Military Intelligence as an extreme solution to national self-defense if people's lives are threatened, for example because of the decommissioning of the IT system of a hospital or a power plant, plus if it does not go another way and it will have to be done as quickly as possible. This will always be a coordinated approach with other elements of the national security system. The new activities of Military Intelligence will be subject to control mechanisms ensuring compliance with legal constraints, such as the obligation to keep audit records and the operation of detection tools which will be fully accessible to the control authorities. In addition to internal control, this activity will be subject to a system of so-called three-stage control, namely by the government, Parliament and independent control authorities. In addition to the above, the function of cyberdefense inspector will be a significant novelty for data management purposes. He will be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, always after discussion in the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. This person shall be independent in the performance of his/her duties and shall be bound only by the legal order in his/her decision. Its primary task will be to supervise data protection and information processed by Military Intelligence and related procedures in the performance of cyber defence, including respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. The main objective of the proposal is to be prepared for modern threats and prevent possible negative consequences, or to be able to respond adequately to threats that are unfortunately more than real these days. I guess that's it for the introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Defence Committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of Military Intelligence and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The resolution of committees and commissions was delivered as House prints 800/1 to 4. I will ask Mr Ratiborsky, who will take the role of rapporteur at second reading, to justify any amendments and inform us of the discussion of the proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the discussion of the proposed bill in the Committee on Defence as a committee of guarantee. The Defence Committee discussed the bill at its meeting on 11 November and recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended and some other laws, should be approved, as amended by the amendment of Members Jana Černochová, Josef Bělica, Marek Benda, Robert Králíček, Jan Lipavský, Ondřej Profant and František Kopřiva, which was adopted by the Defence Committee for the Bill and which was published under the House's press no. 800/2. This is basically one comprehensive amendment. Since this amendment is comprehensive and is an important amendment to the law, I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies in more detail. First of all, the amendment to incorporate two less invasive variants to conduct detection is at the heart of the amendment, rather than the proposed placement of its own sources of detection by Military Intelligence. As the first option in this regard, the amendment brings the possibility of voluntary agreement with operators, i.e. the use of their capabilities and technical capabilities, following information that Military Intelligence has from its intelligence activities and from cooperation with partners. An anchoring of this possibility of obtaining information about a possible cyber attack or threat is the fulfillment of the necessary mutual cooperation and cooperation between the state and the private sector. Another addition contained in the amendment is the possibility of Military Intelligence to operationally require synergies in a specific case when it would be necessary to respond promptly, again using the instruments and measures of obliged persons. This is an opportunity to require synergies in cases where it is not advisable to conclude an agreement with the operators concerned in the long term and thereby to burden them administratively and responsibly, but with regard to the current threat, it is necessary for the State to take advantage of security measures implemented by them. Thanks to this, military intelligence will be able to respond very effectively and adequately quickly to current threats and trends. Following the above two new instruments, the conditions governing the operation of their own detection tools are also regulated by Military Intelligence. It appeared essential to include in the proposal the criterion that the introduction of own detection tools is an extreme option only if it is not possible to provide detection under a cooperation agreement or to conclude such an agreement in the case at hand, and this could not be achieved always on condition that the important interest of the defence of the State so requires. This means that the location in question must be essential in order to ensure the defence of the State. Compliance with these conditions will be part of the justification for the administrative decision on the location of the detection instrument and will therefore also be subject to possible degradation. The judicial review in administrative justice should be a sufficient instrument to control the abuse of this institute. The amendment also adds to the text of the amendment that the detection tools cannot be used for active intervention. In the case of deployment of detection tools by Military Intelligence, this must therefore be strictly passive equipment, which can only record the legal scope of metadata. The scope in this proposal is more detailed than the original version, where emphasis is placed on the fact that military intelligence instruments can record only metadata about captured cyber attacks or threats based on pre-configured indicators. This is not a surface collection of metadata, but a targeted and clearly controlled search for pre-known phenomena and harmfulness. [[9.30 hours]] The amendment also takes into account the significant position of the national CERT. This security team is executed under a public contract concluded with the National Cyber and Information Security Authority and its primary task is to address and coordinate security incidents. This will enable Military Intelligence to pass on their knowledge and to warn private entities about possible threats and planned cyber attacks on their networks so that they are prevented and protected by both companies and hospitals, banks, authorities, but ultimately by all residents of the Czech Republic. The amendment also reflects the requirements for a conceptual change in the selection of the person of the cyber defence inspector when it is to be a new person appointed from experts outside the structure of Military Intelligence, rather than as proposed by the Government's bill. This gives room for the choice of an erudite person who has a reputation within the professional public and will be able to better fulfil the intention to carry out control by an independent trusted person. Following this, it is established that the activities of the Cyber Defence Inspector can be carried out both within the military service and employment relationship, but will be a member of Military Intelligence. This is essential for the intention to exercise internal control and thus complement external independent control mechanisms. Last but not least, the amendment also takes into account partial comments explaining the procedural conditions for the placing of detection tools, in particular for examples of extension of the time limit where it was delivered that before each such decision there must be a re-assessment of the justification for fulfilling the conditions of such a step. All these changes have been made within the framework of discussions and comments from the professional public on the draft law. In addition, the amendment also brings about a change in the regulation of the institutions of independent control of the intelligence services of the Czech Republic. The current legislation contains a requirement that the Government must always propose to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice as many persons as the number of places occupied in the body of independent intelligence control. Therefore, at least ten candidates should be involved in the first election. However, the independent intelligence control authority has not started its activities to date. The basic reason for this is probably a low number of people who would meet the legal criteria. It is therefore proposed that the law does not contain the government's obligation to propose at least twice the number of candidates to the authorities of independent intelligence control than the number of places occupied. The essential fact is that the Chamber of Deputies is not bound by government proposals. It may reject them and not elect any candidate to be a member of the independent intelligence control body. For such constellation, the requirement for twice the number of candidates is not only redundant but counterproductive during the first choice. As regards the requirements for membership of an independent intelligence control body, the current regulation contains a long-standing disproportionate qualification assumption in the form of the need to obtain legal education. While the task of the independent control authority is to check the legality of intelligence activities, including the control of respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, but also with regard to the content of the government amendment, which extends the competence to participate in the provision of defence in cyberspace, it is evident that much more knowledge from other fields can be of major benefit for the proper exercise of control. Not only can this criterion be another obstacle to the selection of suitable candidates, but it would also be more appropriate for persons with knowledge not only from the legal field but also from the security, cyber, intelligence or personal data protection sector to operate within this body. Last but not least, the amendment comes with the addition of the neglected area, which is crucial for the successful completion of cyberspace defence. This is the status of individual members who have cyber defence activities in the framework of Military Intelligence. The amendment complements the introduction of a polygraph examination obligation as an internal control instrument. Furthermore, it comes with provisions that reflect the specific status of Military Intelligence as a intelligence service, which becomes even more pronounced in the case of new competences than in the ordinary service of a professional soldier. The proposal therefore complements the government amendment by one specific point extending control mechanisms and a set of exceptions reflecting the specific status of persons who can exercise new competences in such specific activities related to the defence of the state in cyberspace. In particular, in exceptional cases where it requires an important interest in the service, to call a citizen into service, or to place a member of Military Intelligence in the appropriate place, even if they do not meet the qualifications or medical conditions laid down for that post in Military Intelligence. Furthermore, this bill was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, in total twice: on 4. 11. 2020 when the hearing was suspended, the relevant resolution can be found under press number 800/1 and then on 18. 11. 2020 recommended the adoption of the Law to the House by a resolution under press number 800/4. The draft law was also dealt with by the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Operation of Military Intelligence, which discussed the proposal on 5. 11. 2020 and recommended to the House the adoption of this motion by a resolution under press number 800/3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'll read an additional apology once more. Minister Jan Blatný apologizes for the whole day for working reasons. Now, I would like to ask that someone from the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Control of the Operation of Military Intelligence - is Mr Lipavský here? It's not. Mrs Černochová, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u6	Yes, Mr President, I am Vice-President of this Honored Commission, so I will allow myself to represent Mr Lipavský's colleague and tell the House that the Permanent Committee on the Control of the Activity of Military Intelligence, press 800, the amendment to the Military Intelligence Act discussed on 5 November 2020 and recommended the House to approve this amendment as amended by the amendments which are identical to the amendments adopted by the Defence Committee, which were justified here by the rapporteur, Mr Ratiborský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u7	Thank you. I would also ask that someone else take the floor for the constitutionally-legal committee. I don't see Mr President, but Mrs Válková, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u8	Thank you. So in that case, I will not use my application because the constitutional-legal committee has repeatedly dealt with this press. Finally, he took a favourable view of him. We discussed two things the most. The first concerns what has already been said here that when an institution - and rightly so, because we have heard from the Minister about the world in which we live and how important this cybersecurity is - so extensive powers and can basically monitor the movement of activities of people who might be hostile to our country, so it must be here - otherwise it is a half-baked law, as we have repeatedly discussed it on the constitutional-legal committee through the optics of constitutional law - so it is an institution that must be well controlled. And parliamentary control, we know it has its limits. Logically. And it's the right thing to do. Especially in this area. However, the establishment of a control body is foreseen there. It is difficult to blame the government for this in this respect, because the original criteria have been set so rigorously that they are essentially impossible to meet. So, as far as I know, about five or seven people were designed there. It takes, as has been said here, much more to choose from. So it seems to be an impossible task. And I believe that the leadership of Military Intelligence is also aware of this, that it is a matter in this regard, and we discussed this with other, say, technical and security aspects, who can install a box where and under what conditions, which will, of course, capture the relevant information, whether it should be an operator or whether it should be the workers themselves. And here I have to say, there's been a compromise that we can so-called live with, so the constitutionally-legal committee finally said yes. However, there is constant concern that we do not have a control institution and, of course, we will support amendments that soften the rules in this respect so that we can even establish it so that the government can appoint people who are competent to that audit institution. So that it doesn't turn out that we're going to have a very powerful institution here for a few years, but it's not going to be controlled by anyone in the professional field, let's say technically technological. In this parliamentary case, as my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová, has already mentioned, Mr President, it certainly works. So, for the constitutionally-legal committee, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u9	Thank you. Minister Miroslav Toman apologizes for the whole meeting today for work reasons. I am opening a general debate. Mr Kopřiva is the first to enter it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, I'll be a little longer with permission, but I hope you don't mind. I will briefly comment on the development, because the press has been with us for a long time, I think since last March, and the material even since the beginning of the parliamentary term, but it has made positive changes, but then we will propose some more changes for the pirát and I will be happy if you read them and possibly support them. I'll also be available for further information. As regards the joint comprehensive amendment adopted by the Defence Committee, as the rapporteur has already said, we think that it improves quite considerably, we fully identify with it and support it. I will also ask for your support, my dear fellow Members, through Mr President. As the most fundamental problems from our point of view, there was what detection tools were to perform so that they could not read the content of Internet communication. Now, in the joint amendment, it is clearly defined that only metadata are being monitored, not content, or the net flow of the Internet is what Military Intelligence needs, so that is a big step for the better. And then, as well as better setting up cooperation with large operators, that installing detection tools will only be necessary in the extreme case and otherwise it will be about some partnership between Military Intelligence and operators, as well as as the rapporteur said, so that the detection tools cannot be active in the device, that they will only be monitored. What remains a little debatable and controversial are the very active interventions. After all, that's the gros of the proposal. And we understand that Military Intelligence cannot tell us, as Members, how these operations work in detail. I understand that they need this power, and I am certainly aware of the threats in cyberspace that we face and the needs of Military Intelligence to be operational and operational. However, it still remains debatable. On this point, I would like to thank the Military Intelligence for the constructive dialogue with us as Members. I am a little sorry that the Minister is not here, although I understand that he is indisposed, but unfortunately the Minister was not very active even before, perhaps he did not attend the seminar last summer in the Chamber of Deputies. And at this point, which, in the previous version of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, was bombarded from all possible comment points, such as the Office for Personal Data Protection and so on, that there must be a strict appreciation for the proportionality of active interventions, I think that the Minister should take political responsibility for this and be more active in explaining both to us as the House and to the public. So I hope that he will attend at least third reading and take political responsibility for it. After all, it is not the work of Military Intelligence to defend it here in front of MPs. So, briefly, on the complex amendment, on the positive changes, on what may still remain problematic there. And what did not fit into the joint amendment, I uploaded five amendments into the system. As perhaps the most fundamental I perceive Amendment 7255, i.e. cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic. I will also read the full justification, because this law, although not very much medialized, I see as a really important material from the point of view of civil liberties and privacy and it is actually quite a precedent for such a powerful institution as Military Intelligence. Systematic interpretation of the proposed provision § 16f para. 6 it can be concluded that "by providing synergies" is the implementation of active interventions at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic. We propose to remove the possibility from the draft amendment of the law that Military Intelligence in connection with activities and measures in cyberspace may provide synergies at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic. In Article 16b (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the proposed draft amendment of the law states that in carrying out the activities and measures carried out in connection with securing state defence in cyberspace, Military Intelligence cooperates with security forces, which also includes the Police of the Czech Republic. It follows that cooperation and synergies in the transfer of information between Military Intelligence and the Police of the Czech Republic would remain unaffected by the removal of that provision. Military intelligence can thus use information from the Police of the Czech Republic to secure the defence of the Czech Republic and use it to decide the need for active intervention in the standard way. In the law on the Police of the Czech Republic, the purpose of ensuring the security of the Czech Republic in the cyberspace of the Czech Republic is not determined. The final report from the regulatory impact assessment states that the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic in the field of cyber threats are the fight against cybercrime and cyberterrorism with reference to a number of crimes. The only meaningful interpretation of the proposed provision in § 16f para. 6 is then authorized to carry out active interventions by Military Intelligence in the prevention of crime by the Police of the Czech Republic. The power to carry out active interventions at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic is unacceptable and breaks the principles of conduct of criminal proceedings. The police of the Czech Republic could, after approval of the proposed modification, be tasked with military intelligence for the fight against crime, which is an undesirable condition. Criminal proceedings are generally conducted by the fact that individual actions affecting citizens' rights are dependent on judicial review. Contrary to this, the powers of Military Intelligence in the proposed legislation are in the competence of executive authority and are not subject to prior judicial review. The outcome of the approval of the proposed legislation would be an authorisation potentially exploitable with possible far-reaching consequences. So we propose explicitly to delete active interventions at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic. Amendment 7256 extends control of Military Intelligence. A strong control and surveillance mechanism is an essential part of the responsible functioning of the intelligence services. The intensity of supervision of control authorities should therefore correspond to the powers conferred on Military Intelligence. This is also one of the conclusions of the report of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. The report compared the activities and legal anchoring of intelligence services in the European Union States. Opinion 3 of the report states: "EU Member States should establish a reliable supervisory framework corresponding to the powers and capacities of intelligence services. Member States should also provide supervisory authorities with the power to initiate their own investigations, as well as permanent, complete and direct access to the information and documents necessary to fulfil their role.'; In order to carry out sufficient control of Military Intelligence in the Cyber Defence Section, the list in paragraph 1 should be included. 1 § 16l, which lists the information provided without calling on Military Intelligence during the inspection carried out, supplemented by reports on the activities of Military Intelligence involving State defence in cyberspace pursuant to § 16i. Furthermore, the original wording of the draft amendment requires the nominal designation of the inspection body of the Chamber of Deputies instead of the merely and vague designation "Deputy Chamber of Deputies'. In addition, the text of the Act requires a list of the information subject to scrutiny by both the provisions of the Act and their legislative designation. In the original version of the draft new § 16l para. 2 information which the control authorities could request during the inspection was listed but did not provide for the obligation of Military Intelligence to provide such information. There might be a situation that Military Intelligence would be requested by the supervisory authority for information, but Military Intelligence would refuse to issue the requested information while respecting the letter of the law. It is necessary to amend the wording of the Act in such a way that military intelligence is also required to issue information on request. Furthermore, we propose that § 16l para. 2 which sets out information issued by Military Intelligence at the request of the controlling authorities, has been supplemented by other documents. These are reports of deficiencies in the provision of data protection and information processed by the Cyber Defence Inspector and of cooperation agreements between Military Intelligence and network operators pursuant to Section 16b para. 2. In particular, the inclusion of the Cooperation Agreement between Military Intelligence and the Network Operator pursuant to § 16b para. 2 is desirable because it is a public service delegation contract which replaces the decision on the location of the detection instrument under Section 16e, which is already classified as controlled documents according to the original proposal. It is desirable that not only the authority of independent control but also the Permanent Commission for the Control of Military Intelligence activities of the Chamber of Deputies should be able to carry out control of Military Intelligence. Two bodies may be considered as the control bodies of Military Intelligence, which are independent of the executive power: the supervisory authority of the Chamber of Deputies and the independent control authority of the intelligence services of the Czech Republic. [[9.50 hours]] According to the originally proposed text, the power to carry out control on the initiative of the network operator would have only an independent intelligence control authority, but would not have been the authority of the Chamber of Deputies. This situation is undesirable due to the fact that there is no independent control of the intelligence services and the uncertainty whether it will be established in the near future, also if changes were made on the basis of draft amendments to the law, there is therefore a risk that such control would not be carried out. In Amendment 7257, the House Commission reports are once again expanding. It is desirable that the report on the activities and measures of Military Intelligence involving State defence in cyberspace should include a minimum mandatory scope of information. By Article 16i (2) (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. We therefore propose a second sentence which contains a list of the minimum mandatory scope of information. The list of information includes the basic activities and measures that Military Intelligence carries out in defence of the state in cyberspace. This minimum mandatory scope of information shall provide indicators for control authorities on the basis of which it can assess changes over the years. This will help not only better control the Military Intelligence within the scope of its powers, but also identify the need to strengthen the cyber defence section in the future. In Amendment 7258 - this also concerns control through House controls. A strong control and surveillance mechanism is an essential part of the responsible functioning of the intelligence services. The intensity of supervision of control authorities should therefore correspond to the powers conferred on Military Intelligence. This is also one of the conclusions of the report of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, as I have already mentioned. The report compared activities across states, as I have already said. What is important is that one of the fundamental principles in a democratic rule of law is the principle of brakes and contradiction, which constitutes a mechanism for the division of power in a state. The power of the legislature carries out the control activity of the executive power, a principle which should also be reflected in the proposal. In Article 16l, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 is addressed by the conclusion on the basis of facts identified by the Cyber Defence Inspector. It is desirable that one of the institutions that makes its conclusion to investigate should also be a legislative authority, alongside the institutions of power. For this reason, we propose that the provision be supplemented by a permanent commission for the control of the activities of Military Intelligence of the Chamber of Deputies. It is desirable that not only the authority of independent control but also the permanent commission for the control of the activities of Military Intelligence to the Chamber of Deputies should be able to reach its conclusion. As I said in the previous recital, the point is that the independent control body is not yet operational, and therefore the House Commission should have the same option. And I come to the last amendment, thank you for your patience. This concerns, as the rapporteur and Mrs Government Human Rights Commissioner also mentioned here, an independent control body which is already set up, but it is difficult to occupy. And I acknowledge that this is being dealt with in the joint amendment. However, in order to actually be occupied, we decided to go a little further and simplify the conditions for its occupation. The scope and method of control of intelligence services is laid down primarily by the law on intelligence services of the Czech Republic. The activities of intelligence services are subject to control of the government, the Chamber of Deputies and the body of independent control of the intelligence services of the Czech Republic. The independent control authority has not started its activities to date, since the Government of the Chamber of Deputies has not even proposed a candidate to choose over more than two years of effectiveness of this regulation. The basic reason for this is probably a low number of people who would meet the legal criteria. In the draft amendments to the laws currently in the Chamber of Deputies, the amendment of the Czech Intelligence Act is proposed to reduce the defined criteria for the selection of members of the body of independent intelligence control. This proposal removes the criterion of the need to nominate twice as many members as the number of posts occupied by members of the independent control body, as well as the need for higher education in the field of law. This is a step in the right direction, but it is not certain whether independent control will be sufficient to fill the body. It is necessary for the independent control authority to function and for its establishment not to be put in practice difficult to fulfil the conditions and the performance of the function is sufficiently rewarded. We therefore propose to supplement the draft amendment of the Act with further amendments in Sections 12e and 12h in order to allow the provision to be filled by the independent control authority of intelligence services. We propose to lower the age limit for a 40-year-old member to 30-year-olds. We propose to reduce the number of years when a member of the independent control body was not a member or an employee of the Security Corps of the Czech Republic, a professional soldier or an employee of the armed forces of the Czech Republic from three to one year. Finally, we propose to increase the financial evaluation for the performance of the function of a member of the independent control body. There is a need for sufficient financial collateral for the members of the independent control body to provide sufficient incentive for the performance of the function to reduce the life-saving function. Moreover, better financial collateral would also increase the prestige of the function and reduce the risk of a member's bribery. For 2020 - this is no longer the case - a member of the independent control authority would receive CZK 25 300 per month for the performance of the function, which corresponds to the current salary coefficient of 0.25. We propose to increase the pay coefficient to 0,75 - equivalent to CZK 75 700 per month, which would not at the same time represent a significant increase in the state budget. I will add: I have yet to update this last amendment. We originally suggested that there would be no incompatibility, that senators and judges could sit in the independent control body, but we finally changed our mind, and we think that it really should be incompatible and that senators or judges should not be sitting there, so we shortened the amendment. In any case, I hope that the independent control authority will be able to fill up to get it to work. And I will ask you to support the amendments extending our House's power to control a intelligence service that has power and competence, which is right to provide cyber defense for the state. But in a democratic rule of law, it should be balanced with sufficient control. And I will also ask for the support of the amendment so that military intelligence cannot explicitly carry out active interventions at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic in some domestic criminal matters, because military intelligence is to provide only and only defense of the state. Thank you for your attention. Before the third reading, I will be happy if we can still discuss our amendments, if they are acceptable to you. And once again, I thank all those who have helped to present together a comprehensive amendment which greatly improves the material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for giving us a comprehensive statement of reasons. I have a factual comment from Mrs Válková. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u12	I'm just gonna add that up because I wasn't ready to do this as rapporteur for the constitutionally-legal committee. I therefore add that this resolution is from November 18, 2020, which we recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal. At the same time, we recommend the changes and additions that I have mentioned, particularly in connection with the detection and cooperation of Military Intelligence. It was contained and you have a detailed version of the resolution in the Houses of the Press 800/4. And I stress here that we have identified ourselves on the constitutionally-legal committee as well as the amendments contained in the resolution of the Defence Committee, press 800/2. For the sake of completeness, this should be heard by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u13	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If I do not see anyone, I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in the final words after the general debate? It's not like that. I am opening the debate in detail. Mr Kopřiva is entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u14	Thank you, I'll be much more brief now. I am committed to the amendments 7255, 7256, 7257, 7258 and 7315, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u15	Thank you. Mr králíček for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u16	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I'd like to propose a reduction in the deadline for seven days. The guarantee committee will discuss the amendments on Wednesday, February 3, so that we can discuss the third reading as soon as possible. So I suggest we cut the deadline to seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u17	Thank you. I ask if there is anyone else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. There was no motion to return, but a proposal was made to shorten the deadline at third reading. So I called in my colleagues from the lobby. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] For the new arrivals, I will repeat that we will vote in accordance with § 95 para. The application for a reduction of the period for third reading to seven days shall be made under the Rules of Procedure. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 253, 94 Members signed in, for 62, versus 17. This proposal was adopted. And I hereby conclude the second reading of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-002-022.u18	Good morning, honourable Members. We'll continue as we modified the agenda this morning. The next item is the point
