ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-002-008.u1	8. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - second reading We launched this item on 10 February at the 79th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The general debate has been interrupted because other points have been firmly placed for 16 hours. Mrs Lucie Šafránková has already taken her place at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur for the guarantee committee is Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. I remind you that at first reading we ordered this House press to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee, and that the press was directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 652/2 to 8. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate, which, according to my records, is registered as the first Mrs Valachová at the moment. She's not present yet. Next up is Mr. Ferjenčík. Is he completely absent? Do you want me to erase it? [[Yes.]] Completely. Mrs Richterová to continue the general debate on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-002-008.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the other press that is being discussed here is Press No. 652. Again, it is a law on aid in material distress, and it is so complex and comprehensive that it actually contains several different bases. First of all, it's the original proposal submitted by the SPD itself. Then there is Mr Marek Novák's amendment, and then there is actually a more comprehensive amendment to the committee. What is now, I think, very important to say that the original proposal for this press, like the previous proposal, aims to solve some of our country's major problems, to resolve the fact that not all children who come from disadvantaged conditions go to those children's groups or preschools for that so-called compulsory preschool year. That's reality. And I've already mentioned here today that it's very well-invested public money, so that children go to preschools and children's groups. That's an objective fact. And as far as he's concerned, unfortunately, our country doesn't bring it into the real world. Somewhere in some excluded localities, some troubled neighborhoods and localities, specially targeted kindergartens or children's groups work to help with this, but other places simply do not systematically work with the fact that preschool children can be the greatest and even cheapest success. There are quite extensive studies from America. I'm just going to put it as an interesting thing, which is that actually when the dollar is invested on time with those preschool kids, and ideally at two to three years, actually at the beginning of the educational process, it saves nine dollars, or rather brings nine dollars in the future. [[17.20 hours]] Why do I say that? Because this would be a huge target. To establish as a country the objective that all children from disadvantaged conditions will have a high-quality pre-school supply and will be able to compensate for some disability, some family disadvantages, thanks to the overall public support for pre-school care and education. I'm just gonna mention that unfortunately, the children's groups are in danger, which we talked about at the last House meeting. Unfortunately, this proposal may lead to the expulsion of children and families who are from different disadvantaged conditions from kindergartens and children's groups into so-called preschools. fiction of individual pre-school preparation, which will act more securely. And once again, the problem is objective, it's here, and I wish I could solve it, but by proposing the original draft print 652, we're not going to solve it, it just turns out that the clean restrictions, the withdrawal of benefits and the failure to report at that preschool age are most likely to be solved by the fiction of individual pre-school preparation, by circumventing that goal, the intention of children from disadvantaged conditions getting a chance at a more equal, fairer start by getting into a good kindergarten or a children's group on time. So that's one set of topics that was in the original proposal. And since this is still the basis of the discussion, and because it is also something that is being pushed away, it reflects the entire society, so I consider it important to stress it this way. Then it's the second circuit, and that's the removal from the unemployment record because of a violation of the treatment regime. This is a circle that sets up a group of people who, as if waving a pen, become a person who is not in material need and thus loses state aid. But what's really important is that it works like that today. So in this particular circle, the original design is redundant, I guess it's just a mistake, a mistake. Then there is another circle, which concerns the violation of the treatment regime in people who are sick and unemployed, i.e. in the register of job seekers. And again, there was probably no indication that since 2017, it is true that anyone who is sick and unemployed and is violating the treatment regime can be excluded from the aid again for six months, for six months, for half a year. So I just want to point out that we already have a number of things in this legislation that are already valid for a long time and maybe little is known. This was probably the reason why the SPD proposed this third topic for the original proposal. In the finals, however, it would mean an uneconomical approach of the state, and so if the original proposal had passed, which is still possible in this House, because that is the basis, the basis of the draft law, so whoever, according to how it is adjusted there, would have been sick for more than 730 days, would have drawn more money from the state than if the labour office had already given control to it. That's what I said it's been going on since 2017. So what do I want to show on the third theme circuit? Apparently, there's been a mistake. Then there is the original proposal, the original draft, the heading governing exclusion from the persons considered together or the so-called. the circle of persons considered together. And it is designed to help clients because they are entitled to higher support without e.g. The singles had to make a difficult request. The interesting thing is that this was described in the reasoning as being more stringent. So this is where the reality of how this point, the circle of persons considered together, was brought against each other by legislation, and how the reasoning was adjusted. And then there was the theme of foster benefits, and it's supposed to be newly considered income for entitlement to a housing supplement. Again, it is quite paradoxical that in practice the SPD proposal proposed an advantage for family foster parents. Why am I making such a fuss? To say that the very basis, the initial proposal, did not appear to have been based on the intentions of the petitioners, but, on the contrary, it was most likely simply not drawn up in a legislative way to match the intentions. What happened after that? Mr Marek Novák's amendment has been tabled and is largely similar in many respects to the approved comprehensive amendment from the Committee on Social Policy. So I'm based on the fact that this aggregate base is a real candidate, what can be actually approved. And from the way some arguments are made here, it occurs to me that these things are not premeditated about the consequences of what these proposed things can actually cause. And once again, we are on the material emergency aid law, a rather complex materiality that is coping with the fact that the cost of imprisonment, constitutions, and overrepression are often higher than when energy and time are put into prevention, to prevent those falls to the bottom through various situations where it would be better to bounce off and when what is being proposed here, and I will describe it, would mean a very long-lasting fall to the bottom. So what is there in this proposal that I believe is the real candidate for approval? For one thing, there is a concrete proposal to withdraw benefits of aid in a material need for housing and living for six months. And again, we're with that group of the very poorest people. Everyone would think, "That's how they can go to work." And, yes, for those who are skilled, I completely agree with the fact that the employment should be dealt with very consistently. And I was talking about the social enterprise law as a comprehensive solution to promoting employment for people who are otherwise very hard to employ in the free market. [[17.30 hours]] But in the proposal that we have here, it must be stressed that the benefits of aid in material distress are not only lived by people who would cheat, but also by people with disability pensions who have had bad luck to get sick in the wrong way for our social system and have so-called. disability pension without pay. These people, who are also dependent on this system of assistance in material distress, can be medically recognized by fully disabled people, no one disputes that they have full legal right to help in material distress, but they do not reach anything but her. And since the group is so broad, I would like to point out that unfortunately, it will also involve more and more old-age pensioners, again without entitlement to pay. So we have a group of different categories of people here, and they can be parents of little children, they can really be people who are capable and are not working, and that's where we're supposed to deal with it, but there are other instruments that we don't use very well, according to all I know, and then those groups of disabled and old-age pensioners who, if they don't meet certain conditions, fall into this system of assistance in material distress. And why, that's very important now, why I describe it this way. Because the proposal, which has a real chance of approval, proposes removing benefits of aid in material need not only for housing but also for living, for six months - and this is a very important thing I would like to stress - for inappropriate housing. And not at the hostel, but for a low-quality apartment or a garden cottage collapsed for permanent housing. And this is, please, the first thing I would like to stress very much. It is therefore a proposal that withdraws the benefits of assistance in material distress for any inappropriate housing other than a hostel. Who, then, is involved? Therefore, it also applies to seniors who own, for example, a garden cabin for permanent housing, and for the reasons that I have described, they are dependent on the minimum assistance of the state. The minimal aid that we all sometimes think is dependent only on the people at the very edge of society, but it is not. This is the case with a much wider group of people who have often had purely and simply bad luck. Those disabled pensioners are unlucky to get sick at the wrong time, in a way that did not give them the right to an invalidity pension, and they are young adults who develop a disease at such an age that they are no longer entitled to a so-called youth disability pension, but have not yet worked out the necessary years to qualify for the invalidity pension. And now that we have this idea of the broad and diverse group of people who are affected by this proposal, this seems to me to be a crucial moment to say: Do you really want this? Dear petitioners, this proposal simply withdraws this aid for housing and living, regardless of whether it is the man of work who avoids work - and we have to deal with it, but I suggest in other ways - and does not take into account the cases of disability or old-age pensions without pay. So what is really crucial in my opinion that this House should know that, if the amendment number 7034 is approved, for any other inappropriate housing other than a hostel, typically for a low-quality apartment or a garden hut that has been classified for permanent housing, those food benefits, for food, for food, for a living for six months will also be collected. And again, it's about the disabled and old-age elderly. There is a condition: if it is not corrected by inappropriate housing within a specified period of time. Again, it would make sense if there were more work to be done to provide the right to the landlord, but that's not the case. And the proposal is very long and elaborate, so I will mention that it is also thought of such things as to how long the sanctions will take to find a new place. And it's suggested that it's true for six months, even if you find a new place to live. So the punishment for living in something inappropriate and poor quality - which I point out, no one I know will voluntarily choose, it's simply a solution because these people can't get anything else - so the punishment will also apply when finding a new one. And I have no problem at all with that amendment number 7034 addressing what it describes in Section 33aa and 33ab, where it is actually the obligation to allow access to the dwelling and address the very quality, but what is being proposed, namely to receive the support for a living, the allowance for a living, for an inappropriate apartment, does not make any sense to me. There are two questions. The first one is where these people are supposed to go. And the other is - and I would have underlined it four times with a thick pencil - the hostels and other non-residential spaces, because the housing supplement and the living allowance remain. So there was a declared opinion here, a declared intention to put an end to the trade in poverty. Again, it is one of our country's biggest challenges to address socially excluded localities and to end trade in poverty is part of it, but it is not at all, at all, at all, and it is not even admitted in the debate on this proposal that this proposal will simply not lead there, it will merely withdraw the support of people who are poor but residential in housing, and leave it to residential hotels and other than residential areas. Then there's the condition of allowing access to the dwelling to control the quality of the housing. I've already said that I agree that it's okay to deal with this, the quality of living. And again, it's a three-month withdrawal now, unless local and social inquiries are made for it. But beware, do you know what all is considered not to let go? The missing name tag on the bell or on the door is also considered not to be release. So the insubordination is often entirely fictional, and it's purely because of not marking the front door. So today, for a period of three months, for such an unmarked non-release, people are denied three months of entitlement to support, and the proposal extends it to six months. I'm just gonna have to quote here how it's all formulated, because that's the very key thing to this proposal, which is completely sweeping up today's housing arrangements for people in need. It's Section 33ac, a section called Taking out an apartment supplement due to the inconvenientness of the apartment. And it says: "If it is not within the time limit set in accordance with § 33aa (b). The competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the competent authority of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of destination of the Member State of residence of the Member State where the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member It also states: "The procedure for withdrawing the housing supplement according to the first sentence shall not begin if the situation is corrected at least until the last day of the third calendar month following the date on which the time limit for correcting the situation laid down in Section 33aaa (b) has expired. 2." [[17.40 hours]] And now there's a clear description of what's going to happen. It's just a withdrawal of a living fee. But it's not clear what's going to happen to these people. So, as with the previous proposal, where we have discussed with a number of colleagues here what will happen to these people, how will their life situation be addressed and how will the situation around those unpleasant localities get worse, and we all accept that, we all know about the unfortunate reality, so this proposal does not count on it at all. They don't care what happens. It's just the withdrawal, the withdrawal. And once again, I'm stressing because it's awfully fitting that it's about withdrawing the housing supplement because of the inconvenientness of the apartment. So it's not the hostels and it's not the living quarters. Purely about the apartments. Or real estate colluded for permanent housing, such as a kind of garden cottage. It's just a huge thing. And now it is very important to say that the next big thing in this proposal is so-called. breach of the obligation arising from the newly introduced incapacity for work of persons who are not unemployed or employed but are subject to assistance in material distress. And we're back to who all those people in material distress can be with us. We are back to the fact that they are in fact children, seniors, disabled people, i.e. disabled people, who, as I have already said, are unfortunately granted in tens of thousands of cases, but so-called. without a paycheck, and then these people live off this support. And so does those who are dependent on care or caring for it. Caring for people who are infirm, with disabilities, with illness. It also involves parents on maternity and parental matters. What's going on? The fact that everyone would have to visit the Labor Office with every cold, with every medical illness and deliver within three days of not being able to attend the employment office and be at home when it comes to checking compliance with the treatment regime. And again: Why is this being introduced? I'm quoting the paragraph. Paragraph 17 of the proposal reads as follows: "Confirmation of incapacity for work for the purpose of benefits of assistance in material distress and confirmation of treatment or examination in a medical facility." So I thought, when I read the bill, that when it comes to confirmation of incapacity for work, it's about people who are job applicants. People capable of work. That's what's going on. But it's not. Paragraph 1 of this Section 17 reads as follows: "A person who is not a candidate for employment and who is temporarily unfit for work on grounds which, at the request of the insured person under the sickness insurance law, would be the reason for the decision of the attending physician to incur temporary incapacity due to sickness or accident shall be issued by the registered provider or another health service provider who provides health care in the event of this illness or accident to the person, at the request of the insured person, by a certificate of incapacity for work -' and, now, of course, by surprise - "for the purposes of benefits of assistance in material distress'. I don't know what's funny about that. Unfortunately, I am referring to the fact that, from my point of view, this is a completely absurd and illogical provision. We are talking about why to burden all employment offices and people who are not unemployed are not candidates in the register, but are for example. to parental, old-age, or disability pensions, and to force them to attend the office of work with a disability just because they receive benefits in material distress. And even the most absurd: Why force them to do so in children? And it actually means putting in place an inability to work for someone who doesn't work because he can't work. Why chase a doctor's paper and a child's illness into the office of employment? And the question is, who? Yeah, you can argue that the proposal says "on the challenge" that the employment office doesn't always have to use it. But it's actually a way to get these people who - I stress - can't work. It doesn't make any sense at all. And that's why I'm trying to put it in detail here and explain that without the justification of such provisions, the law can do much more harm than good. I will stress once again what this is about: a certificate of incapacity for work would be issued for the purpose of benefits of assistance in material distress to a person who is not a candidate for employment. And once again, I am stressing that the Labour Office can use a call for anything. Even in a way, it can come up with a different way of putting them around and putting challenges on the job. And that's where I think it's being used. But the Section 17 that I quoted to you, on the contrary, is completely absurd. And once again, I am aware of the objectively existing problem that people in job applicants' registers who are capable of working today are not sufficiently able to invite and address their situation to these interviews. And that's unfair. I acknowledge this injustice, and I want us to deal with it. But I don't understand why to put a stick like this in our authorities' hands, for example, on people in disability or old-age pensions who are dependent on material distress. And once again, I stress that the average income from the household's physical emergency is CZK 6,500 a month. For the household. So it's not enormous money that we're talking about here, and it's why a number of these proposals are being introduced, or it's proposing to introduce a number of these things. [[17.50 hours]] The other sanctions proposed to be introduced are that families would lose their entitlement to State aid for six months instead of the current three. And it's a newly supplemented § 3 para. 1 (h). I want to show him how incomprehensible it is and how hard it is to understand what such a big unsystematicness of this proposal is. It is Article 3 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 3 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) which reads: If a person is "a person who has been rejected or who has been withdrawn pursuant to § 33ac or § 45 para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 49 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The amount of the levy shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: So if I read this to you, I bet you're not gonna take anything out of it at all. Except this point, this piece in the text of the amendment means that people who have been wrongly granted a benefit because of what they may have reported as a part-time job, but only in the employment section of the employment of the employment office, but not in material distress, must, on the one hand, return the allowance illegally, that must be today and so it is, that is all right, but for six months they will lose the possibility of being that person in material distress and by cutting the pen they will stop being a person in material distress. So the motion for this kind of misconduct for six months completely eliminates people from the support as people in material distress. And I say again, we all wish we didn't have to have such people in our society, so that no one is poor, so that everyone has competence for quality work, so that everyone has a good education. But that is simply not the case, and we have a reality in which they now want to intervene in these amendments, and from the point of view of many, actually send a lot of people into execution - I will say why - and limit our functioning of the social network at all. This withdrawal for six months should also apply if no change in the situation affecting the amount of benefits is reported. What is a situation that has an effect? This is the situation, imagine, when a child ends his studies after 15 years of age, i.e. compulsory schooling. Of course, it's meant to be reported, but you can all imagine situations where these people aren't completely literate in all areas of today's life, and that not reporting changes may not always be intentional, and, secondly, losing for six months any possibility of support is simply very disproportionate when they have to always return an unduly received dose anyway. That's what's going on, and that's what's going on. Next, what can be another thing that will result in such sanctions? Failure to demonstrate anything at all within a time limit set by the Labour Office. Again, I have described here in detail that it is perfectly okay for the employment office to proceed consistently with people who are able to work and for some reason it causes them to work in black and legal work to avoid, and there is the possibility of documenting rather underused, but it is very problematic for six months to exclude families from entitlement to support because, for example, a single parent is unable to provide proof of the residence of the second parent of the child, or the residence of a former partner. And I want to point out, this is not an imaginary situation. These are real examples that are happening really. So a lady who broke up with her partner for various reasons and needs because the child is still small, state support, maybe she's exhausted her parental allowance and because she hasn't found a job other than shifts and she's a single-parent with a small child, she can't work shifts, so she's depending on, like, a year or two to help her in material distress. These are real examples that people are talking to me about, so if they don't prove the second parent's homework document on the child's challenge, they're gonna lose the entire possibility of support under this proposal for six months. I would stress that a three-month withdrawal is already due today for such misconduct. Similarly, there is a proposal for a novelty: the withdrawal of benefits of assistance in a material emergency for three months for not registering a child for compulsory preschool education or for poor kindergarten attendance. That's what this is all about in school, and that's what the sanctions are supposed to be for three months. And again, I've already explained here how important this quality preschool care is and how much of a positive factor it can be in balancing inequality. But how do you think it's gonna help that kid in the family if his mom or his mom and dad take out the help in material distress because of her irregular kindergarten attendance? Do you think that's the solution? That it would better match the child's chances for a straight start? A lot of people working with these families are worried that they're just gonna take care of the so-called family. fictitious individual pre-school care. The fiction of individual pre-school preparation will be safer. She won't be in danger of removing the help. This is simply a novelty proposed by this Amendment 7034, and it is something that this gradually built-up system of support and education, which many places introduce with great success and patience, is simply an ant work for a long time, so it would now be turned into a system of repression and sanctions. As an example of a city where children's groups use very successfully precisely for gradual social inclusion, I can mention, for example, Sokolov. And I want to stress that it works mainly on the principle of trust that moms from the disadvantaged community are telling each other how the kindergarten benefits their child, how it works, and that is why others want to put children in it. And the city's spread of the good news that this kindergarten works, they're good to the kids and they educate them, they raise them, and it works for the benefit of the kids, so the city is actively growing it so that as many people from different disadvantaged backgrounds can be convinced to volunteer to participate in this pre-school training. Why am I stressing this? Because they don't need the repression, they don't need the penalty, but they need a systematic, patient job to do it. And why, ladies and gentlemen, am I making this up to you? Because it seems to me that this bill wants to get around the path that is harder, but more correct, that it wants to get around the path of patience and lasting change by the very crappy sanctions. But since I don't want us, as a society, to bear the cost of repression of those higher spending on residential facilities, and because I don't want us to continue to be in the vicious circle of the ever-increasing number of excluded sites, I want to point out the things that are suggested here that there are positive ways that there are good examples and good practice in our country. A lot of municipalities can do it, only because they don't get the extra system support from the state, so they don't do it to the extent and as consistently as they might want to. [[18.00 hours]] And yet there is a new sanction proposed here, and that is the withdrawal of the housing allowance for inappropriate housing from the following quarter, and it is also proposed for six months. It is proposed that it be possible to apply repeatedly, i.e. to re-schedule the application, to do so only after the correction or removal, and it is further stated that only 80 per cent of the previous contribution is due in the case of removal. And that's something else that's actually part of this package of proposals for 122,000 households. 122 000 households in this country received in February 2020, 2021 (?) housing allowance. And I stress again, the housing allowance always goes into apartments, except sometimes it can also be a family house, which is also considered an apartment by the State Social Support Act. It is actually mentioned in § 24 para. 5 of the Act on State Social Support. This paragraph is important, so I quote it: "For the purposes of this law, the apartment means a set of rooms or a separate living room, which meet the requirements for permanent housing by their technical arrangement and equipment and are intended for this purpose under the construction law or are classified as an apartment. " And now, once again, we're talking about removing the housing aid from the apartment. The proposal doesn't address housing in the residential hotels, the real business of poverty. So when I sum up the things I've described to this draft and the amendments that are problematic there, it's first of all that he's going to drive children from different disadvantaged preschool conditions into the fiction of individual pre-school preparation. Then that there are several proposals that are redundant, whether it is the removal from the unemployment register due to a breach of the treatment regime that already works or which are inefficient, because those checks that have been in operation since 2017 and which allow elimination for six months are also valid. But when we get to the reservations that I am describing on Amendment 7034, we see that the core of this proposal is simply the withdrawal of housing support and livelihoods for all those who are dependent on material distress, without distinguishing whether they are dependent on material distress without payment, or also seniors without payment of old-age pension, and unfortunately it is an increasing number of people, so it is also the situation where people are outside the possibility of earning money mostly or also people on parental leave when caring for young children or caring for another dependent person. And now here's a proposal that suggests that we take out the benefits of that support for any inappropriate housing in a low-quality apartment or real estate, a hut collapsed for permanent housing, including the support for food, for food, for a living. And this isn't premeditated at all. In this proposal, this is a fundamental thing left entirely without describing what it will do. It doesn't really solve where these people are going, and it doesn't even solve the systemic incentive for the construction or reconstruction, it just deals. And I said that I wanted to describe the possibilities of a positive solution, because there are many countries of the world that are so stately administratively capable that they calculated that it would be more worthwhile to systematically support municipalities so that they could have enough finance for that tripod of work, housing and education, because it is prevention, and it will save on all those facilities that are very expensive and need when everything fails, whether it's those expensive prisons with those roughly CZK 2,000 per head per day, which unfortunately stands there, or whether they're expensive residential facilities like children's homes in case of child collection. Why am I describing this? Because it's not possible to start not with B, but with C or D and not dealing with A, the beginning. That enough offer really simple work. In turn, some municipalities have consistently addressed this, the work for technical services, help with cleaning and the like, but today they often do not pay for some of the people we talk about here because they are in executions. So, again, many of you know that employing a man in executions means a higher cost for a payroll accountant. If you have 10 to 15 people employed in technical services in executions, multiples, multiples, that means a whole new-time payroll accountant for a year today, that's more than half a million in costs for that community when it does it today. And now we are in a situation where instead of dealing with these contexts, employing people in trouble, a consistent solution for all capable people to go to work, because for them there will simply be some basic option - unfortunately, it is not in some regions today. And thirdly, so that we don't misjudge those who aren't capable of work. So instead of this distinction, there's a slam dunk for six months of everything, both housing support and basic livelihood for people who are disabled or caring. And once again, in addition to this withdrawal for inappropriate housing in apartments - not in residential hotels, but in apartments - there is still the proposed obligation to show incapacity for work for those who are not unemployed or employed, but only dependent on this assistance, and there is the possibility of chasing the doctor's paper because of the illness of a child who is objectively incompetent or because of the illness, for example, a person with a full disability pension. It's a challenge, but it can be used, and it's completely absurd. What is further designed to be introduced there. In addition, there is a great absurdity proposed concerning the burden of proof of the single parents' contribution to housing. I've already told you how difficult it is to prove to your parents where your ex-partner stays. But what is being proposed here is beyond all the absurdities that I have found so far in the bill. Imagine that not only will it not be enough to prove that the former partner, the other parent of your child, does not live with you, that he lives elsewhere, that is logical, even if it is sometimes very difficult, it is still understandable, but at the same time the person must live in another apartment. And living in another apartment means - you may not know that many of us - that if he lives in a hostel, in a social housing service, or when he is homeless, when he is completely without shelter, he will be counted into the family. [[18.10 hours]] And why is that a mess? Because that actually reduces the right to support, because there will be another person who can make money, but only theoretically. Only on paper according to this proposal. And the fact that, in fact, according to this proposal, people who are treated for addiction or temporary housing in a shelter should not, as ex-partners, but children's parents, in a way, are written off from the housing allowance, is simply absurdity, which is absolutely not justified there, and the fact that there is a condition for the person to live in another apartment is completely beyond my understanding. Another thing that also aspires to the winner of the prize for the most absurdity of the proposal is a thing that would fundamentally endanger the elderly. Seniors usually have problems with housing in large cities. Especially in Prague, they take advantage of this, it is sad, but it is a fact, at least they keep their housing, that the housing allowance is supplemented with a housing supplement. The way it works today is that the calculation works based on a kind of fiction of a living allowance. This is because the housing supplement is given only to people in material distress, and therefore the fiction of the contribution is introduced for these seniors to be in material distress. Now, this proposal, and it shows that it was written by someone who knows very well how the system works today, would make it impossible for this target group of poor seniors from large cities to combine the contribution and the housing supplement, because there is a proposed abolition of the life minimum for applications for housing allowance. I know that this is probably a rather complex design for many of you, colleagues, because the original law on aid in material distress is complex, but I am therefore saying and justifying this proposal because it is simply dangerous in this. It will endanger the housing of poor seniors from large cities. I consider it the third giant absurdity of this proposal, and I even believe that many of you who have signed the proposal do not know that it is there. To check that I'm giving you purely factually substantiated arguments, this is the 13th point in Part 2, the amendment to the State Social Support Act. We are still in Amendment 7034. The point is that in Section 27, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 3 In Article 27, the annulment of paragraph 1 does not affect the application of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 will prevent the combination of the contribution and the supplement to housing, thereby abolishing the life minimum fiction for applications for housing allowance. What I described before, the absurdity of a person staying together if he does not use another apartment, i.e. wherever he is, in a hospital, a shelterless asylum house, so he stays together, so unfortunately it is from the third point in part 2, it is also a modification of the SSP, again Amendment 7034, and in Section 7 para. 3 is at the end of the text of the letter. (a) the following shall be added: "if the parent of the child referred to in paragraph 2 (a). (b) the parts of the sentence before the semicolon lived as a species and mate or are still married; they are considered as a person jointly judged with an dependent underage child the parent to whom the child was placed in custody by a court decision, and now it is quite important: "a second parent must use another apartment. " There's an operation with the concept of an apartment again. Unfortunately, this absurdity is rather consensually approved by a number of Members and Members of this House, which is why I am trying so hard to draw attention to it because it would put a number of singles and singles, including those whose former partners are trying to address their situation. And that just seems unfair to me. Then there is one more thing - the cancellation of the return on the subsistence allowance after the refund of the pension granted. Now maybe somebody cut your ears a little, because it sounds uneconomical. Maybe you've made some noise. Cancellation of the return on subsistence allowance. And that's just uneconomical. I don't know why it's designed here. And I'd like to ask the petitioners again. It is the 16th point of Part 1, he refers to the law on aid in material distress, and again the same changeling 7034, and there is a hard saying: § 22 is deleted. However, this is a section which focuses mainly on old-age pensioners, who take some time for the Czech administration to measure the pension. The Czech administration has a period of 90 days and these seniors receive material distress during that period, then their pension is paid and paid. So I don't understand why there's a cancellation of that allowance for a living. The way it works today is that after the pension that the senior gets after the three months of retirement is paid back, he will return from the pension he received, the subsistence allowance from which he survived, what he had in the meantime to live. I don't understand why he's proposing to cancel this here. It's uneconomical, and that's the logical thing to do today. So the proposal would actually block this return, and it's not justified. I don't think anybody even noticed that it was designed there. What else is there? There is a further tightening of the obligation to work out 20 hours to maintain a minimum of living after six months of receiving a subsistence allowance. And again, my fellow Members, you who have experience with how public service work works, so I assume you know that this work is not equally available everywhere. Yes, there are quite a number of places, the possibilities of the public service work that people who have long been in material distress have to work off to maintain the minimum of life and not to fall into existential ones, but they are not really concerned about whether they get into the public service, whether they have at least time, and, as far as public transport is concerned, accessibility, accessibility. And now what he's proposing. It also suggests that the living minimum dose, which is about 3.5 thousand, maybe 3,800 new, would fall to the existential minimum of CZK 2,490 even in the processing of the 20 hours. Now, just to get back to what we're talking about. We're talking about 2 490 crowns versus, I think I'm right, 3,800 for a single-living person, and some 3,600 for a second adult in the household, where we're talking about a few thousand grand crowns for a month, and the proposal is to drop to 2,490 even when the 20 hours of public service are being worked off, if the employment office considers that the beneficiary could have a higher time. And again, how can the employment office conclude that there is no obligation that the sanction can only be imposed when the job has been offered to a person when it can actually perform it within the reach of its place of residence, and that is not secured there. So the public service is given as a condition that, after six months of taking a living allowance, you don't fall on the 2 490 crowns, and no one cares if the public service can actually be performed. [[18.20 hours]] Some people, for example, turned to me at the first level of disability, that maybe they didn't have a way to commute. But what really seems absurd to me is that here it is simply proposed to let the employment office conclude that the beneficiary could have a senior job. And to make it clear what I'm leaning on and that I'm arguing purely the paragraphs of the bill, I'm going to give you the quote from where it came from. This absurdity, which I already consider to be the fifth in my absurdity, is mentioned in section one of paragraphs 20 and 22, again the same amendment 7034. It states that in § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) the words "the Regional Branch of the Labour Office" shall be replaced by the words "through the Regional Branch of the Labour Office." The following shall be inserted after the word "active': "and shall receive income from this gainful activity within the meaning of the activity referred to in Section 3 (1): Article 4 (1) (a) (a) '. That's actually point 20. And then in point 22, the key condition is given. In Article 25, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "activity" the words "and are proven to be trying to make use of the additional possibility of increasing the income of own works pursuant to § 12 (1) shall be inserted after the word "activity." 1'. Again it is absolutely logical to want to motivate and allow really as many people to be involved in any kind of work. Of course, that's what we all want. But why do I draw attention to the practice, which of this amendment is not clear at all, that in practice - and I have actually spoken to many different types of labour office workers - many of these people are people at a low level of disability who are hard to employ and often have very low working skills and often low education. Therefore, for them, the public service often remains the only way to meet this condition of increasing the income of their own work in a more difficult accessible region. Again, I'm not standing here for people who can and objectively work black and cheat the system in this way. There - I've said it several times and I'll say it again - we should be more consistent. But what bothers me about this proposal and why I'm here in this way explaining what everything is wrong in my and my team's judgment. So I'm standing here because of people like this, first and second degrees of disability, who live in a remote village, who need to be retiring for several years, they're at the employment office. And because they live in a village, they are able to grow many things, they have small animals and they need - it is from life, from what I have collected about the functioning of the social system in the Czech Republic - and they need at least the little help, the contribution for a living. And these people perform the duty of the public service when they have it available when they get there by bus, when the offer is in the driveway at all. But if it isn't, they'll still get a penalty purely for not fulfilling it. I consider this to be the fifth most absurdity of Amendment 7034. We are now still on something that is very surprising from a legal point of view, and it is a proposal from another point of view, but also in the same amendment. What it says: Against the decision of the MPSV to waive the repayment of over CZK 10,000, it will not be possible to appeal or review it in the review procedure. What does that mean? I'm gonna try to translate it into a human language again from the way the law is written. This denies these people the possibility of preventing any unlawful decision. It denies the possibility of reviewing this in review proceedings, which is simply easier for people who do not have legal expenses. I will stress again, while the provisions of § 94 para. 5 of the administrative order and under this provision, the administrative authority - I am now quoting - is obliged to "save the rights acquired in good faith when deciding in the review procedure'. So the way it works today is that when someone gets paid a benefit where they think they're entitled to it, there's no evidence of bad intentions, so they have to pay it by 10,000, they set up payment schedules, and people pay back what they had paid and didn't have to pay. And over the 10,000, there's a pardon being dealt with today, and that's often the case. Now the proposal is actually presenting a reduction in the protection of these people. Avoiding the possibility of defending the rejected request for remission of over CZK 10,000 other than the action. It's just a big tightening up of access to people who don't have legal expenses. It may seem like a relative detail to some of you, but it isn't, because those unduly paid benefits are often due to the fact that the IT systems that manage those doses are not compatible and it's just really hard to figure out what you should report. If instead of this amendment, all the energy needed to ensure that these databases are compatible and that the system doesn't allow the benefits that are mutually exclusive, which are conflicting with each other, we might not even have to deal with this. But we are in a situation where the system is so imperfect that it allows you to pay conflicting benefits. And in those rare cases, when it happens, when it happens, people are being punished by the 10,000 penalty these days. They always pay back, and they are people in material distress. For them, it's huge money. However, the impossibility of reviewing in the review proceedings a rejected request to waive those amounts reduces the level of protection of these persons and will simply lead to unnecessary liquidation of these people. And now I'm really talking about people -- when I was looking for those cases where this is happening -- who work in protected workshops, they're people in that disability pension without pay, and they're not people who can handle our legal system. Moreover, from a legal point of view, it should be noted that the administrative rules - there I quoted the section 94 para. 5, according to which the administrative authority is obliged to safeguard the rights acquired in good faith when deciding in the review procedure - so the administrative order is a general legislation. This should not be turned off by an amendment that has not been assessed on the basis of the impact of regulation - RIA, which has not been examined for what it will do for these weakest and most vulnerable people. And again, here's where I found the examples of the situation in the sheltered workshops. [[18.30 hours]] I'm still quoting, again, so you can find it, esteemed submitters and submitters, it's 40th point of Part 1. Paragraph 77 proposes to add paragraph 3, which reads: "Against the decision pursuant to § 54 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And so that you can compare what's going on in Section 54, par. "The Regional Branches of the Labour Office are collecting irregular benefits and benefits provided at an incorrect rate and decide, in individual cases, to waive the obligation to refund these benefits. However, they can decide to waive the obligation to refund amounts higher than CZK 10,000 only with the prior consent of the Ministry." So that's today's insurance policy. That's today's adjustment. And that's canceled, and people's protection is decreasing. So again, we have an amendment here. I've quoted all the anti-arguments in those places. Unfortunately, the proposals are real. I was very surprised that such things were presented in the law on so - called aid in material distress. I believe that this is because the proposal is really very complex, very long, and I believe that it has not been done that anyone else has studied this proposal in this detail. And once again, I don't think that all the impacts on the people involved have simply been assessed. And once again, I stress that there must simply be a completely different approach to dealing with workable people, there I completely agree with what needs to be done in terms of rigour. I also mentioned that, on the contrary, the calls for documentation and attendance at the Labour Office could be used more frequently. Only you, esteemed colleagues, are pouring out with a bathtub and a child, especially people with different kinds of health disadvantages of a lower degree, to which it will very strongly turn out if it is accepted, and seniors in large cities. I will stress once again that preventing the combination of the contribution and the supplement to housing by abolishing the fiction of the living minimum will be the case for poor seniors from large cities. I don't think anybody thought it through. I don't think that's what this is about. In order to make no doubt about it, I'll just remind you, it was an annulment of § 27 para. 3. Now what about it? I have pre-shooted to you, my fellow Members, what makes everything a problem on the proposed amendment. And I, of course, with the broad team we've been working with, would like us to have a concrete solution to the difficulties. That is why I will now allow myself to justify the amendments that I have read so far in the system, and then I will report to them in a detailed debate. These are proposals that I believe would make it easier and more precise. As has already been explained here, from the perspective of a coherent society, a society that is supposed to work together for a long time is not the only solution to say: you do not live because you have bad luck, your housing is poor quality. Instead, we need to adopt a proposal for a way to get to a better situation. I just want to let you know what situations this poor housing can be in, because it is not really just excluded localities. They're old apartments, too. I'll describe it to you from the experience of social workers, what I noted about it, and then I'll say the solution proposal. The solution exists and is already proven in the Czech Republic. If we marry a woman with several children, a single child who lives in Prague, i.e. in a big city, it is quite common that she is a lady who only rented an apartment in worse condition because of several children. Typically, the owner refuses to invest in the apartment. At least the client paints at her expense and stuff. But most drawers don't work in the apartment. Imagine the situation where there's a lot of extension cords across the apartment. And if some of you are laughing, it's because you haven't consulted the social workers that I consulted on the bill. Despite repeated efforts to deal with the owner of such old apartments in Prague, it often occurs that the extension is simply to be solved by the lady herself and that she is to fix it all from her own. And now the point is, that's exactly the boundary situation. Will such an apartment be splattered with stretched extensions because two or three drawers are simply functional, considered inappropriate? It seems like a theoretical question to you, but the problem is that these poor people live in these very apartments, and they'll be in terrible uncertainty whether or not it'll be recognized by the office of employment. I just want to point out, I really think that in this way the bill has not been thought about what the practice of what the different shades of poor housing are. And for me, low-quality power lines in the apartment are a problem. That's a security problem, too. But at least these people live. The proposal could simply lead to the fact that because of - and now it's really important to realize the stress in which a woman like that lives with several children, it just leads to permanent stress: when they take away my children, because they won't recognize the apartment as quality. A new, fresh, typical lady will come to the local investigation just after school, and she'll be so terrified that this kind of low-quality power line has never seen her say, "The kids can't be there - and they go to the kangaroo." And I'm really telling you the concern that these people are dealing with and that the social workers are dealing with, what they're being supported, what they're being helped to tutor for children. And that's the way forward. To get the kids to graduate from this apartment, to graduate from school, and to live in something much better on their own. And just so they can at least finish school and know that they have a chance to get a better job, this belief gives them that they live in a normal, ungreged apartment, even if they're not good. And this is a threat to the proposal. [[18.40 hours]] Therefore, as a positive solution, I propose Amendment 6501, which concerns the so-called bail moppies, to put security in the apartment. It is a proposal that is written on the original bill and concerns what is a proven solution. The government and the labour authorities have already checked it out. And the so-called mop, the extra immediate bail aid, can be granted to make sure that the apartment, bail on the apartment. And why can it be a less expensive way to deal with housing emergencies? For all of us, for the whole company? Why is it cheaper? Because it is an expense that ranges from 10 to 30,000 crowns. On the contrary, any renovation of the apartment or solution of the whole apartment is simply hundreds of thousands of crowns. And it's millions for buying an apartment. Why am I pointing this out? We can say that we are only dealing with an ideal situation where no one needs any support, everyone is dependent on themselves, but I believe that we are not a society that wants to look at where this would lead. On the other hand, we invest considerable amounts in provisional housing, which are also asylum houses, which are also basically often kangaroos. Many children are there due to inappropriate housing conditions. And now here I am putting to you, colleagues, to consider the proposal of one way to expand the mosaic of alternatives and solutions that have already been proven by the very large research on many hundreds of families carried out by the labour authorities, it was research done precisely for the purpose of the government's assessment. That's where the people who got this housing bail kept the money to put security in the apartment, even after a year. It therefore means that this Amendment No 6501 allows for a cheaper effective solution to housing emergencies, for all of us simply more advantageous as for society and thus introduces, and this is actually the legal trick that is used in the proposal, in addition to the concept of material emergency the concept of housing emergencies. Why am I so thorough in talking about this? Because I'd like to convince you that we're going to implement this proven and proven thing as a system tool. What I am presenting is not an experiment, it is simply a functioning solution, but so far many authorities in our country are afraid to use it because it is not sufficiently methodically grasped. This amendment could be such a legislative anchor. If it were possible for our authorities to make more frequent use of the security support, the housing bail in the form of this extraordinary immediate aid, this could actually be a positive development, a reduction in the number of households in the hostels, and a reduction in the really unfortunate business with poverty that no one wants. But it would happen quite naturally and painlessly through this assistance with the payment of bail, security to the apartment. This possibility would actually allow a combination to allow people to make use of the savings they are capable of. When I consulted social workers in direct work, in direct contact in the field, they said they often save 10, 12,000 on bail, but then they just need 20. And if they got the 8,000 through this mop, that would be a real solution. I therefore recommend this amendment No. 6501. And I also point out that what is one of the most criticized things that we would all like to eradicate is high rents for low-quality apartments. And this is the solution. The moment the household has a chance to settle the security of two or three rents for a normal apartment, it gets out of that trap, from that carousel of expensive rents for low-quality apartments, where, just often, the security doesn't fold, because the owners know that these people don't have it. When I had the exact meeting with a client who was trying to save herself and needed only a part of the certainty to pay up, and how hard it was to receive this assistance from the employment office, and finally, when she received it, she kept the housing after a year, the lady works with two children in that apartment completely normal. Well, that's the goal, that's the dream, so with a little help, with that investment in this case, 8,000 crowns, the family moved from the residential hotel to normal housing. So this would support proposal 6501. At the same time, it would be a proposal that accepts reality that we're not excited about, but they're just not all capable of making that kind of savings. Unfortunately, a lot of salaries are so low that in some cases this is a more rational solution, it will cost the company cheaper than those high taxes and housing supplements. And since it's rational, I'm putting it to you to consider. The other proposal I want to justify is No. 6529. It's a motion to abolish school offenses. Why? Because it is problematic to set up school attendance benefits because the family would be punished twice for one offence. The sanctions are normally there today. There's a misdemeanor trial, and the loss of entitlement to benefits would add to that. This tightening-up that this proposal introduces would simply be a double punishment. And once again, let as many children finish school and get an education is the goal that I think we're going to get through the ant work, tutoring, systematic work with families, and also a bit of a change in access to certain types of schools, but we're not going to get to this desired goal, better school results, and greater school success for children from all families through this sanction. The second thing is, and I've already briefly mentioned, the problem of truancy in older children, those children in puberty. You probably have a lot of experience with teenage education, my kids are small so far, but you can't always count on teenage children to be able to handle them, and that family really is to blame for skipping school. And then punishing the whole family by removing the benefit, even if social workers, OSPOD and so on, are trying to solve the problem, does not make sense. And in these situations where it doesn't make sense, and this bill would still impose it, so it would simply be unfair and demotivating to my team's judgment and ultimately harmful to society. Furthermore, it is a measure disputed in relation to the new arrangements for distance teaching and it has been codified as a form of compulsory schooling. However, the proposal does not take into account that for a part of the families, especially in those excluded localities, which we should change by the patient and systematic work and get rid of, that it is technically difficult to participate in the distance forms of teaching. What's missing? Internet connection and other technical equipment for the implementation of teaching. Although, certainly, many, not just us, have tried to get as many computers into these families as possible, it's just the data, the Internet. And here again is something where there is such confusion: the proposal to withdraw for failure to fulfil the obligation, to fulfil it, but the State has not provided sufficient support. Therefore, the problems of schooling and other offences are not only addressed, but are also aggravated by the application of the fines imposed on food and housing benefits. And again, my point is to deal with these things in a long-term system and permanent way. And that's just not gonna bring this proposal. [[18.50 hours]] As regards Amendment No 7410, so I suggest we cancel the modification by releasing the whole of point 1. So what do I suggest? Release an adjustment supplementing the penalty for non-compliance with compulsory schooling by introducing a penalty for non-compliance with compulsory pre-school education. That's what I've already justified. This pre-school education is newly introduced as sanctions. I have already justified the problem of the double punishment for one error and the impossibility of always effectively addressing the problem of truancy in older children, children in puberty. That's just very hard. And so it seems that the standards that govern these situations contradict each other in this case, and the proposed adjustment is counterproductive in the finals. There, in the finals, the proposal would put these families into even greater financial, material, but also social deprivation. The next proposal is 7411. The reasoning there is quite simple. It's about backup time. And even according to the Ministry's opinion, it is constitutionally unconstitutional to automatically exclude those persons whose temporary incapacity to work has exceeded the maximum period of support in the sickness insurance scheme. The problem that the petitioners aim to solve in this case should be addressed primarily in the sickness insurance system, e.g. health check by a medical examiner or by a contract doctor of the Labour Office. In the same way, the labour authorities are currently working in practice on the persons concerned to apply their rights and to apply for an invalidity pension. So, once again, the point is where temporary incapacity for work has exceeded the maximum time you can receive support from the sickness insurance system, and, of course, this shows sometimes the long duration of disability pensions. But the proposal really doesn't make sense. Once again, I will say a simple reason why: because it would be easy to circumvent the proposed measure if the recipient of benefits stopped being temporarily incapable of work for one single day. So there's both a mistake in how it's formulated and it's most likely unconstitutional. - That's what I quote from the Ministry. So for this reason, I propose a launch and I present this launch in Amendment 7411. Then it is introduced by a proposal for notification - that is 7412. Again, according to the Ministry's opinion, this proposal is probably unconstitutional and, in fact, makes the payment of state aid subject only to the fulfilment of administrative obligations and, as it is written, it is not clear how reporting to the Labour Office and the submission of completed forms is related to the fact that the person is in material distress. And now - we're talking about a situation where the authorities should focus on the substance of the matter, on whether or not the person in question needs the help and not on whether or not she's given the right form. Why? It's just that we're not supposed to be the state where we bully on administrative details, but we're supposed to go to the core of the poodle. I described the poodle core: really dealing with people who are capable of the record, and they shouldn't be in it. This can really be addressed, and not put in place such a condition of fulfilling administrative obligations, when in the finals it may be a unnecessary burden for people with health disadvantages caring for other dependents or for people in retirement who also need this support. Then Amendment 7413 - together, the persons considered. I present this proposal on a proposal adopted on the Committee on Social Policy. Again - according to the Ministry's opinion, the proposed regulation will also have an impact on other jointly considered persons. And since these impacts have not been sufficiently evaluated, we propose to delete this point in order to avoid unforeseen impacts on third parties. At the same time, what's going on? At the same time, the principle of the burden of proof on the part of the applicant or beneficiary cannot be accepted, the principle of proof of where the former partner lives. And again, the practice is very sad. When I'm dealing with how the Office of Labour is applying this on its own evidence, it's not good. We should be careful that this law, if it had been adopted in this way, as it is proposed, would have gotten into a collision with the administrative order, which is Law No. 500/2004 Sb. So this is Amendment 7413 concerning the persons considered together. And what else is proposed? Amendment 7414. This concerns consent to the entrance to the dwelling. There, the law already allows the levy to be reduced or withdrawn if the applicant makes it impossible to carry out a social investigation. So that's an adjustment that doesn't need to be changed, that's working now. But what does the proposed modification do? She reduces the scope for consideration of social workers, reduces the possibility for so-called administrative discretion and can lead to completely absurd results. And by the way, these people wouldn't have to study the college they're studying in the future if we only wanted to make them look like vending machines. [[19.00 hours]] According to the proposal, the benefit would be withdrawn for half a year, the beneficiary would cease to be considered as a person in material distress, so that both the housing supplement and the subsistence allowance will be withdrawn, or both the livelihood and the housing, even in a situation where all interested parties would objectively recognise that the reason for non-leaving was completely objective and serious. They'd have to do it anyway, make it happen. That's how it's written without an exception. So that's why we're suggesting in proposal 7414 that we release it. What is another change, we propose in number 7415 to replace the words 'they will' with the words 'they can'. Again, if the competent authority had to withdraw the levy, if the local investigation is not allowed, this could result in a completely absurd situation. A benefit applicant may have a number of perfectly objective reasons why he didn't let social workers into his home at that time, and I've already described the possibility that all those social workers would recognize it, those present in the local investigation, so they would just have to take the benefit away anyway. So what's the solution? I propose in this amendment that there be a 'can be taken away'. So if it's not allowed, the patient loses the dose, but if they just acknowledge the personnel carrying out the local investigation that there was a clear and serious reason, they might take that into account. If the removal was mandatory, there would be no way to take account of the causes of non-release, even if humanly those officials could understand it in any way. And the next amendment is number 7416 concerning the reduction of the dose to three months. This is precisely the situation where a six-month withdrawal is proposed. After consulting many people, we consider this to be disproportionately strict. And actually, there's no limit to the time it can be reduced to, and we're suggesting a ceiling--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-091-02-002-008.u3	Well, it's 7:00, so I'll cut you off. I will therefore interrupt the 91st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and have a nice evening.
