ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u1	10. The draft law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on road traffic and amending certain laws (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended /German press 374/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as a House press of 374-9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Ladislav Kos among us and I ask that Mr Petr Dolínek comment on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u2	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President. Mr. Senator, as I mentioned, the last two days have been marked - with a few exceptions - by the fact that we are more or less in agreement with the Senate here. Here too, I would like to thank the senát. The debate in plenary was sharper, but I think that apart from the President of the Senate, who may not feel good about it to this day, we all talked about it, and thank you for that, so the Senate added practical things there. In the case of cyclists and their overtaking eased in the spirit of the amendment - which the Ministry of Transport will prepare, but has not yet passed - so he reduced the penalties for the violation and gave application from 1 January next year, what is definitely good. And like the colleagues in the House here, who added to the original carrier proposals for a type of driver's license for tractors, ambulances on motorways and the like, so the senators used this carrier to solve one thing that is essential, and I very much welcome it, and that is so that municipalities can order tows from the service roads. To be open and transparent, the reason the senators suggested is quite visually visible. You may have seen it on Czech TV, there has already been a report from the city district of Běchovice, which is the kind of communication that someone puts off trucks that they let stand there freely, and even described the trucks, so it is like offering free housing for homeless people and so on. Of course, all surrounding businesses have a big problem with this. On the basis of this particular issue, the Senate initiative was created, and I supported it on the ground that the municipalities could order towing in such places. And then, thanks to our approval, we found out how many other municipalities have called out that it really is a thing that will help them significantly, because these are things that are not visually visible at first sight, but often make life difficult for the residents, as well as businesses or companies that work in the village cadastrals. So thank you for me and I certainly support the resolution of the Senate that has been adopted, and I will not talk about the other things that are there. The last thing that is probably important is to mention that the original carrier was that, in preferential lanes for IZS and public transport, if a car does not belong there, it can be fined by the city police on the spot. That's the thing that was original there, and luckily it was preserved. I would also like to mention briefly what the Senate excluded from the material, and I am sorry, but I believe that if we explain this to the senators and my colleague Čižinský, they could be helped after the election so that it could get into the nearest possible law so quickly. Those were the tow trucks from the sidewalks. At first glance, it seemed rather negative - when someone is serving older parents, they are full of them, they need to stop on the sidewalk, because they may be carrying food, medicines, something, they could tow his car away. I understand that the protection would be appropriate, but we are - or, above all, Mr Mayor, Mr ChižinskČižinský and then others - thinking also so that we can tighten up those lying scooters, shared wheels and other things. In fact, this could really be done in order on the sidewalks to serve what they have to do, it is for pedestrians, especially for children for means of transport that are legal on the sidewalks. But I understand that the senát said no, so here I appeal that we would like this discussion to open up and we could resolve it so that in the future it can return to some law so that really the pavements and municipalities are not toothless and can maintain order in the villages on the sidewalks. Now it is often - not only in Prague, but also in other regional, district cities - almost impossible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u3	Thank you. I'd like to apologize, Mr. Ladislav Kos is not here, but Senator Michal Kortyšš and I would ask him to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I think everything has been said here. I think that this time the Senate is returning things or putting things into one that is pragmatic is from the experience of mayors, or mine as Mayor of Litomyšle. It's a thing that... the driving schools that were calling and saying that the automatic gearbox and the driver's test and the extension of this license would have a different impact, so we also understood that. As far as the overtaking of cyclists is concerned, it was agreed by one vote as it is written today, because we originally wanted to reject it completely, but by then putting in Mr Kos's amendment to mitigate the consequences of financial and restrictions, so I think that is something possible out of the impossible, I would like to say it or vice versa. Otherwise, we put in a thing that allows paramedics who are... care for the necessary needs, so those people who can stop where doctors are entitled today. I think it's also right that it's spread. When it comes to removing the wreckage, as Deputy Transport, I've been dealing with a truck that's been on the Road Administration and Maintenance for ten years, and no one's been able to get a Polish truck... and I'm not able to take it out. And to do it by dragging it to the parking lot, and calling on whoever pulls it away, and then ruining it, that's what it looks like to me. [[He's gesticulating his hand over his head.]] So this is right, and I think it's great. And as far as I'm concerned... I would recommend that the date of entry into force of the Act from 1 July 2021 be postponed to 1 January 2022 in such a way as to ensure all the items belonging to it, i.e. fines, which they are, and to be laid down in the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u5	Thank you, too. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Bauer, want to comment on the proposals tabled, the Senate's amendments? He's not here, so probably not. I am opening up a debate on this point and I have Mrs Zuzana Ožanová on behalf of me. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself a very short recapitulation. The original proposal concerned one single thing. Mr Dolínek's law concerned that officers should be able to collect so-called block fines for riding in reserved lanes, such as a reserved lane for buses, cyclists or taxis. From this original proposal came a conglomerate which is unprecedented, sorry, we returned this law back to second reading. In the end, my colleague forgives me for the overtaking of cyclists and that the driver must pass at a distance of one and a half metres. I say it stuck because - let's remember - the law is already dealing with it. And there's something stuck there that's already been expressly stated by law. [[17.50 hours]] I am sorry that the House approves things that are already in the law. I'm sorry I'm gonna have a prescription for holding a pencil someday. Please, I would like that not to happen next time, but the original proposal is much worse than what comes from the Senate. The original proposal - the translator pardons - forgot all about the penalties for overtaking, when it is prohibited by law. This was mentioned in Mrs Matušovská's plenary, which told you 5 000 to 10,000 plus 6 to 12 months of prohibition of proceedings. But the House didn't listen because of the cyclists. Maybe sometimes it's good to listen to the debates, too, so that the Senate doesn't have to really, I'm sorry, fix our stupidities. I'm just sorry the Senate didn't pass the motion to dismiss by one vote. I'm sorry, Senator, but that's a real shame, because The House was a big amendment to Act 361 of 2000, which dealt comprehensively with the problem of road traffic from beginners, from changing the point system, when everything could be discussed properly. Everything could have been properly discussed under this law, however, given the way this House is taking place, this did not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in favour of this change at all being in this law. I'm a person who's been dealing with traffic accidents for 15 years, and I know there's another way to deal with it, that there's Section 4 letters. (a) this law. However, the Senate version is considerably better than the House. I myself will not vote in favour of any version, but I must say this out loud: If you want to support this, I will ask for the Senate version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u8	Mr President, Ministers, fellow Members, colleagues, I am both the driver of the car and the cyclist. Unfortunately, I wasn't here last time I passed this law, but it was approved in that covid period. But that is why, through Mr President, I would like to address you now, Mr Dolínek. You're from where? I just consider overtaking bikers at a distance of three and a half feet as total discrimination. And I'm asking, is it a foot and a half from the center of the bike, or is it from his elbow? I'm from Valachi. There are roads that are four meters long. When a cyclist rides half a meter from my edge, my elbow is three feet long when I'm supposed to go around him, I'm never gonna get past him. I confess, I passed a man on a bicycle this weekend, it took half a kilometer, and I confess, I thought of you. But the thoughts weren't nice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u9	Thank you. No one else is enrolled in the debate. Mr. Válek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I think the goal of all of us should be to protect those who are weak and who are at their worst. Of course, cyclists are involved in traffic and are, of course, at a disadvantage from motorists. Just if they bring in an emergency patient who was involved in a car accident, one was a cyclist, one was a driver of a motor vehicle, it's always worse for the cyclist. For vehicles that are driving behind us, we are also talking about safe distances and there is nowhere to define what safe distances are, which is why I think it is necessary for us to legally protect cyclists so as not to endanger them. I do not think, through Mr President, that Mr Holík lost a piece of his life when he had to go half a mile to see a cyclist. It is correct, it is decent, and the law has had the effect that the Member, through the President, waited and then safely ran over the cyclist. [[Reactions from the O.R. to the slip.]] And that is the objective of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u11	Mr Holík, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u12	Pardon me, through Mr President, for Mr War: It is set at a safe distance, it is two seconds, two seconds of speed, so at 60 it is different than in 90, but it is always two seconds. First of all. And second of all, yes, I'm up for it, I say I'm also a cyclist, cyclists should protect themselves, but a meter distance should be enough. What's the difference between a cyclist or who's riding a scooter, who's riding a bouncer, who's walking? We only focused on cyclists. Don't be mad at me, I won't raise my hand for this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u13	Thank you. There is no one else registered... is, Mr. Mr. Jiří Kobza. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would just complement the previous speakers, because, as has been said, we focus on cyclists, on the protection of cyclists, but there should also be something in that law that would make the cyclists feel better about being disciplined, because it is primarily about their life and their health. And then I would also like to remind you, because I live in the countryside and there are a lot of horses, that some of the same law should also take account of a rider who from time to time has nothing but a road to cross and have to cross the road between the cars. And it's really not easy with a horse, because I'd say a driver of a motor vehicle who doesn't know what that horse can do when it gets scared, so of course, it threatens the lives of not only the rider, but also the others. So I think it would really be worth these two points, that is, the discipline of cyclists to really be obliged not to drive more than half a meter from the sidewalk, and the protection of horse riders that they should be taken into account there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-014-010.u15	Thank you. If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on road traffic and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, pursuant to House press 374/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 374/9.' [[Road Traffic Act]] I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 88, registered by 146 Members, for 97, against 8. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. [[18.00 hours]] I'll read the apologies. Mr František Vácha apologizes from 19 to 19 today (?) for reasons of personal and Mrs Jana Levová apologises today from 9 to 13 and from 18 to the end of the day for working reasons. Since we have 18.00 hours per minute, I'm interrupting until 6:00 p.m. when we're discussing a fixed point. [[The hearing was not adjourned.]] We've got 18.00, and we can move on to the hearing.
