ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u1	3. Proposal for a law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union rules in the field of invasive non-originating species /German press 731/7/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as the House Press 731/8. The information from the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Once again, Senator Zdeněk Nytra will be our guest, and I will ask the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to take his place at the rapporteur's table. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] First I will ask the House for peace and then I will ask the applicant, Mr Richard Brabec, the Minister of the Environment, to comment on the resolution of the Senate and the proposals put forward by the Members. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr Senator, I just wanted to take a step back from the fact that this is a bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of EU rules on invasive non-originating species. It was sent to the Senate. In the Senate, the discussion concerned, in particular, the part which was not entirely related to the original law or the proposal, because it was mainly related to the change of the so-called hunting law, or hunting law, and the reason for which the draft law was returned to the Senate is precisely the change of the law on hunting, when, during the discussion of the material here in the Chamber of Deputies, an amendment was adopted, which is the abolition of one of the last amendments to the law on hunting, which was implemented in the context of the so-called bark amendment to the forest law published under No. 314/2019 Sb., which aims to limit the damage caused by wild animals to forest growth. This amendment has not yet taken effect, so it should happen in November of this year. It must be admitted that the adopted amendment implements this repeal from a legislative technical point of view not in a completely perfect manner and that the practical fulfilment of its purpose may not be achieved. The Senate therefore adopted its own amendment, which seeks the same, i.e. the abolition of the amendment to the Act on Hunting, but it does so in a formally correct legislative form. So I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt this law in the version returned to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister of the Environment. I will now ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to comment on the Senate's changes. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, once again a good afternoon. The minister has already told most of it here, from the history of how the law on non-invasive species has become a hunting law. There's only one problem. Mr Dolínek's amendment has been effective since 1 January 2022, and this takes effect on 28 November 2021, so the amendment is long for two and a half pages, but it only deals with the fact that it returns the originally deleted and Mr Dolínek's anticipated return of the text to the hunting law, so it is being reloaded here. In other words, in a very simple way, who voted in favour of Mr Dolínek's amendment at the third reading, should vote in favour of the Senate version of this law at the moment, which I would also like to ask you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, Senator Zdeněk Nytr. Will I ask Mr Ondřej Babka if he wishes to address himself as rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on the Environment? Yes. First of all, wait a minute, Mr. Ambassador, until your colleague allows you to have room at the pitch. [[A Member of the Excellent Speaks with the Minister of Finance.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u6	Thank you, Mr President. So I would probably just underline the words that have fallen from the mouth of my previous speakers here, and that is that I would speak for the adoption of the Senate version, because the Senate version merely regulates the legislatively well adopted House proposal. So I'm asking the House to support the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u7	Thank you. I shall ask that same thing to Mrs Monika Oborná for the Committee of Agriculture if she is interested. He's not interested. In that case, I am opening the debate and Mrs Dana Balcarová is the first to be applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present an opinion that is not only my opinion but also the Pirates' MP's. We did not support this amendment here in the Chamber of Deputies when it was approved, although we are aware that invasive species need to be regulated in some way, because they threaten the biodiversity of our landscape, and it is not only animals but also plants. What we were missing was a national list of species that is wider, or there are other species than the European list that is part of the legislation. And then there was an amendment, which was now mentioned here, which actually deboned the earlier amendment to the Hunting Act, where the changes that were necessary to remedy after the barking calamity were necessary. So I think that the amendment has gone in the wrong direction and will not do well to the Czech forests. And I wanted to ask Minister Brabec: I actually very much welcome the fact that the Ministry of Environment is preparing a decree where the Czech species are included, there is a mink American, which is a great predator, so it is a thing I welcome, but I do miss some other species that are not listed there, here are a) to f), so it is six species, but I miss, for example, a deer sis, which is a non-originating species and is very threatening for our deer European in the localities where both of these species occur. The deer is genetically threatened by the European deer, and the localities where it is found are multiplying very rapidly, so it is assumed that within 20 years it will completely push out the European deer. I see this as problematic and, in my opinion, should be kept only in the fields. So I wanted to ask the minister why there's no sika deer on the list, and then, there's only animals, why there's no plants. I was here when we discussed this in the House, talking about an alpine mob that is really causing problems both in the Krkonoše National Park, in the Jizera Mountains, where it creates huge crops that threaten our fragile highland flora. So these are my questions to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u9	Thank you, Mrs Dana Balcarová, now Petr Bendl, who has entered into the debate on this matter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, I will try to be brief, but I must say a few words about this material. I think about the Act on Invasive Species, which we eventually supported with the knowledge that Siku needs to be dealt with. I am deeply convinced after discussing what is happening with experts, the link between the European deer and the sis, how they mutate us and actually crowd out the European deer. This is certainly not a good thing, and I think it is for the future Chamber of Deputies and representatives of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture to debate whether or not to take this seriously. However, the Senate returned this material to us because we sent basically pasquil. [[tho]] When we look at the effectiveness of the individual ones - not only in the law, but also in the stickers, it was logical that The Senate, thank God, has been concerned about this and actually brought it back to us in a form that is still acceptable, because it is not possible to approve it in a form approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Whoever respects the legislative process a little and sees the specific wording of the bill as it passed through the Chamber of Deputies, then has to admit, thank God the Senate has given it back to us. The Senate is much more concerned with the law and the substance of the Act on invasive non-originating species, because we are witnessing billions of damage that is happening today and daily in nature, farmers and farmers in the woods are experiencing, where they have to see the damage done to them by the animals there. [[Which one?]] And all of this is enhanced by the crust and everything that has to do with it. Unfortunately, this debt has been refused by the Chamber of Deputies - and I must say, the coalition of the government. We, as the opposition, have proposed here several times that the Hunting Law should be properly discussed by the House, because the damage that is happening to forest and field economies is really in astronomical amounts, both for private owners and for state property. Unfortunately, there was no government will to seek a reasonable, acceptable compromise in order to seek solutions that would reduce the damage. This too is a debt that the next Chamber of Deputies will have to resolve in the future. It is just a sad memento that the Minister of Agriculture promised almost an honest word at the Senate meeting that the draft hunting law will pass through the House, unfortunately it did not happen, and, as I say, it is to the detriment of not only the state budget and the budget of private individuals who manage on land and in forests, but also, of course, to the detriment of nature, and I am sorry twice. We could look for solutions, we could discuss them, or we discussed them for a long time, but ultimately, thanks to the government's unwillingness to discuss the third reading we were in, we returned by decision of the Chamber of Deputies - although I did not agree - back to the second reading so that we could discuss it properly. As a result, we have nothing, and the government is not willing to deal with this situation. I hope and firmly believe that the next government will find the courage to describe this situation as many senators have done. And I recommend reading not only what the senators said for the civil democrats, but also the others, because the situation is really trivial and abundant animals make the situation very difficult for us. Let's hope the next government solves this. With a heavy heart I will probably support the Senate version, because the MP is wrong and the invasive law brings a number of good things about which I think they should go through the Chamber of Deputies, but I am convinced that not only the invasive law, but also the hunting law must be brought back as soon as possible or the Chamber of Deputies should return as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u11	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. That was the last one entered into the debate. I said, who's applying from the scene? Yes, I see. Mr. Babka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Unlike my previous speakers, I would really like to thank the senators, because what we completely failed to prepare here in the Chamber of Deputies, they have technically adapted and corrected what was not quite right. I also think that this standard needs to be approved. As far as hunting law is concerned, I am convinced that the future Chamber of Deputies will receive a material that will reflect on the one hand the need for hunters as such and, on the other hand, will reflect matters relating to the conservation of nature and also the damage caused by animals both on forest and on agricultural growth. So I also intercede to approve the version that came here from the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u13	I thank Mr Kotta for his speech. [[♪ Grandma ♪]] If no one checks in, I'm asking for final words. This is the Environment Minister's final statement, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u14	I consider it polite to answer. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I consider it polite to answer the questions that have fallen here. I'd just make up for a little misunderstanding. Madam President Balcarová here spoke of a deer siko. I'm sure he's right that he's causing damage. However, it is a matter of the Ministry of Agriculture's decree on the law on hunting, it is not some national list, so the deer sika would have to be included in a specific decree issued by the Ministry of Agriculture as a hunting invasion species. And as far as plants are concerned, if there is an agreement that there are other invasive species that will cause some problems and are not on the European list, then the law provides for a general authorisation by the nature conservation authority to decide on a specific regulation at local or regional level. Maybe that's what's going to happen to the lucky guy. On the contrary, I think it gives us a really free opportunity to respond regionally to a particular species. That's for clarification and otherwise I'd ask again to pass the law as it came from the Senate. I'm sure the Senate did a good job in that particular detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-003-003.u15	Thank you. The Senator has not submitted his final statement, in which case we may proceed to the vote under Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies. I repeat once again that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. I'm gonna go on, I'm gonna wait a little while. I'm signing you all off, I'm asking you to register. Please log in with your ID cards. A colleague of Farský found a note in front of the O.R., here in front of the door, 2,000 crowns, so he's here. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] Whoever lost her has to sign up for her. There's nothing I can do about it but say what my colleague Farský told me. In the meantime, the number of applicants has stabilized and I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union rules on invasive non-originating species according to House press 731/7 as approved by the Senate under House press 731/8." I've started voting number 33 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 33, registered 156, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that the bill has been approved, we have adopted this bill returned to the Senate. Before we go any further, I'll read some more apologies. Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamáček apologizes and Marek Výborný from 16 a.m. to 18 p.m. for work reasons. The next item is the item number
