ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u1	536. Information of the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister to the planned journey of Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček to Moscow The motion that has fallen here to act in a secret regime has not yet been made, even though it has been signaled, and I ask the plaintiffs if they are making such a proposal. Vice-President of the Government. [[Announcement to the organizational department.]] I am sorry, President Jurečka has proposed non-public negotiations, so in that case I will repeat the procedure that the Chamber of Deputies has and with priority rights Vice-President Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would just like to point out that if the House is to receive complete information, then information that is not public, or that has been obtained, or that has been heard at meetings that have been under some kind of secrecy regime will have to be communicated. That means the House will work with classified facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u3	Thank you, and please pay attention, because the proposal on this point was accompanied by a proposal for a private meeting by Mr Marian Jurečka. In the case of such a proposal, it is necessary to distinguish between a simple non-public meeting and a non-public meeting to discuss classified information. There is only a shorthanded report on non-public negotiations if the House has acted on it, I repeat pursuant to Paragraph 68 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. Information on the outcome of the vote shall not be published in electronic form in the case of non-public negotiations pursuant to Section 76 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on Rules of Procedure. The grounds for non-public meetings of the House shall be served on Members and written proposals shall be submitted only in paper form, not electronically - §120e of the Rules of Procedure. In the case of negotiations on classified information, the Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence shall apply. Where a speaker, a member of the Government or a Member wishes to talk about classified information, it is necessary to notify it in advance, including the level of confidentiality of the information. The President shall subsequently adjourn the meeting at the necessary time for a meeting with the Security Service of the Chamber of Deputies. In the vote on the proposal for a non-public meeting or part thereof, we shall act in accordance with Rule 56 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The meeting is usually public. On a proposal from a government or a Member, the House may decide that a meeting or part thereof is not public. Mr Jurečka suggested that the meeting, i.e. the whole meeting, should not be public. [[Announcement to the organizational department.]] Sorry, this item at the meeting wasn't public. The whole point, not just parts, not meetings. I'm sorry. So we're going to have to vote on this because we're going to be discussing issues related to state security. The motion for a resolution is - so I ask for the attention of my colleague, before the vote, of course, then I will repeat it, but now it is information. The Chamber of Deputies declares that, at the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, it declares that the item of negotiations is not public, that is, this one, which has been newly included - 536, and this is what we would vote for. In the event that a proposal be made pursuant to § 68 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure on non-public negotiations have been drawn up, and we will also have to vote on this. That is where we would vote that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to obtain a shorthanded report, with the fact that it will be or will not be published. It is necessary to specify this, this has not yet been done. So we're gonna have to deal with that proposal. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior reporting. One moment, Mr Vice-President, I am yet to provide information, and we are not yet voting on any of the parts that I have proposed. And then we'd decide what to do with the shorthand report. And now there's another point that we have to decide. I'm still reading information so we all realize what's going on. Then the question is who will be present in the hall. If a suggestion is made that there should be someone else - if there is a shorthand report, then we must allow the reporter to the meeting here in the hall. That would be decided by the vote. And now there's another - participation of other people. If such a proposal is made, it did not contain the proposal, the positive one that was here, who was to be present. Now I'm not saying that my colleague Jurečka didn't give an example, he said three people, but now we're going to have to talk about specific names that we would then vote on. If the meeting or part thereof which has been declared non-public, it may be attended by the President of the Republic, by members of the Government and other persons, in addition to the Members of the Republic, or in the Chamber or in the places reserved for the guests, the public and the representatives of the media, only with the consent of the House. The House shall decide on the participation and presence of other persons at the meeting by a vote without debate. This means only a proposal, without a debate, then the vote is taken. And then it has to be named those who will, and then a 15-minute break is announced to ensure technically that the meeting isn't really public, which means that we're not going to take a record of it, or we're going to take a record of whether or not it's going to be recorded, whether or not those people who have been individually or en bloc approved... Do we understand each other? I'm asking if everyone understood the information I submitted. [[General agreement.]] We will therefore proceed individually and report with priority rights - we are still at the public part of the meeting, so I would like you to take your seats! - and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u4	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm gonna try to fill in what didn't come up in this proposal. If we're talking about the level of secrecy of the documents that were going through the hearing, that's where the documents came up to level T, that's classified. [[15.40 hours]] If we're talking about the possibility of taking a tape or video or any recording, I don't think that's possible, because we don't have at least a stenographic recorder with this degree of clearance, so I suggest that it be without a record and without a screen recording. As far as the participation of other people is concerned, it seems logical to me that they are prepared in the foyer to attend the meeting by the directors of all three services, i.e. the BIS, the U.S.I. and Military Intelligence, the state's supreme prosecutor and the police president. This is the five persons outside the Chamber of Deputies that I propose have the opportunity to attend this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u5	Okay. Then we'd have complete information about that and the proposal. This means that the meeting would not be public, without registration, without a record and with the participation of five other persons, that is to say, the directors of services, the supreme prosecutor and the police president. And they have to vote individually, because the thing is... Mrs. Černochová with priority rights, there is no club president here, I have an announcement. [[The noise in the Chamber persists, a number of Members have left their seats in the benches and stand.]] Quiet, please. [[raised voice]] I'll give the chairwoman of the committee a word, but when it's quiet here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u6	Yes, Mr Vice-President, thank you. I have priority rights for President Stanjura. I just wanted to point out that if we're going to act to level T, then we should hand over all the technology we have on our desks and cell phones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-04-ps2017-098-09-001-536.u7	Yes, we will do this only if we vote in favour. All right. If there is no further information, no one is questioning the information that I have fully submitted here under the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the various proposals. I'm gonna ask you to take your seats. We are therefore voting now on the proposal for item 536 98 to be a non-public part of the meeting. I repeat: paragraph 536 of the 98th meeting, we will vote in favour of the non-public part of the meeting. We're going to vote in the number 291 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 291, 185, for 166, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Point 536 will be a non-public part of the 98th meeting. So now we're gonna vote that there's no shorthand entry, okay? We're going to vote in the 292 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? Don't take. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 292, present 185, for 159, versus 6. This proposal has also been adopted. So we don't have to vote on the need for service here. That's how we solved the House workers. Attendance of other persons: it was proposed to be present in addition to the President of the Republic, the Government and Members who have access to meetings at any time to be present: Jan Beroun, Director of Military Intelligence, Marek Šimandl, Director of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Michal Koudelka, Director of the Security Information Service, Pavel Zeman, Supreme Attorney and Jan Švejdar, Police President. We will vote individually. We will now vote in vote number 293 on the presence of the Director of Military Intelligence, Jan Beroun. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 293, 185, for 175, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the presence of Marek Šimandl, Director of the Office of Foreign Relations and Information. I've started voting number 294 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 294: 184, for 172, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the presence of Michal Koudelka, Director of the Security Information Service. I have begun voting number 295 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 295, 184 for 166, against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is the participation of Pavel Zeman, the Attorney General. I've started voting number 296, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 296, present 184, for 172, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now we will vote on the presence of Jan Švejdar, the Police President. I've started voting number 297 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 297, 184 for 171 Members present, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. Before I interrupt the meeting for 15 minutes, I will once again draw your attention to how classified information is handled. Please note that according to § 65 para. 2 of Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence, as amended, anyone who has or has access to classified information shall be obliged to maintain its confidentiality and shall not allow access to it to an unauthorised person. Any breach of this obligation will be dealt with in accordance with applicable legislation, i.e. criminal law. Furthermore, in the course of discussing classified information in the Chamber, there may not be a threat or leak of classified information, so there cannot be devices in the Chamber allowing recording such as mobile phones, laptops, so-called smart watches and the like. Only persons fulfilling the conditions of access to classified information may also be present in the Chamber, and I will now interrupt a meeting for 15 minutes, requesting that you collect your mobile phones, laptops and other technical equipment, and please cancel the television broadcast that is in the system, and that information that will be in the classified mode can be secured, including the removal of the galleries. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] I'm interrupting the meeting until 16.05. [[The sitting is suspended at 15.49 pm.]] [[The meeting continued at 16.05 a.m.]] This part of the session of the 98th meeting was declared non-public by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and is not accompanied by a stenographic record.
