ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-009-014.u1	14. Proposal for the establishment of committees of the Chamber of Deputies The Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, must establish a mandate and an immune committee, a petition committee, a budgetary committee, a monitoring committee, an organisational committee, an electoral committee, a committee on European affairs and other committees on which it shall act. I remind you that we have already set up and established a mandate and an immune committee. During the last parliamentary term, the following committees worked: Economic Committee, Constitutional and Legal Committee, Committee on Security, Committee on Defence, Committee on Social Policy, Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Committee on Health, Committee on Environment, Foreign Committee and Agricultural Committee. Now I beg you for your suggestions. I am opening a debate in which I do not see any registration, so I am ending the debate. We shall proceed to the vote on the following resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies shall set up the first Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Budgets, the Supervisory Committee, the Organising Committee, the Election Committee, the Committee on European Affairs; II. the following other committees: Economic Committee, Constitutional and Legal Committee, Committee on Security, Committee on Defence, Committee on Social Policy, Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Committee on Health, Committee on the Environment, Foreign Committee and Agricultural Committee.' Whoever agrees with this proposal, in the vote initiated, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In voting number 13, 192 Members and Members voted in favour of 186 of them, against none. The motion for a resolution was approved as submitted. I'm done discussing this point. The next item is the item
