ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1025/ - second reading On 19 February 2021, at the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we agreed to a proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1535. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of the plaintiffs of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová. I ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová if she wants to speak at the beginning of this second reading. You want to get off, so Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I very much hope that this law will be dealt with quickly. As you know, we have jointly submitted a comprehensive proposal to the Government, which was tabled by Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Sklenák and Mrs Aulicka. I am very pleased with this comprehensive amendment because we have actually worked it off together, not only on the government's plan, but also on the tripartite level. This means that it is very honest and discussed with both trade union representatives and employers' representatives. As far as the parameters of this amendment are concerned, it is so important that there is a well-established system that draws on the experience of Antivirus. The new amendment amends several fundamentals compared to the original government proposal. However, the amendment adds that the government's regulation may limit the contribution not only territorially but also sectorally. Furthermore, the start-up may also be limited by setting out indicators by which a group of employers entitled to a contribution will be designated. Now, as this should all work: the employer will pay wages - very important - in case of obstacles on his side. Thus, it will not be about the payment of support by employees through employers, as is the case in the original government proposal. If the employer receives a contribution, he must pay employees a wage compensation of at least 80 per cent of the average earnings. This means that in some cases, it will pay employees a higher compensation than is required by the Labour Code today. Just for information, I remind you that today the Labour Code, depending on the type of obstacle at work, allows a range of 60 to 100 percent. In the event of a crisis, we will thus protect workers from a major fall in income. [[15.00 hours]] The amount of the allowance received by the employer from the employment office will be 80 per cent of the costs, i.e. compensation for wages and compulsory contributions. That's very important. The employer shall send an overview of the costs within 20 days of the following month to the employment office, which, after receiving this summary, shall send the allowance to the employer within eight calendar days. For example, if the employer sends the March cost of the employment office already on 5 April, he will receive a contribution within eight days at the latest. I can tell you after experience with the Antivirus program, remind you that today we manage to process Antivirus after that one year in the order of four or five days. It's different from the county. Of course, there are regions where the crisis is much deeper, such as Prague, because tourism or hospitality is badly affected. However, even those eight days will be quite sufficient time. The employer will then use the allowance to pay the employees. This contribution may not be a reimbursement of costs, but the employer may first receive a contribution and then pay employees compensation. I see this as very important from a cash flow point of view, and it turned out from experience with Antivira that pre-financing is the main deficiency - if we can even talk about any - of the current setting. So I'm glad we managed to find a solution together. In a time of crisis when businesses need every crown, they will not have to prefinance aid. The maximum period for receiving the allowance is a maximum of 12 months, but according to the nature of the crisis, the government will decide to start for six months - a maximum of six months, it is not automatically six - and then it can extend twice by three months or a maximum of three months. If the employer does not share more parts, the non-addition requirement will be between 20 and 80 per cent and will be assessed collectively for all employees. If the employer is divided into parts, such as organisational units, departments or other components that are engaged in relatively independent activities within the employer, this condition will always apply only to the part where the non-addition of work takes place. So much for the basics. Let me also say briefly that I would also like to support two amendments. One concerns Mr Novák's amendment, which simplifies the process of granting unemployment support and restricts unnecessary administration, then also Mrs Aulická Jírovcová's amendment, which concerns B2B communication between the Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office, and is also intended to simplify and repatriate the functioning of the employment office. This means that both amendments are intended to increase the efficiency of the functioning of the labour authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u3	I am now asking the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, whether she wants to take the floor. [[Yes.]] Yes, you want to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will allow myself to sum up the progress of the negotiations here in this bill. The Government submitted a proposal in September 2020. The first reading took place at the meeting on 7 October, second reading on 20 January. At this second reading, nearly 60 amendments were made. As you know, in addition to the original government proposal, these were two key proposals, namely Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. The second key was Mr Sklenák's amendment, which was from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As I have already said, another 60 amendments have been added to this, and we have all been lost in what, in fact, the amendment belongs to. As far as the Committee on Social Policy is concerned, I must say here that it insists on its resolution 1025/4. Because all the submitters really care that this bill is feasible in practice, there has really been a will to cooperate and to work together. The Chair of the Social Policy Committee, Mrs Pastuchová, has convened a total of five meetings attended by both the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the staff, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, employers and trade unions. The result is therefore a joint amendment by Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Roman Sklenák and Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who will be presented to you today and whom I must say is really doing a great deal of work on the part of all those cooperating. I must say that I am very glad that, in the case of this proposal, common sense has won over political bickering, and it will be a really good tool to support both employees and employers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u5	I am now asking Mr Jan Bauer, who is rapporteur for the Economic Committee, whether he wishes to speak. [[Yes.]] Yes, you wish to get out. We will then open a general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u6	Once again, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to mention the resolution of the Economic Committee of September this year, which is registered under number 1025/3 in the system. And since I mentioned September of this year, I think you're all aware of the martyria that we've seen here in the course of cursarbeit, that the resolution of the Economic Committee is simply not relevant. I may even allow myself to make one comment from the rapporteur's position on the Economic Committee so that it doesn't look as idyllic and the idyllic as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has put it. It's the other way around. Kurzarbeit in the Czech Republic is a symbol of delusion, dilettantism and inability to prepare a key bill, according to which companies will follow the crisis situations that have either occurred in our country and may still occur in the future. Indeed, we have been watching this huge ruse here for less than a year, when one changeling alternated the other, there are about 60 of them, when one comprehensive amendment alternated the other, and MEPs and Members did not even know what to apply for or read their amendments because no one else knew about it. It is difficult for me to say this here, because the Civil Democratic Party has declared from the outset that we wish our country to have a really good bill and wording. If we're gonna call it a German-style cursarbeit, it doesn't matter. So my goal is certainly not to degenerate what my colleagues have created and what seems to be the result of the work, but I purposely wanted to say that the path to this was really very thorny and the inability of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to agree on something or to present something competent, which is simply obvious here. Finally, I would like you to know that the proposal for the last comprehensive amendment, if I am correct, as I have looked into the system, was read 9. 4th of this year, so a few days ago. Even though we were trying to participate in some way, I could only read it gently. I really don't think that's how key and big laws should be made. This does not mean that we want to block it in any way, but it is simply incredible that neither the Social Committee nor my colleagues on the Economic Committee will be able to comment on this comprehensive proposal, even though you say that this has been discussed with tripartite and with the Chamber of Commerce, but with everyone. The second reading will take place today, no one will be able to change anything, at most the Senate of the Czech Republic. But that's how we did it after that year with the cursarbeit in our country. I don't feel good about this, but it doesn't mean that we want to block the work that our colleagues have done here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u7	I am opening a general debate. Now... [[Mrs Pastuch is reporting for the floor.]] ... madam, I can't hear you. You want to speak with priority rights, and you are Vice-President of the club of the ANO movement. Okay, so I'll give you my word right away. Please take your word for it, and Mr. Marek Novák will be ready. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech on this, I would only, through you, react a little to Mr Bauer's colleague with the fact that I really put this amendment in the system last Friday, but with the fact that I gave information to colleagues who are on the Committee on Social Policy, because I was aware that you would like to respond to this comprehensive amendment. This is how I discussed it before the programme that was approved, and I asked that this House press be discussed next week so that you could really respond to this. Unfortunately, I think it was the opposition that suggested this point for the second reading today, and it was approved, so that is why we are already at the second reading, and I would like to say that this was not so much our fault. So that's it. Another thing I would like to say is that, with all due respect to the Minister, she has presented it to us here, but she has presented a comprehensive amendment, which I, together with Mr Sklenák and Mrs Aulicka, will only be tabled in a detailed debate. So there's something here that's not read yet, I don't think it's very good. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased to be here today to stand up for my colleagues, as I said, Mr Sklenák and Mrs Aulická, and to present you with a comprehensive amendment to the government amendment to the so-called Cursarbeit. For my part, there were times when I stopped believing in a possible consensus, which is why I am glad to be standing here today, and I can present this proposal. Although we initially had different attitudes, I think we all had a common goal and we knew that the introduction of the so-called cursarbeit is very important, that we need to help people not only now, in the time of the coronavirus, but also in the future. And here I would point out again that the cursarbeit is not for now, in crisis, but this law will be here with us many, many years later, I hope. That is why we had - and I am very glad that we had - the will to find an acceptable solution together for all of us and that we all gave in to something, but we managed to agree. The result of our agreement is today's comprehensive amendment. At the speed of recap. We all know that this crisis has called for extraordinary solutions in the Antivirus programme, which is very successful, but we have realized that we have long known that we have lacked a specific standard tool to address this situation. I don't think I'm gonna say it. I'm gonna sum it up fast. Once again, many saw inspiration in the German Kursarbeit, but we could not inspire and could not automatically transfer it, as many thought. We have been missing a fund on insurance policy for decades, employment services are not organised on a tripartite basis and others and others. As the rapporteur, by your means, Mrs Dražilová, said, was adopted at a second reading of about 50 amendments, two of which went a little against each other and were different in principles. We had constructive negotiations with all, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, representatives of tripartite. As I said, everyone has retreated from something, and I am very happy to present the main points of the amendment here. For myself, I would like to say and point out that I am really happy that the fact that employees are retained there is that they will receive wages at the same time, pay or pay compensation, in one time together with the payment, and therefore they will not have to change their payments for mortgages, rents, gas, electricity, which was our goal. And the second thing I'm really happy about is that it's a retreat from so-called support, but it's based on a payback from the employer. And now, in detail, on the amendment that I am proposing together with my colleagues. As I said, leaving the proposed system of employee support via the employer is a fundamental change compared to the government bill. As before, the employer will pay employees compensation in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Labour Code in the case of obstacles to work on his side. The staff member will therefore receive his money for the period worked and for the period without assigned work on the same day on a permanent pay-out date. A contribution may be requested for a staff member whose employment lasts at least three months. If the employer wishes to make a contribution at the time of part-time work to pay the salary paid by the employee, this compensation must be at least 80 per cent of the average salary of the employee. The Labour Office shall then pay him an allowance of 80 per cent of the cost of this remuneration. The principle is similar to the tested Antivirus. 80 per cent of the compensation paid will be paid, including the contributions. The contribution ceiling is set at 1.5 times the average wage. Timing of the contribution depends entirely on the employer. He can apply for payment before his pay date. Since the employment office will have eight days to pay, the employer may receive funds before compensation for his employees' wages is due, in other words, there is no need to pay the employees' wages first and only to ask for reimbursement of the relevant costs. The possibility to draw a contribution will always be activated by a government regulation. The law specifies when the activation can be carried out. This will take place after discussion in tripartite. The Regulation lays down all essential conditions and parameters. The important thing is that the level of employment, namely specific jobs, must be threatened. The government determines the extent of obstacles to work between 20 and 80 per cent of weekly working hours. This period will be counted either as part of the employer or as a whole of the employer according to where the conditions where employment will be threatened will be fulfilled. The government will also determine the time of activation. For the first time it may be a maximum of six months and the period can be extended twice by three months - indeed for 12 months, as the Minister said. The government also has the opportunity to define a range of employers by establishing binding indicators that the employer must fulfil. The law does not specify them, they will always be elected depending on the causes of activation. The employer's contribution shall also be subject to obligations in respect of which failure to fulfil the obligation to return the contribution or part thereof. For example, keeping a job for a certain time even after the end of the draw, namely a time equal to half the draw time. It is a compromise between achieving the goal, i.e. keeping the place at risk, and at the same time trying not to keep artificially places that have ceased to be promising. The penalty would also follow a breach of the agreement which is foreseen to be concluded between the employer and the employment office. On the basis of this agreement, employees will be released to an active... secure employment office, whether in the framework of employee retraining or other necessary training events. [[15.20 hours]] I have mentioned our comprehensive amendment here. Once again, I know, and I tried, unfortunately, it couldn't have been done so that you had time to respond, there was little time. Nevertheless, I am glad that second reading is repeated today, and I believe that this overall proposal, along with our amendments, will be acceptable to you, we will approve it, the Senate will support it and we will have an instrument to help us deal with these things in the future, an instrument that has not been in this Republic in the long term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u9	Mr. Marek Novák will now appear and prepare... [[On the board lights: Novák, Pastuchová, Černohorský.]] Not Mrs Jana Pastuchová anymore, so Mr Lukáš Černohorský. [[Left-hand reaction in the O.R.]] Yeah, I didn't really see it coming. Please. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. It's factual here, yes. You have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to Mr Novák. Very briefly. Basically, I wanted to respond, in particular, to what Mr Bauer said here, to the overwhelming criticism of the way this press was discussed. I just think that this criticism isn't entirely justified, because it looks like we were putting the press back into second reading because it was a total mess and it couldn't be voted out. But at least I stand by myself simply for the fact that the amendment that I originally tabled was well written, and if it had been approved, the cursarbeit would have worked well as an instrument. Even, remember, you've been told by employers' representatives and employees that they agree to support it, and they've asked you all to support it. Why we returned it to second reading was because here the House was so-called split in half, and we found that it was not a good key law of such importance that should serve decades to vote over the majority of one two votes. So we figured we'd try and work it out again and find an even bigger match. This is only about why we are back at second reading and that I am standing, at least me, but also in the debate that we subsequently had, the participants presented the discussions. Yes, let's look for a way to an even more perfect version, but basically the original was nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u11	Yes. Now a point of fact, Mr Jan Bauer. So far, one factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u12	I would not use those words here because I did not even say them, but I just point out that the fact that I actually stand behind it being a pasculi and that it is the pinnacle of dilettantism only proves that you, my colleague through the President, do not remember that in September we were persuaded on the Social Committee that there must be a state of legislative emergency and that this law must be approved immediately. And even one day before it got to the first reading, the Prime Minister said that the law had failed the government, it was a mess and it had to be redesigned. So just so we know who's talking about the pasquila. Then, among other things, the Minister declared and acknowledged that this bill failed and would have to be redesigned. So it wasn't my words. I was merely reacting to what I read in the media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u13	Wait a minute. Now Mr Roman Sklenák and the Minister want to make a factual point? With priority rights, if you don't get jumped. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u14	I think, Mr Bauer, through Mr President, that we both know how it was, we are just talking a little bit about something else. I have spoken and defended my amendment in substance to the Government's draft law, which I presented at that first second reading, that is what I have been talking about and that I am standing up for. And the other thing. Why did we have the cursarbeit presented by the government in a legislative emergency? Because it has responded to the fact that it should have ended under the law of the European Union Antivirus. It could have been extended until the end of this year in the course of the discussion of this press, so it was not necessarily necessary to have this instrument available immediately and it could continue with Antivirus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u15	One more point in fact, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Vlastimil Válek. With priority rights, Minister Maláčová is prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u16	Thank you. I don't know what happened. If anyone could explain it, I'd be very happy. But I am surprised that the opposition Members agree with the opinion of the Prime Minister, who will speak on the law, if he has said that they are pasquil, and the coalition does not agree as if the position of coalition and opposition has changed. I'm getting confused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u17	Now with the right of priority, Minister Jana Maláčová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I think it was completely different in chronological terms, but let's not go back to that, because the important thing is that we have as a coalition fulfilled. We have a very good compromise proposal that supports the whole tripartite, including the Chamber of Commerce, and that is what counts. The result counts. It is a matter that has been proposed on the basis of annual experience with the Antivirus programme, and I think that the next governments will be very happy if they have such quality, I firmly hope that soon approved cursarbeit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u19	Mr. Marek Novák will now appear, please. Mr. Lukáš Černohorský will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Minister, I will introduce you to my amendment to the 1025 press, which I also presented at the previous second reading, very briefly. This is actually a proposal that simplifies the work of workers at the employment office, because, of course, we also need to make the processes more effective. This is a so-called decision document. This means that we propose that workers of the labour offices should not have to make decisions in all cases in the context of unemployment aid, but also in order to issue so-called notifications. Of course, even in this case, the rights of clients who will also be able to appeal against the notification will be preserved, which means that nothing changes within the rights of clients and, on the contrary, we are simplifying, speeding up the process for workers at labour offices. Thank you very much for your support and I will read it later in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u21	Mr Lukáš Černohorský will now appear and prepare Mrs Hana Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u22	Thank you for the floor. My performance will concern the House document or amendment under number 8133. This amendment concerns legal insurance of the employer's liability for damage to work accidents and occupational diseases. I'll try to introduce it quickly. This is the legislation of legal insurance, which is based on § 205 of Act No. 65/1965 of the previous Labour Code, which was repealed by Law No 65/1965. 262/2006, with Paragraph 365 remaining there under the transitional provisions, which extends the application of the legislation on the maintenance of insurance until it is transformed into a social security system or a private insurance system. Further conditions and rates are further regulated by the Decree of the Ministry of Finance, which sets the rates and so on. The employer is obliged, where appropriate, to compensate for damage caused by accidents at work and occupational diseases. He is legally insured for these cases, that is not on the basis of the insurance contract. The employer thus has the right to be compensated by the insurance undertaking for the damage caused to the injured employee by an accident at work or by an occupational disease for which the employer is responsible. Insurance is created at the same time as the creation of a employment relationship. At this point, only two insurance companies provide this insurance by law. One is the Česká pojišťovna, which provides this if the insurance was agreed with it on 31 December 1992. The second is possibly Kooperativa. This is a historical division that had some causes. Insurance is provided for by implementing legislation, in the form of a rate according to the employer's prevailing economic activity, the employer's amount being required to calculate from the assessment base of employees, as in the case of insurance or social security and the contribution to the state employment policy. This is paid quarterly and the minimum is about 100 crowns. [[15.30 hours]] I will therefore justify the changes proposed because this is a response to some of the findings of the Supreme Audit Office from its control action number 1912, which I am rapporteur for, i.e. to the Audit Committee. In the case of Article 366 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in so far as it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 1, although the decree provides for a minimum premium of CZK 100, I specify in this case that this insurance is also valid if, for example, the assessment basis cannot be determined for labour agreements. In the case of Article 366 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the This is the calculation according to § 12 para. 9 of the decree given by the Ministry of Finance, but this penalty is disproportionately high and in many cases only liquidation. The practice resulted in the need to implement the penalty rate and to align it with the social security insurance scheme pursuant to Act No. 589/1992. Another change that occurs there is the modification of § 366 para. 3 where the current decree provides for the possibility of waive recovery, but does not set out the framework criteria under which the waiver is decided. In this case, we specify a little bit more in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, under which conditions it is possible to waive any penalty, with the fact that § 367, on the basis of the complaint of the Supreme Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance's authorisation to carry out control of insurance companies in the legal insurance. Thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u23	Madam Hana Aulická will now appear, and Mrs Pavla Golasowská will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm gonna be much longer. I just want to respond to the previous discussion that was going on here. The previous discussion of this House press has indeed been carried out in a rather heated situation, and I also admit that there have been two camps, one camp on the original proposal and then some modified compromise, and then our amendment, Mrs Pastuchová and mine. However, I must say that, above all, thanks to the social partners and tripartite, we have found the final joint proposal. Well, maybe some of my colleagues don't like it, so I think they're the ones who worked out the comments and worked out the compromise proposal that's here today. I participated not all of them, but, of course, I tried for time reasons to be present to all videoconferences, where it was discussed really from commentary to comment, point to point, and not only representatives of the Ministry of Labour, but also other expert groups looked at it as a future legislative amendment, which will be here for the Czech Republic and which needs to be really good and quality. And I'm really glad that even though the ODS is criticized by that way and so on, we think with these employers that this is a gros for us because it's an amendment to save employment. I am so glad that the compromise trip was found there and that, in fact, all the representatives, both the unions, employees' representatives, and employers, are satisfied today. And this should be the result of the Chamber of Deputies so that it happens that legislation is of good quality and is prepared for future years in the Czech Republic so that it can respond to other emerging situations that may be in the Czech Republic. No one is also saying that this is appropriate legislation at present at the current pandemic, because we can all say that it is not. We have a functioning Antivirus program here, which I believe will be extended. We have until the end of the year, but at least until that June, as was said at the Office of the Government. I think that even employers themselves, or even in this process, would not be appropriate for us to fundamentally change legislation now, regardless of the fact that this amendment, this bill, if adopted, will be valid only from 1. 1. 2022. And although we can really say that the child was born very hard, on the other hand, I stand by today that what has been prepared and what is the result is one of the good legislative changes that have come to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, if you would allow me to inform you that I have spoken to the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs today, and although I have said that I will never submit an amendment again in my life, I have been asked for one amendment concerning the reduction of administration under one form. The reason for the proposed amendments to the Act is to simplify and increase the comfort for job applicants, if necessary, by documenting the necessary documents for assessing entitlement to unemployment aid. The point is that it would reduce administrative demands for employers in the form that they will not have to issue two forms, but one that will be extended only by certain information and parameters will be sent electronically to the Czech Administration and the Czech Administration, although we know that it is very overwhelmed, but takes it as one of the great advantages itself, it will send it to the Institute of Labour, where these parameters will also be processed so that the employee does not have to appear himself personally, to hand it over to the Office of Labour. I have had this amendment assessed by other experts from practice in our region. No one has a problem with that from the employers' side. That is why I have also read this amendment. It's a small adjustment. On the other hand, in that system, although both institutions, both the Labour Office and the Czech Administration, are very overwhelmed, I must say that I would like to compliment them on doing everything they can. I would also like to ask for the support of this amendment afterwards. However, we will also discuss it on the Social Policy Committee after the guarantee negotiations. It is therefore not submitted so that it is immediately approved, and certainly your comments, if any, will be answered by the Ministry of Labour for example by the Director of Boháček or the representative of the Labour Office or by the Minister himself. Anyway, although I said never again, in this respect, I see the positive pros of reducing the administration. I will sign up in a detailed debate, it is under the House press 8155. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u25	I will now ask Mrs Pavla Golasowská to speak, and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present my four amendments to the amendment to the Employment Act. So the first amendment - its aim is to reduce the employer's costs at a time of economic problems, to which the government will, by its regulation, allow the payment of aid at a time of partial employment to their employees. It is therefore proposed to halve the amount of social security premiums so that the proposed legislation can actually serve in practice as an effective transitional programme to address employment problems, the main objective of which is to maintain jobs in businesses and thus their competitiveness at the time of the legal crisis situations. So that is the first amendment. The second amendment aims to increase the setting of the maximum ceiling for support at the time of partial employment, so as to enable employers to maintain better-rewarded and highly qualified employees during the crisis. The key objective of the aid is to maintain the company's competitiveness in the market for a period after the crisis has been overcome, where sufficient procurement and production will be restored. The maximum amount of aid at the time of partial employment shall be 1,5 times the average wage per month in the national economy for the first to third quarters of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the notification referred to in Article 120e (1) of the Treaty was submitted. 1. The Ministry will announce the average wage for the first to third quarters on the basis of data from the Czech Statistical Office by a communication published in the Collection of Laws. [[15.40 hours]] My next and this time the third amendment. It aims to replace the average net hourly earnings from which the amount of aid is fixed at the time of partial employment by the average hourly earnings. This will significantly reduce the decline in income of the vast majority of employees, which is the most significant in highly qualified professions, whose maintenance employers are most interested in during the crisis, by up to 14 percent. In other words, employees' incomes will increase significantly at the time of partial employment and thus their purchasing capacity, which is an important prerequisite for restoring GDP growth and its dynamics as well as an important tool for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the area of services provided to the population. And my fourth and last amendment concerns aid at the time of partial employment, which belongs to employees for the whole calendar month, in which he cannot do work because of some of the obstacles to work under Sections 207 to 209 of the Labour Code, which occurred with his employer in direct connection with one of the reasons for which the Government Decree was issued pursuant to § 120b (1). 1, unless the employer allocates at least 20 per cent of the work to employees and 80 per cent of their weekly working time, broken down in accordance with Section 84 of the Labour Code to the relevant calendar month, the condition being assessed collectively for all employees of that employer. These are all my four amendments, which I will then sign up for in detail in the debate, and thank you, colleagues, for their support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u27	I will now ask Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková to speak and Mr Pavel Juříček will prepare himself. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, pandemics have shown that without a backbone network of public services, in particular health services, but also sanitary services, functioning labour offices, social systems, issues such as pandemics cannot be handled. It also showed that the State has tools to maintain employment. Both social democracy is considered to be very important and perhaps most important from the point of view of what the state is supposed to do for its citizens. I recall that the Antivirus programme, perhaps the most successful programme of support for citizens in the pandemic, supported up to one million jobs. Imagine, if this program weren't, every fifth person would be roughly out of a job. But the antivirus has limited time. That is why, as Social Democrats, we are seeking a permanent instrument of promoting employment not only for pandemics but also natural disasters, cyber attacks and other emergency situations that we may not yet be able to see through. This permanent instrument is the current proposal under the name cursarbeit. And despite the birth pains that have been mentioned here, the agreement on a comprehensive amendment hopefully will create a really good instrument that we will need, which, as I believe, if accepted - and I believe that it will be accepted very soon - can bring some kind of calming to both employees and employers in case there are some really extraordinary events that we cannot see at this point, however much none of us want to. Co-workers and colleagues, because the comprehensive amendment also addresses the link between the time when the employee cannot work and the possibility of using this acquired time for his education, to increase his qualifications, to increase his opportunities, the chances of the labour market, I will no longer report to the amendments that have been addressed in this area. I also say that I do not want to burden discussing this bill by debating whether there is a need to report job vacancies, or whether we are to record agreements on work and work activities, however much I believe that these things are in order for the State to be able to effectively help create new jobs so that it can help people to find new jobs effectively if they lose their job that we need these instruments. But again, I do not want to burden these proposals on the debate on the current proposal on cursarbeit, so I will not report to these amendments either. And please support a comprehensive amendment, which at least part of what I wanted to be in this standard, treats and introduces. Finally, allow me to thank Minister Maláčová for her hard work and for her efforts to reach a compromise, to negotiate within the tripartite framework, but also, of course, within the coalition and the entire political scene, to agree that the proposal that we are discussing - I believe that she will be adopted - was a measure that will really bring comfort - that we know that if there is a problem, we have a tool for solving it - calming down for employees and employers, that it will be a permanent tool, there will be no need to change it after every breath on the political scene. I will ask you once again to support this comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u29	Mr Pavel Juříček will now appear and Mr Roman Sklenák will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I really do have a mind to stand here and talk from the umpir. But, okay, let's not go back to the past, but we have to say that there are still 330,000 employees missing on the labour market. Businesses, industry and we entrepreneurs have been holding the economy here for a year and talking about the fact that Antivirus saved a million jobs is completely nonsense, so let's not use it anymore, because we entrepreneurs know what the reality is. However, allow me to show some disappointment here, which has already been somewhat suggested here, through the President, by Honza Bauer, that we do not have much time to discuss the facts and parameters, but nevertheless, given that yesterday I captured this comprehensive amendment, I am of course glad that there is an agreement, some platform on which we can build the whole construction of the cursarbeit. But for me, it is disappointing that all the parameters that we have adopted across all sides of the Economic Committee have not been used at all, where, apart from the two pirát, we have all voted on amendments to the Economic Committee, and that they have fallen out of this comprehensive amendment. [[15.50 hours]] Since I have noted this, I have now allowed them to be loaded as mine, but nevertheless they are the original amendments of the Economic Committee, so let us just say to some of them. First of all, counting on the company not to work for 12 months is total nonsense, please. As I was saying, yes, even within the pandemic, we didn't work for one and a half, two months tops, and then the companies worked, but of course not all of them, for that we need different tools than just cursarbeit as such. Another thing, that means, we suggested at the time that it would be three months plus three months extension, not six plus six, but three plus three. I can't imagine standing here subsidizing companies for a year, and nothing's gonna happen. And if you take that notice is two plus three months, then the firm that can't see its orders, of course, within the six months, it's gonna be okay. So that is one key point in the amendment. The second key point is the amount of average gross hourly earnings. We were suggesting at the time that it wouldn't be 60, so it would be a benefit, let's say 65 percent. I have two options now, 60, 75, because I see that the House is increasingly willing to spend money on the state budget, so I propose 65 or 70 percent, respectively. On the Economic Committee, and I used to say that here as Vice President of the Union of Industry ten years ago, I had an agreement with the union, with Jarda Zavadil, and with Pepa Středula, that it would be 65 percent. Well, it's not enough now, it looks like we're already proposing 80. The next point is the limitation of the length of the aid, the length of time for which the employee cannot carry out his work for obstacles, limit it to a maximum of two days, because a company that doesn't work four days a week, well, for God's sakes, that company doesn't have the right to survive. It's just another completely disbanded system that we're going to be paying for from the state budget. And please, any businessman who doesn't have a job at least three days a week will just have to deal with it sooner or later. The next point is the requirement to show a decrease in sales or revenues. This is not mentioned here in this comprehensive amendment at all, that the entrepreneur or the company will request and prove that it does not have those contracts, year-to-day, that is, the previous period against the existing period. That makes sense. When I want something, I have to prove that something, in some way, has dropped my revenue or my income. Another content is the obligation of the employee to repay the aid if he finally draws, whether it's my proposed or us, the economic committee proposed for six months, and then they release those people, so it's logical that the money should be returned, not that it will normally work, received a lot of money from the state, and nothing will happen. So I think it's necessary, of course, to give - Dal. That's normal, that's common reasoning and logic. Well, the last point is... that means returning the potential support within a month. The last thing is an amendment, which we also discussed, which was just not enough for the Economic Committee at the time. The moment you get into major troubles and you need to start a business, whether it's floods or your house or business burns down, you need some professions in the company called imrvére, so we propose to increase it from 12 hours to 16 hours in order to start the production itself as soon as possible. Even during the pandemic, we needed some professions that were needed because there was a shortage of labor during the pandemic, because people were quarantined, people were with covid, eventually we pushed family members into it, so dozens, hundreds of people left companies, because of course the children were not in schools, and even finally increased sick leave to 60 percent plus 370 crowns, so in the finals businesses, for a year we did really with a minimum number of people and we were completely on edge, so some professions just needed to help the company itself in order to work at all. And the last amendment, I have already mentioned that this is the option for 65 percent to do 70 per cent, so the House will decide how generous we are in the course of cursarbeit. All these amendments are in the system and are linked to the complex amendment under the number 8091 of Jana Pastuchová, Roman Sklenák and Hanka Aulická Jírovcová. Thank you for your attention and I hope that we will have enough common sense that these things, even though they have not been discussed here, are really going to be done by the third reading and that you will accept them all, because it has a logical basis, and it is about keeping it, the cursarbeit, not here just for the time that the Central Left Government is here, but for it to last here for at least another 10 years. And again, I'm just saying - don't think that cursarbeit in the German version is an ideal. I've already tried to tell you the truth about this. Of course, it's often a mantra, how it works well somewhere, and I'm telling you, it doesn't work very well there, because there's really no one to deal with for a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u31	Mr Roman Sklenák will now appear, so far the last application in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. You could argue with what Mr Juříček said here, quite controversial and discussing, his mention of 300,000 job vacancies, maybe it would be interesting to talk about the structure of these places and so on, but I do not want much to launch unnecessary discussions, even because we still have important points ahead of us. So only very briefly a few comments on the whole discussion here, but also in public space and in recent weeks and months. What needs to be realized is that although the situation in which we were in has accelerated work on this law significantly, it is a legislative framework that, for example, we as Social Democrats wanted to bring into the rule of law already in the last parliamentary term. It is a universal tool that should be used in various emergency situations. That's why when Pavel Juříček talks about the 12 months being a long time, well, that's... I can imagine a situation where the 12 months won't be a long time. But most importantly it is some legislative framework in the law, but the government at the moment it will activate the cursarbeit, i.e. the contribution at the time of partial work, whether we speak Czech, if someone does not like the German word, so the parameters set. And it's clearly said that if we want to get to those 12 months, it's basically got to be six at the most, then three months at the most, and then three more and so on. [[16.00 hours]] So I don't want to argue with my previous speakers in detail here, but I ask you to really consider supporting our joint amendment. Believe me, dozens or maybe hundreds of hours have actually been spent on this. It was very important to take into account all possible situations. It was also a legal, legislative grasp - it was really important to bear in mind the European Union's right. I do not want to discuss all the details here in detail, but I am sure that our joint amendment represents legislation, which - if we approve it - will be very valid in the coming years and decades, and I would hardly be afraid to say that if we approve this here, it may be the most important law in this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u33	Thank you, and that was the last application in the general debate. Good afternoon, everyone. If no one else is reporting to the general debate, and I don't see anyone else, I'm ending it. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after a general debate by the appellant or the rapporteur? It's not like that. The proposal that we should now vote did not fall, so I am opening up a detailed debate in which Mr Marek Novák is signed up. I recall that amendments and other proposals need to be presented in the debate and duly justified. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I hereby refer to document 6958, which is the amendment that I presented to you in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u35	Thank you. Please, Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Černohorský will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u36	Thank you. I am applying to the amendment under number 8091, which I also justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u37	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr Černohorský, Mrs Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u38	I am applying to the amendment under number 8133. It is both justified in writing and justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u39	Thank you. Now, Mrs Aulická has the floor, Mrs Golasowská will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u40	Thank you. I am signing up for an amendment under House document 8155. I said my reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u41	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Golasowská, and Mr Juříček will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u42	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for my four amendments under numbers 6311, 6312, 6313 and 6314, which I justified in the general debate, please support them and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Juříček and then Mrs Kovářová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u44	Yes, thank you. So I am applying to my amendments, which are all based on the original amendments from the Economic Committee, and that is under number 8103 - a reduction in the period of entitlement from 12 months to 6 months. Amendment under number 8104 - method of calculating aid 65 per cent of average earnings. Amendment 8105, i.e. from the four days, or from 80 per cent of the week working time, to two days, to forty. Amendment under number 8106 - a requirement for proof of a decrease in sales and revenues respectively. Amendment 8107 - the employer's obligation to repay the aid. Amendment number 8108, i.e. in exceptional cases, after the employee's approval to 16 hours increase from 12. Amendment 8109 is an option to Amendment 8104 to 70 per cent of the average hourly earnings. Again, these are all matters relating to the adoption of amendments by the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u45	Thank you and now, Mrs Kovářová, as at this time, the last one entered in the detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u46	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for the amendments, which are led under House documents 7253 and 6441. I originally wanted to put forward further amendments, but as I found out from my colleague about the new comprehensive amendment, these issues are included there, so I only apply to these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u47	Thank you. If no one else is reporting, I... I still see the lady. Yeah, we'll give it time, sure, it was quick. Please, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u48	I'm sorry. That happens to me once every eight years. I would like to sign up for five amendments, which you will find in the system under numbers 6387, 6388, 6389, 6390 and 6391. The reasons for each of them are quite clear. I think that, given that this law has been a year, the pains around it have been great and some of those changes, if some other amendments are not adopted, because I know that they are excluded with mine, so they could rather be an obstacle to the use of cursarbeit rather than helping, so I have decided to put forward these amendments just to be sure, and I firmly believe that this proposal will only help improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u49	Thank you. I will ask again if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Bauer, so I'm sure we'll give you some room. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u50	Thank you for the floor. However, I would like them to be in the system again. This is House document 6334, 6335, 6336 and 6337. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-010-011.u51	Thank you. I will ask again if anybody else is still reporting for a detailed debate to come forward with their proposals. However, I don't really see anyone anymore, so at this point, I am ending the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words after a detailed debate? It's not like that. I have no proposals here that we should vote on at the moment, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. That concludes point 11. And now we've got a point on the show.
