ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 82nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record your participation, I will first check you out and please log in with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 79th meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 56 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, February 2nd of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. I would like new Members to register with their identification cards. I'm the one who got the bang. We will vote on the verifiers of this meeting, Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Jiří Valent. I've started the vote, I'm asking, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting order number 1, 77 Members signed in for 77, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we are the verifiers of the 82nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Jiří Valenta. Apologies from today's meeting I refer to the 79th meeting. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 82nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Before the vote on the programme, I was asked to speak with Mr Farský and then Mr Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the 55 Members who signed up for the motion to convene this extraordinary meeting, but thank you to those who then informed me that they would have joined their signature, only at that time in the context of the maneuvers that are happening here in the House, they did not stand a chance. It is not that we invented it so suddenly that we want an extraordinary meeting, but in this I would like to thank the folklore who repeatedly proposed these points for discussion within this meeting, their firm classification, but since the agenda here is so much that most at the time considered more important from their point of view, they were not included. These are two bills, one is under number 545 from July 2019, i.e. more than a year and a half old, and the other is from November last year, press 1073 regarding insolvency. Kind of special at the meeting is that they're both government proposals. One of them is at second reading, this is the execution committee, the press 545, and the other, 1073, came to the House originally signed as a law to be discussed in a legislative emergency, but because the constitutional-legal committee and then the House agreed that although it is important, but it is not in a constitutional emergency, he was referred to a normal classic three-step discussion with a letter from the constitutional-legal committee in order to reduce as much as possible the time limits in which it is discussed. The law is from November and has not yet passed the first reading. This is why we have decided on an extraordinary means and an extraordinary one, because we have largely signed a motion from the opposition to convene an emergency meeting to discuss government bills. But we live in an extraordinary time, so hopefully this too will not be an obstacle. I consider these laws to be one of the most important laws we have in the House at the moment. Their discussion will have a direct impact on the lives of 720,000 people who are in execution, mediated to perhaps 1.5 million people, because of course they have their families, have their loved ones, and executions are far from just what they are facing at that moment. Neither of these proposals says, "Don't pay your debts! He doesn't say, "Be irresponsible!" Both proposals say: Debts need to be paid, creditors need to be satisfied. But what's not supposed to happen is that many people end up in debt traps without a chance in their lives to pay off the debts that go to him. It is also a remnant of those wild lending times, when many of those who are in executions have long ago repaid the original debt, the principal, but because so many accessories and so much interest and so much fees have been placed on it, they are simply kept in that situation. I would ask you, in the interest of one and a half million people, to be a little bit invisible - because they don't boast that they're in execution, that they're in a debt trap, that they're in an impossible situation, they don't tell it at all, that they need to be helped. But they're our citizens. These are people who are often in a situation where they are no longer paid to work legally, when they simply move into the grey zone, receive benefits, and I think it is worth it to all of us if we give them a chance to return to the labour market, and maybe not only those who live out of benefits, but those who contribute to public budgets by paying taxes. I would like to thank you in advance for approving the agenda for this meeting and for the two extremely important prints that respond to the debt pandemic that we are also facing here, even though it is not as visible as the covidová one, so that you will support these two prints for discussion and today they will be discussed. I thank you for all those who signed this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u3	I also thank you and Mr Marek Výborný will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u4	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, very briefly. For the KDU-ČSL MP, we have repeatedly been in a somewhat absurd situation here, when, as opposition Members, we have proposed the discussion of government press in the area of execution and insolvency, because I fully agree with what my colleague Jan Farský said. We are in a situation where it is also our responsibility to be prepared for what unfortunately begins to manifest itself clearly and certainly in the coming months, and these are the effects of the COVID-19 crisis on families, those who get into the problem of paying off their liabilities and who, perhaps, had no idea even a year ago that they might have been in a similar situation. [[17.10 hours]] We are in a situation where we have to solve the past, which is here and, unfortunately, because of the errors of the legislators - not most of us sitting here, but our predecessors, and let's face it, but we also have to deal with the sphere. That's the past, and we need to prepare the environment. Insolvency and execution are indeed, I have said it here repeatedly during this parliamentary term, the continuous vessels, they cannot be separated, and therefore it is logical and important and actually symbolic that we are following up on the press that we discussed a moment ago, and these are child debtors. We have an ambition with the government - and I thank you that the prints have been submitted, both the government and then the government amendment to the insolvency law is very important - and by discussing these two prints, we will create room for the cultivation of the execution environment, to prepare a debt recovery environment, because it is clearly the premise that debts should be paid. But we need to look for a balanced system where, on the one hand, we respect the rights of serious creditors and, on the other hand, we also do not ignore the legitimate rights of those responsible debtors. We really need to create a trampoline here, and not a network - that network often falls into debt traps, and I think it's wrong. We need to create a trampoline that gets them back into the system because we're not just gonna help those debtors, we're gonna help creditors who can at least get some of their debts, and we're gonna help the state, all of us, because we're gonna get those people out of the gray zone into the system. That is the objective, and I would very much like to ask all of you, regardless of your political affiliation, to support the agenda of this meeting, whether within the first item of second reading, the House press 545, the order of execution and the Civil Procedure Code, as well as, although it is the government press, please, as an opposition Member, let us discuss the amendment to the insolvency law, because they both address what I was talking about a moment ago. Thank you for supporting the agenda of this meeting, and I believe that we will be able to unload it, because we are all aware of what we are really dealing with with these two prints. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, even for the SPD movement, I would like to say that we are glad that there are finally points on the agenda that will help people in executions and insolvencys. We, as SPD, have long been fighting for better conditions for people in executions and insolvencys, so I would briefly remind you of the SPD's bills that lie here in the House. First of all, this is our bill to nationalize executors. Yes, the SPD wants to nationalize the bailiffs. I call the current system "the state of consecrated usury," it is a truly unbearable system, and the solution is the nationalization of executors. The law has been here for a long time, so I hope the other parties will let us have it in the October elections so that we can help those hundreds of thousands of people who are in executions. Furthermore, there is a draft law of the SPD that would change the debt repayment system so that the principal, or debt, would first be repaid, and then fees and judgments. Today it is the other way around. That is why the situation is that people who might have owed a ticket have already overpaid the principal, or debt, many times, just on the outrageous fees and various judgments, and they still cannot get rid of the execution. And that's an absolutely abnormal condition, so we want to turn around. However, this law has also been here for almost a year and has no support here, so I hope that by the end of the parliamentary term, the other parties will support us and, if necessary, that in the October elections to the SPD House, they will strengthen us so that we have more power to enforce these laws. The third draft law, which we also have here, by the way, is that we are canceling interest rates because it is really absolutely outrageous, the current system that interest rates are. Of course, many debtors, with their will to pay back, cannot logically get rid of execution because it is an endless process. So that's also the SPD bill we have here. And the fourth, which is also crucial, is the local jurisdiction of executors, so-called territoriality. We're still waiting for it here, too. This means: if we were to introduce the local jurisdiction of executors that apply in many countries of Europe, we would end the business with the debt that is essentially taking place today. So I wanted to remind you of the SPD bills we've been fighting for in the long run. I am glad that, at least in a partial way, proposals for at least partial assistance are to be put on the agenda here, at least a little help to people who are in executions and insolvencys, and, of course, the SPD supports the positive changes to help these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, too. I do not see anyone else with priority rights, so we will now vote on the entire proposal for the 82nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote order number 2 registered 88 Members, for 84, there was no one against. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the first item in the programme, which is:
