ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-000-000.u1	The honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, is 9.00. Before we begin this 113th meeting, I'd like to remind you that the 114th will begin at 11 o'clock. And now, officially, I'm opening the 113th meeting, and welcome to all of you. To begin with, given where we meet, a few information. Since we are acting in this hall for technical reasons, at the 111st meeting, by resolution 1744, we set out more detailed rules for the negotiations and the seating arrangements. Please don't forget... [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm gonna ask all my colleagues to settle down, and this noise is gonna be a lot more difficult than the main meeting room. Please take your seats, I'll give you some information. Do not forget to sign up for the presentation list, as you were used to before, then log on to your conference system unit here in the hall and at the same time it is always necessary to check out when leaving the hall. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that only factual comments can be made through the units of the conference system in the debate - proper applications to the debate can only be submitted in writing, in the case of the operator of the voting device or from the point of raising his hand. But I would really like to ask you to sign up in writing to simplify our work. The hall is quite inconspicuous for us when someone raises their hand. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 45 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on July 19th. Otherwise, I hope you all have a voting manual, he was sent to you electronically on July 27th, and you should have it dealt with on the benches. We're 28 today. 7. I don't know if my colleague Ondráček is here, but Zdeněk Ondráček's birthday is today, so happy from a distance. And he's one of the lucky ones, the paired ones. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we identify Jana Černochová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I'm asking if there's another suggestion? I don't see anybody in the room, so let's try the vote for the first time. There's a slight delay, please watch when the screen is so low, there's a countdown. Hold on. And now we're voting. Who is for the proposed verifier? You log in under your name in the conference system and you have an offer for, against, delayed. That's the manual you got ahead of time. Who's against it? 89 Members took part in the vote, 45 for 83 against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have designated Ms Jana Černochová and Ms Kateřina Valachová as the verifier of the 113th meeting. Now, for a longer time, I'll read the apologies. Apologies to Members: Ivan Adamec - working reasons, Andrea Babišová - health reasons, Ondřej Babka - personal reasons, Ivan Bartoš - working reasons, Kolovratník Baxa - working reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - Radek Holomčík, Petr Bendl - working reasons, Jan Birke - working reasons, Jiří Bláha - working reasons, Lukáš Černohorský - personal reasons, Kopřiva Elfmark - personal reasons, Monika Červíčková - family reasons, Petr Klaus - family reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák - working reasons, Tomáš Kohoutek - family reasons, Kamal Farhan - foreign travel, Petr Fiala - family reasons, Stanislav Fridrich - family reasons, Petr Gazdíková - family Gazdík, Pavel Golasowská - working reasons, Tomáš Hanzel - family reasons, Ivan Jáč - working reasons, Adam Jakub, Miloslav Janulík - personal reasons, Kalous reasons, Juříček Jurečka - working reasons, Zuzana Václav, working reasons, Pavel Jelínek - family reasons - family reasons - family reasons - family Kott - family Levová - family Jana - family Josef - family reasons - family reasons - family Majerová. Zahradníková from 9 to 12 - working reasons, Jaroslav Martinů - working reasons, Jakub Michálek - personal reasons, Vojtěch Munzar - family reasons, Zdeněk Ondráček - working reasons, Petr Pávek - foreign travel, Pavel Plzák - working reasons, David Pražák - working reasons, Vít Rakušan - personal reasons, Roman Sklenák - personal reasons, Olga Sommerová - family reasons, Pavel Staněk - foreign travel, Zbyněk Stanjura - family reasons, Lucie Šafránková - medical reasons, Pavel Šindelář - working reasons, Vlastimil Válek - working reasons, Jiří Valenta - working reasons, Ivo Vondrák - foreign travel, Miloslava Vostrá - family reasons, Tomáš Vymazal - family reasons, Rostislav Vyzula - family reasons, Radek Zlesák - working reasons, Pavel Žáček - family reasons. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Klára Dostálová - family reasons, Jan Hamáček - personal reasons, Jakub Kulhánek - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. We will now proceed... Let's take a vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-000-000.u2	Hello, colleagues, only information. Now, as I approached the voting counter, I accidentally ran to the stupid one and signed up my colleague František Navrkal to the vote. Just so it sounds like a stew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-000-000.u3	If no one objects, the vote was clear, it was technical if we could do it without repeating the vote, only recorded. If there is no objection to such a procedure, I will continue. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 113th meeting, the proposal is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Initiating vote, hold on a second when the countdown comes in. Who's in favour of the proposed agenda? Who's against it? Voting number two, 99 Members voted in favour of 96, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that the agenda of the meeting has been approved, and we will therefore proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting. [[9.10 hours]] I have additional apologies. Mr Milan Pour apologizes for health reasons, Mr Petr Třešňák for family reasons, Mrs Margita Balaštíková for health reasons, Mr Ivo Pojezný for personal reasons and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec for work reasons, Mr Jiří Mašek for work reasons, Minister Marie Benešová today for work reasons, Mr Petr Sadovskýý today for work reasons, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová today for work reasons and Mr Daniel Pawlas today for health reasons. Well, that's really it. Opening point
