ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 502/10/ - returned by the Senate I will welcome Senator Petr Šilar here and ask the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. And before I give my word to anyone, I will ask the House for peace! I hope it will be possible to arrange a sufficiently dignified environment here. Let me say that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 502/11. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Once again, I welcome Senator Šilar, and I ask you not to start discussing this point... yet. I'm going to ask my colleagues to transfer the discussions that are outside the Food Act to the lobby. And I will now ask the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, to comment on the amendments tabled and the resolution of the Senate in his introductory words. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u2	The Senate removes the compulsory share of Czech food in retail trade by an amendment adopted by the Act. I want to reiterate that I generally support the higher representation of Czech, Moravian and Silesian food in shops, but I must agree that the proposed implementation was not good. For the Ministry of Agriculture, we preferred the option for the state administration to start with. That is why I am very pleased that he has gone through a proposal that allows more emphasis to be placed on local, ecological or biofood procurement in school dining rooms, hospitals, regional offices or other institutions. The amendments also include the removal of my supported unification of the surveillance in open food under the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, although, in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, the unification of supervision gives professional logic. However, I respect the decision of the senators and senators. However, I consider it most important that the ban on double food quality will finally be approved. This is what everyone has long been calling for, and I am very pleased that our consumers will no longer be second-class citizens, whom anyone can sell worse quality than in other countries. The amendment therefore contains a ban on the marketing of double-quality foods, i.e. foods that appear to be identical to foods marketed in other Member States of the European Union, although food placed on the market in the Czech Republic has substantially different compositions or characteristics. Finally, I would like to add that it is really important that the law be passed, to put it publicly, so that it does not fall under the table. We must comply with the transposition deadlines of certain regulations and directives of the European Union. But I consider it essential, as I have already said, that the need to finally put double food quality outside the law, and therefore I would like to ask you to approve the Senate version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, and I will now ask Senator Šilar to inform us of the Senate's position and to justify the amendments. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the Minister has made it clear to me... clearly... easier. I'm sorry. It's hard to talk in that cloak. And he actually said the important thing. I wanted to say that we discussed this law in detail in the Senate and that is why, as rapporteur on the Economic Committee as well as our subcommittee on agriculture and the Commission, I had a very clear amendment from the start, or changes in the fact that we wanted to eliminate the amendment on quotas in food, which finally succeeded. This law is returned with an amendment of the type that we have actually crossed out two items, the most important thing in terms of food quota. And I would like to say that in the Senate this proposal has been accepted completely convincingly, that is, of the 77 senators present and the senators who voted for it voted for all 77, that is, this has not happened for a long time, so that we can clearly express the will of a law. I would also recommend that you accept this indulgently - I know that Senate proposals do not often fall on fertile ground here, but this return law is really very important, and above all, as the Minister said, the approval of the double quality of food and other and other changes, which are sort of... Journalists just made it a quota bill. I've always had to correct them for the food law and their rules. It's very important to our farmers and our society, so I'm asking you to approve the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u5	I thank the Senator and I will now ask the rapporteur by committee if they wish to comment. First, the rapporteur of the Agricultural Guarantee Committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik. Is he interested in expressing himself? It's not like that. Mrs Věra Adámková for the Health Committee? He's not interested either. Member Jaroslav Bžoch? He's not interested. In that case, I can open a debate on this bill returned to the Senate. The first enrollment is Mrs Jarošová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that we have to discuss and defend something as obvious here as the support of our farmers and consumers, because the Senate has rejected the SPD's proposal for a mandatory share of Czech food in shops. The proposal is that from 2022 55 per cent of selected foods from Czech production must be represented in stores over 400 square metres, in each subsequent year the percentage will increase by 3 per cent until 2028 when we should reach at least 73 per cent. In doing so, our proposal received a positive opinion from the agricultural committee and a neutral position from the Ministry of Agriculture and passed successfully through the third reading, so I assume that this proposal is very good, necessary, otherwise you would not have voted for it. But immediately after his approval, she went against the SPD and the MPs who supported him, an incredible media crisis full of disinformation about the type of food price increase and the limitations of choice on our counters. Many of you, esteemed colleagues, failed to do so and began to retreat. But we are not here to fear the various senseless pressures of the angry media that represent the interests of the European Union, or the President of the Trade and Tourism Union of Prouza, who openly represents the interests of the chains. They're very good here, by the way, which testifies to their population per square kilometer. But we have been elected to fight for our citizens and for their interests, for our farmers, fruit farmers, green farmers, breeders, and sometimes the fight for them assumes the courage - the courage to go against all the interests that harm our citizens. And this courage was also lost by the Minister of Agriculture, who suddenly supported the elimination of quotas in the Senate, while still in the House after the approval of the law he said: Let us be a little nationalist about food, Czech agriculture and our country. And you can find other statements like this: The idea of the highest possible representation of our food for shoppers on the shelves is good. And then somewhere in the Moravec debate, we can hear from his mouth that he was actually just signaling the farmers he said. Yes, we're here for you. That's very kind of you, Minister. I'm sure your signal will ensure that our farmers are disposed of. After your signal, they'll actually start growing more apples, planting more cauliflower, expanding pig breeding. Let me give you an example of how the pork situation is, how we're doing with pork. Pigs have fallen to 1.5 million, self-sufficiency in pigs at 35 percent, and the last pigs are fighting for survival. Why? The purchase prices of pigs fell to the limit of CZK 30 per kilo, even 30 years ago the price was higher. And while the average production costs per kilo of pork are about 45 CZK, of course this varies according to the type and size of the company. But one thing's for sure, all pig producers are losing. And you know what the worst part is? Our Czech meat will not reach Czech customers at all. The market is dominated by foreign chains and they do not buy meat from Czech producers at these cost prices. They're not gonna ruin their market, their agriculture, their country! But the chains are theirs, aren't they? However, the situation is much worse for our pork farmers as the dining rooms, hotels and restaurants are closed and Czech meat is not sold here at all, so we export our live pigs hundreds of miles to Poland, Romania and Hungary. Where's the so-proclaimed welfare of animals? Where's the carbon footprint? Where's the economy? Pigs producers are in loss, they don't pay taxes, they pay a lot of employees, they go to montovens and the villages are emptying out. Agriculture is dying down, and these pork producers will appreciate your signal, Minister. [[16.20 hours]] Likewise, potatoes that Czech growers cannot get on the market because potatoes from abroad are imported to us at dumped prices. And I could name another commodity and another commodity. Here we go. If the SPD bill could be passed to support Czech farmers and Czech food, this would simply not happen. From most current politicians every day, we hear how wonderful the European Union is and how great the idea of a common Europe is, but the common single market serves only to dominate our market. In Europe, different levels of subsidies are set, including national ones, so the richer state has logically higher subsidies, but thus dominates the market and then dictates price and quality. We know the quality. Until we all understand that this market is ours and the Czech Republic is ours, and not European, we will continue to be just a colony of the European Union and continue to treat us like this. So that one day they don't run out of surpluses and prices for selected people will really be world-class and meat only on Sundays. The food self-sufficiency of the state in basic foods is not an empty concept. Our state is becoming really addicted and blackmailable in the most basic human need, and these are basic foods, and this needs to be realized. Our businessmen blame our proposal for expensive products and reduced food selection. There is only one thing I can say: our customers are not going to lower their choice of goods because it is a small percentage of food that will be legally preferred on our counters. It is a list of about 130 basic items from more than 15 000 offered in our retail trades, this is 0.8 percent of all product range. These are products in which we had 100% self-sufficiency in 1993 and which we are able to grow and breed in the case of animals. No one can say that foreign goods stop coming to us completely, that's a dirty lie. The selection will definitely remain in contrast to the prices - they will change. Yes, that's right, prices will change. It will not increase, as chain representatives and lying pro-brussels media falsely claim, but, on the contrary, it will reduce some commodities. At the current high prices, the exclusively aggressive trade policy of the chains is responsible. When vegetables get expensive, it's not our suppliers, it's chain margins. Even discount events don't come from them, but they've been coming from such compressed supplier prices. So if they like to talk about making our food more expensive, there's only one way to do it: to have our agriculture destroyed by the transnational chain, then we'll meet with such an expensive food when we don't like it. And it is our proposal to increase self-sufficiency, support our farmers, fruit farmers, greeners and all those who have been successfully liquidated by unfair chain practices so far and simply need legal protection, because a small but also large food supplier is primarily a Czech supplier, and that is what this is all about, the greater support of Czech producers and the protection of our market. After all, each country is logically guarding its market, despite the increased interest of customers in domestic food, which, given the trade and price policy of chains, are hardly available. What is the advantage for the Czech consumer to eat the vegetables of a bland taste of imports, grown in a greenhouse, harvested prematurely, how many times green, and transported through half of Europe by a truck? Czech consumers know this and want our products. And even worse, as soon as a major crisis begins, which has just happened in relation to the coronavirus or, for example, the closure of borders, war, anything can happen, then supply from abroad may be vulnerable. Well, we could just go graze around here, 'cause we couldn't bring anything. All you have to do is ask in any country if they would have brought us in short goods at that time, which will then be missing in their own market. They didn't, believe me, they won't. I am very glad that we have managed to abolish the double quality of food. Both food self-sufficiency and other quality foods are one of the most important topics. It is also a long-term SPD theme for our citizens to have quality food at affordable prices and for the European Union to not make our country a garbage bin. However, I do not understand the position of the Senate that it does not want our citizens to have high-quality Czech food at affordable prices and to ensure food self-sufficiency and safety in basic food. And that is why I appeal to you, Dear House, not to give way to the terrible pressure that has been put on us to vote for the citizens that have made us here and can work for them, and I ask for the support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jarošová. Before I give the floor to my colleague Bendl, Tomáš Martínek made a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Through Mr President, to the previous speaker, it is something like all other SPD proposals. Such proposals are pleasing, but when one can think about them comprehensively, so senseless and against the interests of Czech citizens. Lower competition standard, it will teach you in the first year of high business school, means higher price, worse quality. That's just standard. Moreover, the fact that it would also mean less food availability is just a bonus, probably some choices. I understand that your proposal, which is against the free movement of goods within the European Union, does not make sense for citizens in the sense that we are an export-oriented economy. If other countries of the European Union start with this nationalist link, they start putting embargoes on Czech goods and, like you are trying to do, the export-oriented countries like the Czech Republic will pay the most. Czech export goods would cease to be sold and the Czech economy based on the growth of exports to the countries of the European Union, where we export more than 80 percent of our products, would collapse. This proposal threatens the economic interests of Czech citizens and the growth of living standards in the Czech Republic. I ask citizens to prefer Czech products, but let us leave it to the citizens' decision. Please don't let the SPD dictate to the citizens what they have to buy in the store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Two more factual remarks by colleague Skopeček, Jiří Bláha. Radim Fiala's priority right. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. May I?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u11	First a colleague of Skopeček, then Jiří Bláha, in the order you were logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'd follow up on a colleague, too. After all, it must be noted that there is little competition in the producer's interests to enable it to increase the price of production. The consumer's interest is as much competition as possible, which pushes the price of food down and brings even greater quality. I am very in favour of buying Czech products, but this must be on the basis of a free choice that every citizen of the Czech Republic decides itself. Neither the SPD nor anyone else can dictate to us what we will buy in Czech stores. After 1989, a free market came to the Czech Republic, which meant that we have a plethora of goods on the shelves that no one had ever experienced before. We can choose what we want today in supermarkets, and on the Internet any citizen of the Czech Republic can choose whether their basket will be filled with 100% Czech products or not. So let's leave him the freedom of choice, let's not take it away from him. Let him choose what he needs, it's his choice, it's his money, and everyone can spend their money on whatever product he thinks about himself, not what the SPD will impose on him. I'm here to protect the free market that was built here after 1989. This anti-market proposal goes against consumers, against the interests of the Czech Republic. Food self-sufficiency, in my opinion, is a very expensive project with more minus points. Even during the pandemic, even at a time when there was a wave that Czech citizens wanted to buy food supplies, it never happened that there was little food in Czech stores. I do not understand why we would have to be self-sufficient in food, as we are not self-sufficient in today's global economy in many other sectors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u13	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, so don't vote against the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u15	Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. Patrik Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, through the President, colleagues who have spoken before me, what free trade this is talking about. I've been working at the grocery store for 30 years, 20 of which I've been fighting the market. I closed it 10 years ago, and I walked out of it. It's just pressure, pressure, pressure, and that's how our farmers live. I do not know what free trade you are talking about when individual states have various subsidy incentives both from the European Union itself and from individual states. This is where you heard it clearly. And I don't know what kind of free trade you're talking about when the market decides what it buys. The Czech supplier does not want a carrot for 1.50, but buys it from Holland for 10 to sell it to our consumers for 20. That's how it is. [[Let's hear it.]] From our manufacturers buy butter for 22 crowns and sell it for 40 and from German and others buy it for 30 and sell it for 32. What kind of free trade is this? Is this how you imagine competition? Well, there's no way. This is just the pressure and use of Czech producers to fulfill their profits. It's logical. Each chain has its own suppliers that it owns abroad. So it's logical. He wants to sell his goods he made in Germany, Austria, anywhere else, and for one simple reason. Because they'll realize that if they don't have a job in the village, the village will look like us! [[The President draws attention to the expiry of time for a factual remark.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u17	Now, a factual point... Furthermore, colleagues point out that the factual note takes precedence over the priority law and that the electronic note takes precedence over the entry from the place. So now I'm going to read the actual notes... I'm registering Radim Fiala's preferential right as chairman of the MP's club. And now the factual remarks in the order of Patrik Nacher, Tomáš Martínek, Jan Skopeček, Jaroslav Foldyna reported from the place, and if he doesn't sign up electronically, other electronic entries will be ahead of him. Well, he's already signed up. Now Patrik Nacher with a factual remark. You have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I won't be here until the debate, but I have to respond to what has been said here and from my honored colleague, Honza Skopeček, with whom I otherwise agree in theory. The theory is, where there's competition, they're pushing the price, of course, and it's in favor of clients. I'm just worried that the competition here just doesn't always - I don't want to paused - work. If we take a look - I take a dTest and look at how Czech products fall there, so often they fall in the first places, they are even the most cost-effective, and then when I look for them in the chains, I often bump into them and I don't find them, so suddenly it doesn't bother me. It's one of the better ones, it's one of the cheaper ones, and I'm hardly looking for it. Or maybe it's the famous trick - I don't have it at the height of my eyes where it sells the most, but it's down there and everything. That means what Mr. Skopeček and his previous speakers said here is true. I'm just adding that in some of the moments of this thing, it's a theory, and unfortunately, in this practice, I don't always say, I never try to pawn here - but unfortunately, sometimes it doesn't really work. And whoever doesn't like it in that chain has bad luck regardless of price and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek's point of order, then colleague Skopeček, Foldyna, Holomčík. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. I only briefly, through Mr President, to Mr Bláh the baker. I understand, on the one hand, that Mr Bláha is quite in conflict of interest in voting on this bill, because it would of course suit him if he could sell his products in supermarkets and make them buy it to meet the percentages, but at the same time, he threw the rest of the economy overboard because other countries would start introducing the same embargoes on our goods in other sectors. It's just that this is really so risky, it's such a threat to the whole Czech economy that I really don't understand how someone with an economic education can be serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Jan Skopeček, then a colleague of Foldyna, with a factual remark. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. I understand that big supermarkets are pushing manufacturers on pretty hard terms, but that's just the way it is. After all, the manufacturer, it's about his free choice, whether he accepts the terms of the supermarket and will deliver to such a supermarket, or he'll find a different distribution channel than in a given supermarket to sell. After all, no supermarket has a duty to accept goods from anyone who applies, it's his business policy. There are certainly ways to sell food not only in supermarkets. I shop like small businessmen in small stores, sometimes I get into a big store, sometimes I buy right at a farmer's place. There are just a number of ways a person can buy Czech food, even in a supermarket. It's just about freedom of choice, the financial possibilities of people who want to buy food. You want to reduce their freedom of choice, you want less goods in supermarkets, less options at higher prices, because that's all it's gonna lead to. It will lead to a smaller selection at higher prices. If you think that in such a case the consumer will start buying Czech food with the glory, you are terribly mistaken because he will have even less resources for the purchase than he has today in full competition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. I would like to make a comment on my colleague, Mr Skopečka, through Mr President. I always listen to him, and I often agree with him, and I can't agree with him today. He, the representative of the right-wing party, says there is a market environment. There is no market environment in the economy of the European Union. There is a subsidy environment that deforms the market - distorts the market and puts our producers and growers at a disadvantage. We should be aware of that. I would like to say to my colleague Martínek, through Mr President. I don't know what you're doing, Mr. Martínek, but Mr. Bláha bakes rolls, you can eat them. I don't know what you're doing. So if you're shooting him here, that he's a baker, I'd say at least those bakers are baking bagels. A lot of people here haven't baked anything. Maybe they haven't even done anything yet. At least I rode a boat to Hamburg and had to bring the Czech goods and so on. Reciprocity of retaliation - European rules do not allow. That's what it said. I must stress the reciprocity of retaliation - European rules do not allow, so we are actually disadvantaged. So let's not pretend that we are equal partners in Spain, France and other agrarian countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Radek Holomčík and then Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry... I'm still running out of time, Mr President... I'm sorry that in this case, as it often is here, this debate will turn into this one, I'm sorry about the term, just a stupid black and white. I don't think there's anyone or almost anyone here who would question that our agriculture, whether first-production, then manufacturing, has a lot of problems. I've said that a number of times in this law, I've named a number of problems. I think no one is questioning that in a number of cases some trading chain practices are on the edge, but let's solve the problems as they should be dealt with. That's why we have a law on significant market power. If there is an opinion - whether here in the House, in the government, or also in the professional public - that these practices are taking place, we will open up a debate about whether the law on significant market power is correctly set, whether things persist there - some of it has been removed in the past during the amendments - whether those things persist there, whether they are dumped prices or so on. But please, let's not do this through the Food Act, which is intended primarily to deal with something else. And most importantly, you just really think that when you order a consumer, you indirectly order a consumer to buy something that helps someone? That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, now the factual comment by Jiří Bláha, Jaroslav Holík will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say, through Mr President, to all those who think that I am in conflict of interest, that this is not true. I haven't done business for ten years, and I'm never gonna do business with them because I don't need them. I'm the luck of my life that I don't need them, and I'm never gonna need them, so I'm not in a conflict of interest. I'm defending my colleagues, because the moment you need to grow that carrot for 1.50, you have to grow it on a huge breeze. And you can't save that carrot for a year, two, three, before the chain decides to buy it from you at an even lower price than that of 1.50. And that's the problem with the market economy, the theory that you're talking about, that the theory is learning beautifully. When I went to the Chamber of Deputies, we talked to a colleague from our college about how great it would be or how great it was, that it wasn't unemployment, that it was actually ideal that all the products went to business and that it worked. And all of a sudden, it was discovered that unemployment was needed, because at that point, the economy just stopped working. All the theories are for us to look at practice in the first place, and in this practice it does not work that the chain simply does not want goods from the Czech farmer because it needs to sell its goods from the country where it grows, because it has subsidies there, it has support, and support also from the European Union, much bigger than in our country. [[Does it work?]] And that's important. So there's just... there's no free market here. And for once, please understand. Look at the conditions our Czech farmers have and what the Francouz and others have, and then we can talk about it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u29	Mr. Ambassador, your time has ended for a point of fact. Now Mr. Jaroslav Holík's factual comment, Patrik Nacher will be prepared, then Jan Skopeček, Radim Fiala. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Allow me, Mr President, to address my colleague Skopeček. You prefer competition here. Yes, well, let's prefer competition. It was said here that our agriculture and manufacturing had certain shortcomings. But you think if we import elsewhere, we can help agriculture? No way. First of all. Two: if we import, we have to pay for the goods. And try to tell me if we're just gonna import and we're not gonna make anything where we get the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, Mr Patrik Nacher's factual comment, Jan Skopeček will be prepared, then Radim Fiala. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. I have to react again so there isn't something in the air that didn't sound. A colleague of the Skopeček, whom he otherwise - apart from cheering for Slavia - appreciates, so he responds to something I didn't say. I'm not defending the quotas here. I didn't vote for it, I won't vote for the quotas, but I reacted here to the difference between some theory we agree on and how it works in practice. And that's what I was reacting to, because the practice here, which I think we all agree with, just doesn't copy, unfortunately. So as much as I, as much as I'm going to talk about it, I don't support the quotas alone, so just this debate is very useful for me, because maybe a lot of people, when they go to the store, realize what they're buying, what they're making, they're going to spend more time on it, so I'm quite frankly grateful for that. But for me, it's about what the theory is and what the everyday practice is. And I'm just kind of here - I'd say it - it came to mind that in theory, we agree, but then in practice, I've given you some examples here, it's just not like that. Unfortunately, it's not like that. This means that the fact that the books say and we agree that the greater the competition, the lower the price, the pressure on the price and the cost, that's - yes, we would both get for one in the exams, but then to show it in the practice. And that's where I miss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Skopeček now, then Radim Fiala, Tomáš Martínek. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, and I'll respond to my colleague, Foldyna, and somebody else mentioned it. Yes, the common agricultural policy is crooked by the free market. If this initiative leads to trying to change the common agricultural policy, remove subsidies, quotas, all socialism, I will applaud it and be on the side of those who lobby in this. And those who suggest it don't want that. They do not want to get rid of socialist agricultural policy, they do not negotiate about it in the European Union to be more consistent with market principles, they have come up with a proposal that makes the free market even more crooked. And I simply do not want more socialism in the Czech Republic than is absolutely necessary. To my colleague: a closed economy, a protective economy, I think we can extend to other areas. We can therefore protect the Czech Škoda car company from bringing foreign cars here, we can protect any Czech company, Czech brand, from foreign competition, but I feel that we will return to where we were before 1989, when we could only buy products from the RVHP market. I don't think it was the perfect fairy tale time. And there - and now for my colleague Nacher, through Mr President - that theory really worked there, in the socialist economy. This was indeed a paradise on earth, there the low competition really led to glowing results. I do not think that protectionism, reduction of competition and price increases are the way for the well-being and well-being of consumers. I think that this really goes against his interest and that the 30 years that we live in a market economy have clearly shown that the free market for consumers, especially consumers, is testifying because they also buy far cheaper and far better food than ever before and still have the opportunity to buy Czech food. And I call them to it, that's right, but let's leave it up to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u35	Time for a point of fact is over, Mr. Ambassador. Now Mr Radim Fiala's factual comment, Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u36	I'm glad I got to the mic, I should have squeezed that tech before. I am glad that Mr Skopeček, through Mr President, has already moderated his comments and said that he is beginning to realise that the European Union is a distorted market, he was talking about the free market here earlier. I believe that there is no free market in agriculture in the European Union, that it is overregulated by subsidies, various other things, that some of the products that are produced in the West and sold in our country have both national subsidies and European subsidies, and then Mr Skopeček, through Mr President, says that we should go deal with the European Union. I imagine we're going to negotiate with the European Union, and they're going to tell us: Members of Parliament, we've done it wrong so far, we've ruined the free market, we've deregulated it, and now we're going to do it right again from tomorrow. That's not how it works. So I want to ask you how you want to face the regulation. How are you going to face the regulation? Are we going to say that we have a free market when we all know that this is not true, that food and agricultural production, which by the time they were produced, were already paid on the basis of subsidy titles and various other financial incentives and funds from those countries where they came from? And now the point: competition. I agree with you that the competition must be bigger. So explain to me - and I agree with Mr Bláha, who I very much appreciate for what he said here - so tell me, if we have less competition, how is it that if the Czech apples are worth 30 crowns? That if they're not, they'll be delivered for 80? That if he is Czech cauliflower, it costs 30 crowns, that when he is delivered when the Czech cauliflower runs out, it costs 90? Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u37	Mr. Ambassador, your time has ended for a point of fact, thank you. Now, Mr Tomáš Martínek, Jaroslav Faltýnek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. I just want to say that when I buy groceries, I look at the country of origin, as well as the Internet, as well as supermarkets, anywhere. And I would ask all citizens to do this to support the Czech economy on the basis of their own voluntary decision, and not on the basis of the dictation of the law, because that is something that is reasonable, something that will help citizens and the entire society and everyone has the opportunity to buy online, for example. There are also Czech vendors, whether it is Rohlík and so on, these are Czech companies for a large part, Košík, which is owned by the Prime Minister and so on. So there are things that... there are companies where you can buy, where you can buy good Czech quality goods, and if the goods are really at a low price and at the same time very high quality, you can definitely find your Czech consumer. [[16.50 hours]] But let's not talk about any misleading information about the possibility of reciprocal measures. Of course, if we were to violate the conditions of a free European market, not only are we at risk of arbitration from the EU, but the other countries themselves would look at us as someone, so why can they nationalistically put embargoes on our goods, and we could not do that? Of course they would, and in other sectors, probably, in those that are essential to us, in industry and so on, where we export, for example cars and so on. Please think in the complex, and not only in a close view of agriculture or some single market, which can ultimately lead to the collapse of our economy, what our economy is built on, and what ensures the growth of our prosperity and the growth of our standard of living, of all citizens of the Czech Republic. Honestly, let's look at things comprehensively, and not just in the close view, which may look kissing, but in their nature, they're destructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Jaroslav Faltýnek, Radek Holomčík and Radim Fiala with factual remarks. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. In principle, I agree with my colleague Skopeček's opinion. In this hall, if I'm not mistaken, there are at least three agricultural ministers - whether existing or former: Mirek Toman, Marian Jurečka, was now here, and Petr Bendl, who will speak. The subsidies to agriculture within the EU budget at one time amounted to 50 per cent, today it is less, the volume is decreasing. I don't know, Minister Toman will know exactly if it's 40-- plus minus -- %, and I'm sure the majority here in this hall agree that the subsidies are really distorting the market. And I would ask, in this context, through the President of all three agricultural ministers - existing and past, how many times they have proposed to abolish subsidies for agriculture throughout the EU in the Council of Ministers or the Commission for the Czech Republic, because then it would become apparent how the free market works, what the real competitiveness of farmers in each country is. I don't think either of these ministers had the courage to make this proposal, but maybe I'm wrong. I don't want to speak for them, of course. And as for this novel, which we are debating here now, or Senate vomit, it has been said here several times. It's a good thing the subject opened up. Czech farmers, food producers, are sure to be watching this debate closely and see how it works. For me as Chairman of the Agricultural Committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u41	Mr President, you too have ended the time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u42	Time. Yes, thank you. I'll sign up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u43	There. Now, Mr Radek Holomčík, will prepare Radim Fiala, and perhaps there will be time for the properly signed up debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon again. I'd like two responses to my previous speakers. First of all, for President Fiala, I totally agree with him that there is a need to deal with overregulation, that's what he said. From my point of view, regulation, if it reaches a certain volume, becomes a plague, both at Czech and European level. But let us ask ourselves: Do we really want to address the overregulation of the whole by further regulation, which is highly unlikely to be enforceable according to the statements of the authorities concerned, which is massive and which actually limits not only what was intended, that is, the sellers, but ultimately restricts consumers? I don't think it's the right way. And I would also like to give the truth, perhaps only partially, to President Faltýnek. Personally, I think that the least rapid cutting of the grant policy in agriculture for the future is probably inevitable. Of course I mean the whole of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual point of Radim Fiala. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u46	I'll just finish the story. I am pleased that we are starting to come to the substance of the matter together and that we are beginning to understand that this competition is simply not a free competition, and unfortunately it is so over-regulated that, in my opinion, if we do not cancel the subsidies, as President Faltýnek said, there is no other way but to face regulation. That's the only way we're gonna get out of this vicious circle. And I just want to say that, on the contrary, we want the competition to be. On the contrary, we also have to look at this, and that is the biggest argument why we have to introduce these things here, that the number of Czech products and producers on the Czech market since 1993, and everyone knows that, is constantly falling. It's falling, and I think it's all about stopping the Czech Republic, because all the other states are careful to see if their producers, if their farmers have sales, and they're keeping an eye on it, and we're just gonna have to take care of it, too. I see that there is simply no will to approve this law, but I am convinced that we will be back to this very soon, because Czech agriculture will so fall on the Czech market that we will have to do something. And, as MEP David said, all the countries in all the European Parliament factions are starting to have a problem with significant market power and those chains that simply have the power to deprive manufacturers and processors of the economic nature of their work, and I fear that we will really be driving potatoes from Egypt grown in sand that used to come here as feeding potatoes, and we will eat an industrially manufactured plaster mixture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by Jaroslav Faltýnek and then by Jiří Bláha. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I originally wanted to perform with priority rights, but I can do it in two minutes. To complete my consideration, the idea, the agricultural committee, which supported the SPD amendment to introduce mandatory quotas on the counters of Czech trades, Czech food, we opened the debate, and I think that is a good thing. And as Radim Fiala said, it would be nice to continue the debate, and perhaps it would be a potential amendment to the law on significant market power, which has already been adopted in this, or in the last House - then, I feel it was Mr Sobotka - who, to some extent, helped farmers, food producers to function better in relation to large customers, chains, and we would also like to continue this debate, of course. It is also possible for a debate on the Price Act, where it is possible to open these topics. And I say for myself that in this opinion I will remain consistent, I will not support the Senate version, but today at the club, and I consider it important to say this, there has been a debate, and we have also said this at a press conference - most of our club will support the Senate vomit so that at least something applies, because, as Minister Toman said correctly in the introduction, it is mainly about the double quality of food and our customers in the Czech Republic are not really customers of the second category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual remark and prepared by Petr Bendl for a normal performance. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to appeal, through the President, to everyone, to think about why the Czech farmer does not have a chance to sell his goods, which is - and we have said this - often better, is cheaper, there is no carbon footprint behind him. How is it possible that Czech apple, which do not have a chance - and I have it directly from sources, because there is a fruit region - to sell for CZK 7 kilos and in the final in the store is for 30 Czech and for 80 foreign? How is it possible that the Czech farmer does not have a chance to sell it? How is it that he doesn't have a chance to sell potatoes that are forced to sell for a crown in chains, and they still won't take them because they prefer foreign ones, and they sell for 20 crowns in the finals? Explain it to me and explain it mainly to those farmers who call out, who I speak to, who I am with, and explain it to those who grow those pigs - or raise them, I apologize - if they are not able to sell their production for 20 crowns nowadays. For 20 kroner kilos of meat, they can't sell! And they have to bring it to Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and elsewhere. [[17,00 hours]] And, of course, that's where their farmers cry again, because at the expense of that, they won't sell you Hungarian or Slovak or Polish again. It's just a vicious circle that needs to be cut and changed. And I took it as an appeal that we will be the vanguard who will say to the European Union: Yes, if you do not change the grant policy, we will do this because you have forced us to do so with your grant policies. So please think about it and let's do this together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Bendl, now duly applied for, and I will hand over the proceedings of the meeting. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u52	Have a nice day, so we finally got to a proper debate. The technical ones are always almost immediately, but few speak of the substance of what is actually being discussed. But almost nobody actually talked about it. I want to thank the senators, everyone, all voted in favour of this, because apart from the fact that this paragraph is undoubtedly contrary to our commitment within the European Union, with our commitment, with our decision, it would damage the interests of the Czech Republic, so the paragraph is not feasible. God forbid, if the law had passed, how would the Department of Agriculture and the State Agricultural and Food Inspection in practice control the uncertainty, the fact that the paragraph is so stupid that it says it has to sell. And now he says: 55 percent of food salt, for example. This is an excellent Czech product, food salt, it's one of those 150 commodities called basics. The fact that the whole level of the amendment is basically awful is not feasible is contrary to all the rules. It is a disgrace to the Czech Republic that something like this has ever been passed through Parliament. And I agree, I see my colleague Nacher over there, and I agree that the problem is more complex. And here it's made from a book sometimes third grade primary school: imperialists, evil chains, or sometimes the beginning of the past or the end of the previous century, when machines take away our jobs, and so on. So at this level of debate, we're here. I'm afraid so. The problem is really many times more complex. I know that some - or not all - voted in favour of the bill and the quotas that were probably the most involved because they are the most debatable. I also took the view of the Ministry of Agriculture, when the Minister was neutral about the proposal, in my opinion, because he knew that he would drop in front of his colleagues at the level of the European Council of Ministers, and he knew that it was not entirely kosher and that it would damage us. Among other things, because we produce food in which we are simply not self-sufficient in that category because we simply do not have conditions for some, and other countries have the conditions many times better, and instead of using the fact that we are able to get cheap food here in the interests of shoppers, and on the contrary, we have better trade with what we are able to do and what is our traditional food produced by us, in which we succeed, we say there: We want everything, and what we cannot do properly. I'm meddling in this discussion about what we should be discussing in detail because there are a number of commodities in which we are more than self-sufficient. What about the beef we're not gonna eat? If other European countries start treating us in the same way, will we be shrinking the herds? The SPD will say, "Shoot it, because we have 130 percent of beef production against our self-sufficiency." Is that what we're gonna say? That's the solution? So if they start telling us: No, you will not export grain - for many farmers it is a commodity that feeds them very well. And we are more than self-sufficient. More than self-sufficient, significantly more than self-sufficient in many other commodities. That's why I'm saying that this debate is many times more complex and that this solution from the 1950s, in my opinion, or maybe even earlier, just doesn't fit and work. In the meantime, President Faltýnek, who left, asked the rhetorical question whether we ever wanted to end the debate on the topic of subsidies to Czech or European agriculture, etc. So I had the discussions with my fellow ministers at the time, with a number of them. We talked about this, about the transition of subsidies, about their effectiveness, but also about the fact that there are subsidies and something about compensation, because farmers have to comply with a number of European ones, so let's say a decision at the level of the European Union, which we are part of, to which we have committed ourselves, and because they have to meet certain conditions, they are essentially compensated for not having to. And there's more and more of them, and there's probably more of them. That's why we're either gonna have to adapt, or we're gonna have to say, well, not anymore, we don't want anything to do with you anymore, we're gonna start doing business with somebody else, maybe in the east. That might resonate here. I just think that we should be active inside this discussion and look for solutions, because what awaits us in the future is important, let's say, elements in the direction of pressure on farmers as well as producers of wood, respectively owners and farmers in the forest industry. There will be pressure for more measures to be aimed at conservation of nature and landscape, and that will be followed by some financial, I call it compensation, because those farmers, if they want to be part of a subsidy system or support system, then they'll just have to take these measures, so the pressure will be greater. Well, that's not a debate, I'm sure the Minister spoke about it at the last meeting of the agricultural committee, and the discussions are not over, they will follow. But I'll get back to the matter and the bill. That's why I say again, I want to thank the senators very much for defending shame. I'm a little sorry that... because agriculture is full of bureaucracy, there are no exceptions to the fact that state institutions go to control one and the same, but it's not one institution. The Senate... What passed through the Chamber of Deputies was the unification of the competence of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, and the Senate divided it again. The Senate once again said: One thing - don't take my word for it - but one thing will be controlled by two institutions. That every time they see it, or that every institution often sees it differently, because farmers are just gonna say it's overcrowded, already in connection with the fact that they're taking those... someone feels like it's really super-miracle money, but what they have to do to get it all, no one really sees the paperwork that's around it. And this stamp - we had a chance to get rid of one stamp, so hygiene will continue to deal with part of the food world and the same, essentially identical, but otherwise defined, will be dealt with by the State Agricultural and Food Inspections. We could have at least got rid of this in a way. I don't think that will work, because I believe that a reasonable part of the Chamber of Deputies will rather support the Senate proposal that the shameful quotas disappear. [[17.10 hours]] Mr. - now I can't come up with his name - the chairman of the SPD club asked here: "What do you want to do? The fiala. So what do you want to do? Well, certainly not forbid imports, we all know that's nonsense, because what's self-sufficiency? What is self-sufficiency? That's the ratio between what we eat from home production and what we eat in general. The difference is what's coming. The moment we deliver less, self-sufficiency will miraculously rise. That there wasn't a lot of commodities and food here under the former regime... [[The reaction from the diaper.]] ... or was, but for someone, some had, some didn't. She had a lot, too, and we remember that oranges were being picked up in a way that when a green lady knew someone from wheels and sewing machines, they said, "Hey, I get three wheels with a switch. And I have a few bananas or extra oranges. We'll make a deal, and then you'll just bring me the money, 'cause we'll make a deal. If you look at the numbers of individual commodities, food, you will find that in many cases after 1989 the composition of consumption has changed. Although we as citizens of the Czech Republic eat about 8 kg more food against last year or year before last, it has increased by 8 kg in a year, and we eat more and more vegetables, more fruit and our options are limited. And now I'm coming to what he said here, or when Mr. Fiala asked, it's a shame he doesn't know, but I'll give him some advice, we can work something out together, just the way is the support of the small and medium ones, the way is not limited. Like this. Let's go to Austria and Bavaria. We ourselves see how people there - the locals - buy from locals, but also because they have something. The little producers and small producers have basically disappeared from our villages. When somebody said about the pigs, the pigs disappeared, we only have big pigs, big breeders. No, the manufacturer, I was just saying to Mrs Jarošová here, through the President, that pigs are not made, she behaves, but it doesn't matter. I know what she meant. And the Minister will, I believe, confirm it. I called the Committee on Agriculture to look for the efficiency of the money spent, because the production of Czech pork costs less than a billion a year. Billion! Not 100 million or 150. And I wanted to know how much it really was and how much money was used effectively. We have special national support programmes here, and I would like that, if the Minister of Agriculture can answer that, we have a programme to support production in agriculture, I don't remember exactly his number, if I find him, we have half a billion state resources earmarked to support agricultural companies with more than 250 employees. I wonder how many such companies there are in the Czech Republic. I didn't find the number anywhere, how many companies in the Czech Republic have over 250 employees in agriculture - we have half a billion in national resources for them. I would really like to know, and the use of the efficiency of these national resources, because one thing is European money and the other is national resources. Just one last comment. We are really prepared to do everything we can to systematically and systematically create an environment to produce regional or local food production. On the one hand, we are aware that it will not save us completely, on the other hand, it is the way that Mr - or I am offering this to Mr Bláh - it is, of course, when someone is doing tens of hectares of carrots, maybe hundreds of them, whether I overdo it, deliberately overreacting, so the sales are looking much harder when it is one or three of these producers, because they have to, they have to go into those chains, and something else, if there were 500 small, medium-sized ones able to sell the production in their surroundings, and that is the way that we could gradually go. I know he won't go from one day to the next, but I'd rather shoot a shotgun than a shotgun to the producers and the number of food producers in the Czech Republic. That means, more than 5,000 small shops or producers than five, because bans or restrictions on imports help those five, but not those 5,000. And I think we're supposed to do something about it, and some of the steps are being taken, I don't want to do this at all - something's going on, there are programs to support the cooperation of individual small or medium-sized farmers, that's okay, that's very supportive. Support, but really factual, physical support for those small and medium-sized ones must come. We're talking about the degressivity of payments in the future, about some kind of ceiling, so we're looking for some chance for those completely small ones to have a chance to produce something in that village, because otherwise we're going to encapsulate and get nowhere at all. So we are prepared to support the entire agricultural sector, but also to take into account the fact that the small and medium-sized ones have it harder, and we have to create system conditions for them to exist. I think this is the best way to support Czech food, which of course we support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Bláha, Mr. Josef Kott, will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u54	Dear colleagues, through Mr President, I agree with the previous speaker that today's chain policy will only help big vegetable and fruit growers in the Czech Republic, because the trade chains do not want much to work with the small ones. It's logical. If they want to make more money, it's easier to buy centrally, drive to the central warehouse and deliver all their businesses. But I certainly can't agree with him that we didn't have bananas and oranges before, of course, but why? Because we didn't have currency on them, did we! We'd rather save them to buy machines. We often did not have Czech production, in which we were self-sufficient, because we preferred to sell it so that we could have the currency. This can't happen today because we're gonna buy bananas and oranges anywhere. Maybe we'd buy them even cheaper if we didn't buy them through the chains that set the price. So you really need to think about it and tell the truth. Why were there no bananas and oranges and other exotic fruits? Because it wasn't made by a Němec? Or Polák? Or Rakušan? They won't grow it there, no way! But only because we didn't have the money. Therefore, these products were purchased in limited quantities. So let's not confuse the things we're talking about. [[17.20 hours]] Tonight, what's the decision? What the village looks like, we can tell, and what the village looks like! Previously the village was equipped - a cultural house, a doctor, all needs. Go see how the villages work today. There's nothing, there's a plain. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Josef Kott, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd just follow up on what Mr. Bláha here said to a colleague of yours, Bendl. He certainly knows that it was a tariff, where the listed raw materials or foods were produced in the Czech Republic and which can be grown and raised here. Just what you did to the little ones and the middle ones. Of course, here it is set up under the Rural Development Programme so that there are different envelopes for small, micro, medium and large. Everyone's got a chance to do it, so I'm sure you'll find it in all the different aids. It's important to see how the village has changed. I can't imagine well enough that every family in the village would be more or less self-sufficient, at least in the production of some basic food like it was. There is certainly no comparison between the Czech village and the village of Austria or Poland, because that is where agriculture, unlike the Czech Republic, was destroyed, because there was no one there to strike the theory that we would rather deliver everything. [[didn't it?]] And from the Czech Republic, in fact, the agriculture has been completely lost in this way, and what we are saying today is completely meaningless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u58	It's just that I've been approached, so to my colleague, through you. Of course, I'm not naive, and I don't think that in every village or village we can produce all kinds of these basic foods, that there's a bakery in every village and so on. But I'm sure we're not in the plains. That is what I would recommend to my colleague, that he take a look at these villages and compare it with the past. Maybe he'd be surprised. However, as far as food production is concerned, it certainly is. I live in one of these myself, and people who move there from Prague feel that when a rooster crows, something terrible is happening. That's true, because people have retired from the fact that domestic animals normally appear in the village. Pigs are basically gone, they're not, unfortunately, and we're not creating conditions for them to be created for any reason. Sheep, goats the same, horses gradually return. So I think we just have to systematically do things that are transparent, sufficiently visible. It's obviously not working out. It's probably worth thinking about what to do to make food producers have more and to make the processing industry that limps in a number of cases - the pork is probably the most visible, because when we look at the individual numbers, we find out interesting things that a significant part of the pork, even if we're not self-employed, is exported, and so on. That means the dog is buried somewhere, it's in detail. I don't think we're gonna solve this here at the House meeting, but at the agricultural committee meeting, or the relevant subcommittee, we could have that ambition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Mrs Margita Balaštíková will now speak in the general debate, and Mr Holomčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u60	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. As Members, we have a degree of responsibility, and we should have discussions, use critical thinking, and try to find an optimal solution for our citizens. The campaign that took place around this law is a lesson. It is proof that the idea of any good and the intention of any pure is suddenly lost in the flood of words, ignorance and emotions. The discussion we had around this law was certainly not relevant. Those to whom the law is intended to help did not have the opportunity to make public appearances in order to defend the needs of their citizens and their needs, and those to whom the law does not fit, on the contrary, paid expensive campaigns, not always with correct arguments. Yesterday, the Trade and Tourism Union signed up for intensive lobbying, convincing senators, you, fellow Members. And unfortunately, he used tools that attack emotions, and especially instruments that cause fear. Fear is one of the strongest emotions, and when a person is really scared, he stops thinking logically. I do not like this way of discussing, and even worse it seems to me at a time when this country is experiencing enough fear. It is fear for the future, fear for the education of your children, for your business, and also for your health and life. And taking advantage of this situation the way this company did, it seems to me, folks, but very unfair. As much as today's vote ends, we should be aware of what we have finally decided to vote on and how. For me, the atmosphere around this law is a lesson - a lesson to realize how emotional and offensive campaigns affect all of us, and to realize what really needs to be looked after for the next job: my independence, my unbiasedness and my ability to distance. To the advertising that culminated in yesterday's press release to the Trade and Tourism Union, perhaps there is only one thing I can say. According to the law, greedy agrobarons are behind the law, who lose in competition with their competitors and who need to be left to the proper limits. So far, I have not been involved in the trade and tourism union campaign, because Mr Prouza speaks for them, so I don't know if it's any of his personal account handling with businessmen, or is it really the voice of this organization. Anyway, it's obvious lies, and it's been a lot, but a lot, behind the edge. When the Trade and Tourism Union deals with businessmen, farm owners, it disrespects and insults the work of thousands of people who work in those businesses, it really bothers me because those people love their jobs and they should be addressed when we want relevant experiences. They should give us true information about breeding, about cultivation, about ecology and the approach of management of their companies, certainly not the Union of Trade and Tourism. So I ask that we also have respect and respect for these people in this heated debate, because they are people who care for our land, animals and produce food. And that is one of the things that this discussion highlighted - the need for correct discussion, factual arguments and the ability to admit to myself, on what I decide when pressing a button. The other thing isn't quite easy for me to say. I supported the law, and I still support it. But, as I said, it's good thoughts, but sometimes not entirely perfect execution, and on the minor imperfections that have come into the law, opponents try to say that it's pointless. Deficiencies in the law have facilitated a massive campaign against him, and that is another lesson I have learned: to watch over the control plan and its implementation. Maybe not rely on one expert, but they have to work on these things a team with a wide view. My aim was to initiate a discussion and open a topic of unfair conditions for Czech farmers, a topic of hidden subsidies and to ask whether the European Union's single market is really supposed to look like, and whether the behaviour of chains in our country is still a standard business, or by abuse of dominant position and by promoting its own interests against the interests of Czech citizens. I wanted to raise these questions, I will not stop asking myself these questions, and I want to ask them to those responsible for the state. Finally, there is the European Union. Who wants national governments to include protection from unfair competitions in their legislation? It is, for example, a law on significant market power. It should open again, it should tighten up and we should start actively negotiating with Brusel that there is discontent with the European Union's functionality. I certainly do not want to break up the European Union, but I want it to work for the purposes for which it was founded, and I believe it is not now. I would like to thank all farmers from this place for their work and assure them that I and thousands of other people appreciate their work, although it may not seem that way in the debates of the last few days. I am aware of the conditions you face and that you often compete in a lost race. [[17.30 hours]] Whatever the outcome of today's vote, I will not stop asking questions, and I will not stop fighting for you, and I believe that the time will come when everyone will understand that our agriculture and self-sufficiency in food production are a strategic necessity. Thank you, folks, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten will respond with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u62	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, fellow Members, Mr President. I've been watching the debate here for a long time, and of course I'm very sorry that the Trade and Tourism Union is hosting some kind of promotional event here, with the advertising being paid, that all the food that would be produced here in the Czech Republic, so it's actually all wrong. It only proves to me that foreign trade chains here devote enormous resources to making it impossible for food to be produced in the Czech Republic so that we can have some self-sufficiency. So, given the advertising that is on TV, it is only first, because, of course, the trade chains have much more resources from those foods that are more subsidized and imported from abroad. Colleagues here on this side, at least based on how they approach the policies of so-called therapeutic cannabis and the use of cannabis for recreational purposes, as well as those with regard to the cultivation of plants, have the experience of just here, but if they move in animal production, unfortunately they don't know what the livestock consume, and they say quite well here, but unfortunately the knowledge is missing there. So I think that we need to support Czech farmers, Czech self-sufficiency, and above all, we want those foods that are produced in the Czech Republic to be sold at very good and acceptable prices for Czech consumers, which is often impossible for foreign food because they are driven halfway around the world into the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u63	Sorry, time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u64	That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mr Radek Holomčík in the general debate. Mr Podal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief because I have already made several comments on the quota proposal, so I will sum up my arguments, and I would like to say two things that have not yet been said, at least not from me. We have not supported this proposal for several reasons. For one thing, it was a matter of fact, which means we don't consider the proposal well written. I have indications from various state control institutions that even if it had been passed for some mysterious reason and we had not been exposed to the European Commission's action, it would have been an unenforceable thing, and it would have cost quite a lot of money. Another reason is that it is actually based on a strange definition, when we don't tell the dealer what to have on the counter, which would still make sense, it would also be automated for those larger stores that use some ERP systems. I imagine it would be possible there. The proposal tells me how much the businessman has to sell, which, if someone's been doing retail, they kind of suspect it's just nonsense. I would like to read one of the shut-downs of AGRObase magazine's title articles, the reporter of the Agrarian Chamber, February 25th. It's an article called Let's deal with the real problems of agriculture. It addresses, among other things, this proposal and there is one paragraph to this proposal. "The amendment is certainly not ideal. Moreover, it is not easy for ordinary consumers to understand, for it is based on such parameters as the weighted average" - and now it is a very important part - "and it operates with the assumption that self-sufficiency in the most problematic items will increase due to the introduction of shares." These are neither my words nor my colleagues Martínek, nor Mr Bendl, nor Mr Jaroslav Šebek, who is President of the ASZ, and this organisation of the Association of Private Agriculture has long been defined in relation to this proposal. These are the words of Mr. Jan Doležal, President of the Agrarian Chamber. The President of the Agrarian Chamber is questioning the primary logic that if we order trades to sell, it will have a direct impact on self-sufficiency, which I in principle do not question at all, if it is not to be redeemed at the cost of breaking up the market and endangering other parts, another sector of the national economy. And that is another thing that I have asked in earlier debates, if the petitioners have any vision of what will happen if they manage to enforce this proposal, and it would undoubtedly give rise to an answer. Of course, if we started in an environment of the free market, and I do not really think that there would be a free market in the European Union, it would probably cause a similar response for other countries. Let us remember that the Czech Republic is a strong pro-export economy and 80 percent of the European Union's markets. Do we really want to gamble here with this? And do the submitters have any visions? I haven't found out yet. So for these reasons - I could talk here longer, but so much has been said - The pirates will not support this proposal or support the Senate version. But, it's important to say, we'll frown if we vote for her. And it is because we do not like the second proposal that removes from the amendment to the Food Act a clearer definition of the competences of hygiene and the State Agricultural and Food Inspections in relation to gastronomic operations. At this point in time, both these institutions can control compliance with food law. The proposal gives a clear dividing line between the operations that institutions go to. I would like to remind you that while in the case of covid, for example, large montovens and industrial enterprises, we have long lied about whether to close them, whether to limit them precisely as a result of security and epidemic measures, pubs, restaurants, the HORECA segment, we have shut down this way and no one has actually thought about it much. I think, while I understand the problem and maybe the partial unsystematicity of this solution, it could have been a signal for our innkeepers, for the restaurants, that at least we're trying to relieve them of something. I don't have the illusion that it would make them feel any more dramatic, that it would dramatically motivate them to do it, over a year, and who knows how long it's gonna take, but it would be at least a signal when we like to use the concept of sending out signals to the public. So the pirát will support the Senate proposal, because, as I say, sesame seed quotas, watermelons and other food we don't consider a good proposal if I paraphrase the classics: Quotas is not the way. But we will not raise our hand with the greatest joy. That's all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Podal will now speak in the general debate, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would start out a little untraditional. I have a pesticide consumption here in kilograms of active substance. [[It's showing a graph.]] If you look, the red graph is used in the Czech Republic. Who's ahead? Belgium, Italy, Slovenia, Portugal, Cyprus, Spain - I will not continue. The same can be said in the consumption of fertilizers. The red line again is the Czech Republic. You can see who's ahead of us. I want to demonstrate the quality of Czech food. [[17.40 hours]] Another thing: from the beginning, at least to me personally, and I also told journalists, it was quite clear that this law had no chance and no hope to pass, at least not in the form where it would help our farmers, the growers. Why? We all know how to do that. This is because the power of transnational chains is far greater than the efforts of our farmers. And a couple of us in the SPD who would like to help them, who would like us to get closer to self-sufficiency, to return the manufacturing industry from abroad, where he went because he didn't have enough commodities here. I guess I'd start with that. Next - I have to wear glasses for that. Czech agriculture is in achieved results in the utility of breeding of individual species and categories of animals at a very high level, in the EU we are among the premieres. At present, it is an important challenge for us to achieve at least approximately self-sufficiency. The time after the covid will be completely different from before the covid, we all realize that because it can happen, and I exaggerate that it will be better to have quality Czech potatoes than in the Ferrari garage. If we don't feed our people, it's gonna be wrong, and the time will definitely come. The foretaste of this time, the fair share, the righteous placement of Czech food in chains, the caricature is the distribution of vaccines. We all see how the European Union has treated us, how friendly it is trying to help us to have enough vaccines. We all know it's a cartoon, it doesn't work. And that is not how the European Union's agricultural policy will work. Everyone stands up for themselves and God for all, that's for food, and that's unfortunately for the vaccines. That's what we see in the front row. I will not continue to delay, but I just want to say that at the beginning there was really an honest effort to help our farmers, growers, to have a fair chance on the counters of strings, and not to open the scissors between the purchase prices and the prices they put on it - the margins - are giving themselves chains. It's awkward, and then the prices go up in dizzy heights, and the consumer bitches at our farmers. It's not farmers' fault, they're trying to sell. And what the transnational chains will add to it, that's rudeness, but what can we do about it? The same is true of banks that are taking advantage of the situation in the national economy today, which we all see. Whoever has the money stored, inflation is higher than the interest that the bank is giving him. So I am putting it all in the context of today's European Union. It's agriculture, it's vaccines, and it's a banking system. So I guess it's time to do something about it. But the one thing I'm really happy about is that the chains have been frightened, and today's chain situation is better than it ever was. There's more Czech goods, more quality goods. This was just supposed to be a guarantee that this would be the case in the future. Well, of course, when their horror fades, when they find out that nothing happened, that the law has disemboweled, that nothing has happened again, it will go back to the way it was. But thank God for the transition period, when they got scared and started to function in a manner of decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u69	Now with priority rights, Mr. President Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I must say that if someone outside listens or listens to this debate, they will probably say to themselves: it seems like a pretty good goal to support our domestic - Czech, Moravian and Silesian - farmers and offer consumers what we can produce ourselves here in the Czech Republic. However, the target has several pitfalls, which the previous speakers have described in many ways very well. But I would like to point out that other ways lead to that goal. Here, it is repeatedly said in many falls that our farmers - and I still consider themselves farmers - are not self-sufficient and unable to support our nation. So I'll just give you a few examples that may surprise a lot of people. We are very well self-sufficient in many commodities. Maybe we're the biggest producers in the world in food poppy production. In cumin production, we are one of the largest producers in the world. We are a country that can export malt, hops. We are a country that is fully self-sufficient in cereal production, here we are an export state, in oil production, those we can grow here. We are self-sufficient in the production of milk, in the production of sugar. Even though we have the least sugar factories historically today, we produce the largest amount of sugar - we are the exporting state in terms of sugar. We are an export country in terms of milk production. We are an export country, if we take beef and live animals, we are also an export country. The problem arises when we go to some specific items, when we export a large amount of milk and then we import some high shares of some dairy products. We're not self-sufficient, and that's true, in pork production. We are not self-sufficient in the production of fruit and vegetables. And here we need to ask ourselves why we are not self-sufficient and how we got into a state where we are not self-sufficient. This has to do with the fact that these sectors, or these sectors, whether pig meat production or the fruit and vegetable sector, are therefore highly demanding sectors for technology and investment in technology. Here, a twenty-five-year investment debt was created, especially after 1990, when to be able to invest in quality technologies in these sectors, in quality warehouses, so that such productions, such as potatoes, onions and others, could be stored in top quality for the next eleven, twelve months, it simply has not yet been fully caught up. And here we should make an effort, although this has been happening in recent years, but continue to make the farmer who can produce the product competitive, but he needs to create a quality background. Our farmers have know-how, they have a top education, and here I would see a large space where to look for support for the Czech customer to have a much bigger offer on the market in these commodities as well. And then here I see a big space also in connecting a system that is simple for the customer. When I was a minister and the current minister here was the President of the Food Agrarian Chamber, we also introduced the Czech Food Label into legislation. Today on a large number of products, when the customer chooses it on the shelf, he can come and by simple optics, if he sees the Czech flag, so he knows that the product comes from most of its origins from the Czech Republic, or some of the products there have a statement that it is a Czech product, and they are like chocolates, so there is guaranteed that the production process was made in the Czech Republic. The legislation knows the two concepts, it's easy to label. I think there is room to connect other things that work in agriculture, for example, that the farmer is now in the so-called integrated production system or that his milk production is under the so-called Q CZ quality regime. And if these things were connected to a system that tells the customer: Here you buy a product from home production and with high added value and that it was produced with respect to the environment, welfare of animals, good animal welfare, good care for the soil, this could give you in a very short time of the year, two clear advantages that the Czech consumer would know that he is buying a domestic product with high added value, a quality that supports our landscape, good care. [[17.50 hours]] And I think it is one of the ways for the Parliament of the Czech Republic to finish these things legislatively not only in this law, but also in some other regulations, so that the whole system has an endgame in simple communication with the customer. And I think these are the tools that should lead to how efficiently, without the risks and threats of arbitration, litigation, to support our domestic not only farmers but also processors, and to go this way. I'd like us to be on our way to this, first of all. And one last comment. This debate has turned to the issue of food quotas, but it must be said that this amendment at this point, if today the House accepts the Senate version, it is also a dot behind the roughly seven-year story of the fight against the issue of double quality. It was a topic that the Czech Republic brought to European level, and I was then the Minister of Agriculture, who convinced my fellow Members at the Council of Agriculture Ministers after several rounds of negotiations that it makes sense to make a European change in legislation so that we could define and eliminate this failure of many producers, as well as retailers. This amendment, which we have for almost two years in the legislative process, is doing a long time behind this story so that we can eradicate and have an effective tool to deal with the double quality of food. So here I want to thank you for finally succeeding in the long-term problem that we've been trying to solve here, getting to the finals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u71	Thank you and the last one entered into the general debate is Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u72	Dear Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief now, because I have already made my point on factual points. I will start where the former Minister of Agriculture, colleague Jurečka, ended up, and that is to say that it completely fell out of the debate that the content is actually the solution to the double quality of food. That's the basis. I'll confess here and I'll do an ad at the same time, I've already written about it in my book in 2015 End of financial illiterates in Bohemia, so two years before I even got here, it's about the double quality of food, where something with the same name, the same visual, is sold at a different price, of course, that's okay, that's about the customers, if they like it and they buy it, but in a different composition. And we've been talking about this a lot. Why is there a different composition, often less quality ingredients? That's the basic problem. If it all worked out in this theory, as my colleague here said, which I don't see right now, Honza Skopeček, we wouldn't have to deal with what the former Minister of Agriculture beautifully described, that's what we've been dealing with here for seven years, and in legislation it's two years, that's double food quality. That's one step away from what we talked about, the quotas. I'm just saying what I said before, that without the proposal that I didn't support, and now I'm gonna support the Senate version, we wouldn't even be talking about it. If the proposal wasn't here, the public debate isn't here at all, because just because someone says they want something doesn't mean it's gonna get anywhere. The fact that the proposal was here, even passed and went to the Senate, aroused a debate that properly aroused the attention of consumers. So maybe what they didn't follow so carefully and sensitively before, they're watching it at this point. Those quotas have become such a media shortcut, I'd almost say it's a clumsy set of rules that, I dare say, somewhere else they work beneath the surface, but much more sophisticated and clever. It's not on the principle of quotas. I would like to call on colleagues here for the future, because I think that the policy should be consistent when it fights against quotas, so that it fights them always and in principle - I will not support the quotas now and I will not support any other quotas that are coming to us from time to time, and I think we will still have some until the end of the parliamentary term - so I will watch closely the biggest fighters against these quotas if they fight against other quotas. Either it bothers me in principle, or it bothers me selectively. Just as a pretty good point, I don't know who, about green politics and carbon footprints, where there are sometimes such pompous modifications, often in cities to lower the carbon footprint, to limit individual traffic, and here in this case it suddenly goes completely sideways. We're not even talking about it, that some things are imported halfway around the globe, so it's also good to underline, even that's a good point to point out. Otherwise, I think that we are waiting for us and you who are experts, a debate on the development of agriculture over the past 20 years, about self-sufficiency, about market power, about who is and who is not a market maker, so that it works as my colleague Skopeček said in theory, so that it works in practice. Because when someone is a salesman, it also has a huge influence on manufacturers, and so it becomes to a large extent a market maker, and there are already some of these relationships that don't work as they would in theory. So thank you for the debate. I think that for people it was meaningful from the point of view of education and enlightenment to focus on, for example, buying Czech food, spending more time while we're at the shops. So, as I'm saying, even though I'm not going to support it, I'm happy for the discussion, and it would be good if it didn't fit the basic objective, and that's that this novel deals with the dual quality of food and how to deal with it. And I think that's the basic message we're sending today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u73	With a point of fact, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will now speak, and then with priority rights, President Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, President Jurečka has rightly pointed out here that it was the Czech Republic that advocated the absence of what is called double food quality in Europe. Yes, that's when Minister Jurečka worked on the European Ministerial Council. However, for the sake of historical truth, here I will remind you that it was then Mrs Olga Sehnalová, a Member of Social Democracy, who had the first analyses done and as MEPs opened this issue in the European Parliament. And I am very glad that my colleague Jurečka said that today we will do a dot behind this annabáze, for this effort to ensure that Czech consumers also have the same quality food as consumers in all other European countries. Thank you to Olza Sehnalová, and thank you to Minister Toman that they really deserved it, and the minister completed the whole work, along with everyone who voted for it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. President Vlastimil Válek in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u76	I will not speak, thank you, Mr President, for a long time. I would very much like to thank the previous speakers, Patrik Nacher, through Mr President, and Mr Jurečka, through Mr President, for returning the debate to what is the substance of the matter. It is a good thing that the dual quality of food has been resolved. It's good that the Kofola I drink here is Czech food, everyone can buy Kofola, no one can stop it, they don't have to buy Coca-Cola, they'll be the same Kofola anywhere, they'll be in the same composition, in the same quality, and I'm grateful for it. I'm grateful that a pea is gonna be a pea and Milka Milkou. [[18.00 hours]] I understand that many of us and perhaps all of us, either because we are farmers or because you are consumers - I represent consumers in the agricultural committee rather than farmers, because I am more a consumer and I am not a farmer, so we want to support Czech products, Czech food, we want them to be on the Czech market, and nothing prevents us from buying them. It is a good thing that the question has come to an upheaval and at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, because I believe that the Chamber of Deputies is to address these issues, to draw attention to them, and it is a good thing that citizens are aware, on the basis of our debate, that such problems exist. But it is not good for us to travel, though paved with good intentions, to hell, and I am convinced that those amendments, which I did not support either in the Committee on Agriculture or here in the Chamber of Deputies, even if they were good intentions, were on the way to hell. Therefore, I would like all producers of Czech food and all consumers to have Czech food available to them, as is the cafeteria in Parliament, so that every consumer and consumer can buy Czech food is available to him and there is nothing stopping him. And definitely me and my colleagues will do everything we can for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Calm down, please. Mr Brázdil has yet to come forward for a general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u78	Good evening, colleagues, colleagues. I have informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies that it is possible to read in this version, i.e. when we will vote on the Senate version, the accompanying resolution. It already happened in 2015, I didn't know, but I got this information. I'd like to challenge all of you to one. As we listened to the debate, we all agree that people in our Republic should try to buy food, but also products produced in the Czech Republic. Therefore, I would not offend you if I asked you for an accompanying resolution, which - and it seems that we will adopt the law returned by the Senate - would be very simple: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and thus recommends the citizens of the Czech Republic to buy food and products produced in the Czech Republic." Please, yes, Mr. Stanjura is going over his head like it's something bad. I understand from this that all of you who have listened to this debate today wanted the products produced in this republic to be bought first. So forgive me for bringing this up, and I will leave it now available and for a possible vote, Mr President, because such an accompanying resolution can be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u79	Yes, Mr Member, we will proceed by agreeing or voting on the bill, so we will return to your accompanying resolution. I will then ask you to read it to us again, also because we do not have a rapporteur and the rapporteur is the Senator. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u80	Thank you for the floor. I guess I'll just apply to the unusual procedural situation now. I want to make sure that we vote this accompanying resolution in any case, or only if we approve one of the versions of the law, because it is customary that if the law does not approve, then the accompanying resolution is not voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u81	Then we will consult on the outcome of the vote on the law as a whole. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. The Minister and the Senator have an interest in the final word. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u82	So, once again, hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to thank you so much for the wide, detailed debate. I think she was mostly correct. Just a few comments on support for small and medium-sized people. I would like to point out that all the subsidies granted by the small ones, so all the applicants were 100 per cent satisfied, the big ones were satisfied deeply below 40 per cent. So we don't say we only support the big ones. The second thing is the support of small and medium-sized companies - it cannot mean that we will resign on the Czech condition of large companies. We have companies that guarantee us the processing of domestic milk, and supply to chains, butchers and so on and so on. So thank you all again. At the same time, I would like to thank you for supporting this Senate proposal, because today really will be the end of the dual quality of food and Czech consumers will not be consumers of the second category. And please, let me draw your attention to one more thing. By approving the Senate bill, there remains support for small regional, local food producers who will be able to deliver to schools, hospitals, public establishments, which means that they will be able to be given priority in public procurement. This means support this Senate proposal for this other reason. I am aware that I propose to approve something where I did not agree that it should not pass under the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, that is, it is not simplification. However, in the interests of consumers and in the interests of all of us, I recommend that we approve the Senate proposal. So thank you again for that, for the debate, for the correct debate, wide and detailed. Thank you and have a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u83	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the final word of the senator is still in front of us. I beg you to calm down so we can hear what the senator has to say. Thank you. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a few notes. Because I don't come to the House so often, so I wanted to thank you all, I just enjoyed the three hours. I wanted to thank you for all the stimulating comments and suggestions. As the guarantee rapporteur for this law, which concerns agriculture, I have been following the whole process of creating this law from the outset and I would like to explain a little bit to my fellow Member about the amendment to the State Agricultural Inspection. I wasn't in favour of this proposal either, but I'm just going to explain it laconically. Unfortunately, I don't know if thank you, because it was about hygiene, and, as we know, the doctor, then the hygienist, again approached fellow Members or Senators doctors, and it simply won the doctor's lobby and the amendment was accepted by a difference of several votes. But once again, I recall that the amendment, which was approved by all the votes of the Senators present at the meeting at the time, was 77. So once again, I point out that this proposal also has support, and I thank you in advance if this proposal and the amendment will be approved. [[Gong.]] Otherwise, one more comment to conclude. It's more like that, because I'm a country person: I realize there were a lot of words going on in this debate, but often empty, I don't want to talk about beating up empty straw right now. But just let me, my father, a farmer, a long-time peasant, always said - in the end: when he beats his mouth, it hurts the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, Senator. We shall now proceed to the vote under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 502/10, as approved by the Senate, House printing 502/11. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45. Registered 188 Members, for 146, against 5. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I now ask Mr Brázdil to present the motion for an accompanying resolution, as has been said in the general debate, now he will just repeat it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u86	Colleagues, colleagues, it is very simple, and listen to me, uncontroversial: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends the citizens of the Czech Republic to buy food and products produced in the Czech Republic." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u87	That is the motion for a resolution. [[Noise in the hall]] Before we vote, President Jurečka has signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Please -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u89	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. I will not comment on the motion for a resolution, let everyone judge according to their common sense how to deal with it, but I would like to thank the Senate here that the Senate was able to have a reasonable view of this amendment and to correct what was not succeeded in the Chamber of Deputies voting about two months ago. So I thank the senators and senators for this step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. And now we will vote on the motion for an accompanying resolution, as presented by Mr Brázdil. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 46. Registered 183 Members, for 98, against 1. The motion was accepted. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you, Mr. Minister, I am done discussing this point. Now, let's look at the point.
