ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 1116/4/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 1116/5. The information with the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Šárka Jelínková among us and ask if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová would speak first for the plaintiff for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled, and then I will ask for further speeches under the Rules of Procedure. [[Some Members are discussing in a noisy way.]] Madam Secretary, I will not say a word to you yet, because I have to ask the House for peace and debate on other topics to bring their discussions into the foyer. The word will be given to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I would like her to present her performance in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen, very briefly. I beg you to support the Senate version, which is flawless. This is record support for families with children. Just for your information, I remind you that we are valorizing child support by 26 percent, increasing motivational bonus for working families to 500 crowns, doubling the number of families that reach child supplement to almost 500,000 children. The income of dependent children from dependent activities will not newly be included in the entitlement to all benefits of state social support. This means, for example, that if children go to practice, their parents will be interested in doing so because they will not lose social benefits. We change local jurisdiction of regional branches of employment offices from permanent residence to place according to actual residence. We are now introducing the opportunity to pay the parental allowance if it was not exhausted at the birth of another child and we are increasing the discounts on the child. This is record family support, and I therefore beg you to support the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u3	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I will now ask Senator Šárka Jelínková to comment on the Senate resolution. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the government, Members of Parliament, let me give the Senate version very briefly. Minister Maláčová has briefly summarized it. The Senate took on this law rather as a repairman of some shortcomings in this law and I will briefly sum them up for you. One of the things was the change in jurisdiction of the employment office, which Mrs Maláčová mentioned. So we have added transitional provisions in the Senate, which, of course, give more light to these changes in labour offices. We also took the liberty of adapting the amendment by Mr Juchelka, who makes it possible to pay the one-off and unlimited - yes, here is the Member's health - an unlimited parental contribution. As set up, only a very small number of parents were involved. The Senate bill extends this circle of parents who receive it. And the third important change still helps to apply security, and it concerns the discounts on children that have already been mentioned here, so we have increased this amount by 5 crowns per child, so that the amount is divisible by 12, because we want to make it possible to draw these discounts on children monthly since 2022. So that it wouldn't make it difficult for the accountants to calculate these things, so we made it a divisible number of twelve. This is only a very small, decent increase in these discounts for children. This is a very brief summary of Senate corrections to this law. Otherwise, we did not touch the increase in child allowance or the extension of the range of recipients of such child allowance. So I'm also asking for your support. I am also prepared to answer any questions afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u5	I thank Senator Šárka Jelínková and ask if she is interested in commenting on the Senate's amendments, Mrs Jana Pastuchová? He's not interested. In that case, I can open the debate. First of all, I have the priority right to apply to Vice-President Tomio Okamura, and Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we will now be voting on the proposal for an SPD proposal in this proposal, namely the amendment by our Member, Lucie Šafránková, that the child allowance will be increased to working parents. This amendment has also been agreed by the entire Chamber of Deputies, agreed by the Senate, and now we will vote on the Senate version. I'm just gonna zoom in on what the SPD did. The child allowance was increased for working parents, businessmen, parents who care for disabled children or for parents who retrain and actively seek work from 300 to 500 crowns. So we have been able to really fulfill another important point in our political agenda, and that decent and working people are in the first place. I wanted to thank most of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies because we got away with it here. I also wanted to thank the Senate for agreeing to our proposal, and now we are before the last step in voting on the Senate version, and I hope that it will pass so that decent and working parents will receive more money thanks to the SPD amendment, and they will have a new 500 crowns of child allowance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u7	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, Olga Richterová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly, but allow me to express the opinion of the KDU-ČSL club on this proposal. We very much welcome this proposal because it is the support of families with children, when the parental contribution is increasing. But I must say that we also want to support working parents, families with children, and we are not in favour of handing out large-scale distributions to anyone, and that is why we are glad that our amendments to the Chamber of Deputies have gone through our amendments concerning tax deductions, where more money remains in the wallet for working parents. And I would like to thank the Senate here because Senator Jelínková mentioned here that the Senate modified the sums that came from the Chamber of Deputies - unfortunately, they could not be divided by twelve. That means that the tax deductions will be felt by working parents every month, and it won't be any amount per year, which is really nice. [[15.40 hours]] Then I would also like to say that we also welcome the proposal to adjust parental contributions in small children, which means that if someone is born shortly in a row, so that they can finish their parental allowance, because then they were reduced, and the care for two children is still the same. So I think it's an excellent support for families with children, and we need children to be born and families to want children. So I would like to thank the Members that our proposal for tax deductions went through and that he went to the Senate. I also thank the senators for the repairs, and I would like to ask you to support this bill, because I think it is very useful, and, as I have already said, it supports families with children and also working parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Golasowská. Now, Mr Juchelka and then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u10	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr Golasowská and Mrs Senator, for complimenting my amendment on the payment of the parental contribution. It is a great help for families, for multiple families who are born a child as a stair so that they can be supported financially, of course, because, as we know, caring for more children in the family is very difficult not only physically, mentally, but also financially. I also thank the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies very much that they supported other two amendments that support the activity of the families themselves, the work activity of the student, and that is that practical instruction and also the brigade will not be included in the common income of the family. This is because if, of course, a college student in Brno - and his family live in Ostrava - works and earns a living studying, his younger siblings, who take child support, will not be beaten for making money in Brno and thus somehow helping the family, while being 200 kilometers away. So thank you so much for allowing us to adopt these two amendments here and in the context of some prevention of the grey economy, and I firmly believe that we will continue to support not only multiple families in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u11	I thank Mr Juchelek. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, at this point, the last one entered into the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I would like to be as sunny as my previous speakers, but I simply cannot, because family policy is not what it should be. As far as one very positive thing is concerned, I would like to stress that the Senate has succeeded in fulfilling its role. The Senate has repaired what needed to be repaired, and I am very glad that we are two chambers of Parliament and that such rapid repairs are possible. I would also like to stress that we supported the payment of the parental allowance, knowing that in some cases the paid allowance may simply fall - to be paid directly within the framework of the executions, to be directly credited to the account of the executors. We think it's a bit of a shame there wasn't a question about this insurance policy, but it's already done, maybe we can get to it in the future. However, as a person who has been trying to pursue family policy in the long run from the point of view of how the whole state should support families, because, and this needs to be emphasized, demographic development is quite unfortunate in our country, so from this point of view, we do not quite encourage the creation of families. I want to stress that we have had a similar debate here once, and it was with the parental contribution, when I asked why it is not validated regularly, so that people know that their parental contribution will increase by inflation, as prices are rising, as the cost is increasing, that the value it takes for the parental contribution will remain the same. That didn't work, I believe it will happen someday, so there are no fixed amounts in the law. What I did, however, and what I owe the support of a number of colleagues, is the fact that the monthly limit has increased, the monthly ceiling for people, when both parents of the child are businessmen, or, for example, the mother who got pregnant in college and hasn't been able to work out yet, so she didn't have a mother, and I was inspired by specific examples of people I know and I know that it would really be against the meaning of our country's family policy to keep the parental allowance limit at 7,600 what she was then. We managed to increase it by inflation to CZK 10,000 a month in this House. I'm very grateful for that. Unfortunately, at the time, if I am not mistaken, Madam Secretary, who sits here, was opposed, but it worked out in practice, and I will say why. Because if a person is dependent on social welfare with a small child, that is roughly the amount that a small child can receive within the family to support housing and livelihood and nutrition. And just because the numbers showed that the amount couldn't be abused, it was perfectly logical. On the other hand, it gave the impulse to people who might be making decisions, and I want to stress if, if they unexpectedly get pregnant, if they keep the child, it gave them the impulse that the state took into account that there should be some basic certainty in parenthood, the basic, possible, voluntarily chosen limit, of course, monthly contribution up to the 10,000 crowns, and for people who do not meet other conditions. Now, why am I talking about this? Because everyone still knows it's not systemically anchored. It was just a fight, it was about votes, it was against the government coalition's opinion, and it was something that meant that family politics was not taken systemicly and conceptually. Again, all the countries of Europe have a demographic curve that is unfortunate, but in our country it is particularly painful that care for seniors and care is, in general, heavily based on the so-called informal caregiver, or it is anchored in families, and therefore I just want to emphasise that we stop looking at family policy as such only through the optics of benefits. Here we have quite elaborate, but desperately lacking services, desperately lacking support for all that families need in different life situations, and desperately lacking perspective, certainty, planning just through a clear approach of the state that so and so after years our system of maternity and parental contribution has evolved, it is good, it is very flexible, for people who work, it offers a lot of possibilities, and at the same time it is a reasonable basic certainty especially for women who get pregnant in some unexpected situation. And now I want to point out that we are following these very conflicting theories in our country. One is that the family is the foundation of the state, and the other is that the state has nothing to say to families, that the state has nothing to do with family politics. But it's actually that we have a family policy kind of everywhere and nowhere, not in a conceptual way. And once again, it is a thing that is reflected in this proposal, once again it is purely levying or possibly affecting taxes, but it is again done without the larger, wider vision. [[15.50 hours]] And what I want to point out is that it works for us in the future, so that young families know what they have to count on from the point of view of how the state is set and its support, so I wish that family policy should stop being fragmented under different ministries, so that these things stop being a matter of different priorities for different ministers. I would like to point out that there are countries where the aspects of families are being addressed under the same roof. The second democratic coalition of the SPOLU has put a change in its name even directly into the program. We did not go that far, but we also considered it because it is very important to recognise what all the contexts are going away with us, because there are often disagreements between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports - and we have witnessed this at the moment. And that's one more thing I'm going to stress. It really isn't sunny at all when so many long months could have been fought over children's groups, when so many long months no one has dealt with - in those ministries I think - it is not possible to leave 16,000 places for young children in complete uncertainty. And I would point out that I think that this is a cultural leap and a cultural shift that we have to do if we want to go as a country where we belong - and I am convinced - and also if we want to prosper economically. Because only those countries where there is a real freedom of choice in reconciliation of work and care, where there is a possibility of being part-time in contact with professions, only those countries can benefit from education in the long term, especially for women who are most caring, and only those countries can handle the challenges of the future with regard to population ageing. And all this is a family policy that this state neglects. I would like to point out that we have one of the highest shares of so-called informal care in our circle. Informal care means that there is not always enough service and support in all regions for those who take care of their aging parents, or for those who are in some way intensively engaged in their children with disabilities or some serious illness, and that support is definitely no longer systemic. Now I'm talking about a care allowance where there's really no clear overview of the work offices that decide how the family is doing. I would like the informal carers to be systematically supported by the municipalities, or directly by the communities where each of us lives. And I just want to see on this aspect where you can take care of someone at home for years and no one will ever come to ask how you're doing and how you're handling it, show how unsystematically our country is progressing in this absolutely crucial area of our lives. The last thing I'm going to mention is the lack of funding for prevention. That's the cheapest tool. Prevention is something that precedes problems in time before they really deepen. And again, we're here to approve a law that I think is useful, that it's okay, but we're not even talking about the fact that at the same time, the guaranteed amount of money to prevent, prevent problems. Even social work in municipalities is not guaranteed, but it goes through subsidies. I would like to point out the huge paradoxes of Czech family policy, how it has developed over the past 30 years, and what I think is not sustainable in the future, because it is precisely prevention that is the cheapest and most effective. By the way, prevention means not only aspects that are addressed by the Ministry of Labour, but also cooperation with education, with kindergartens and work with children who have an uneven start, and their support as soon as they enter the kindergarten, and perhaps teachers in kindergarten will notice something. How is it worth it? I'm going to repeat one number here from a very important American study. A dollar invested in a child from such a more endangered family - sometimes called a family that gives less incentive to a child - so one dollar invested at the age of two or three will save nine years in the future. That's just the best investment. And so I would like to have such an ability for our state to devote itself to what really works, to prevention, to long-term prospects, to be clearly, in a predictable manner, both parental contributions and, in general, the support that families draw. But at the same time, in order not to neglect those services, enough places in childcare services and sufficient flexibility for parents to have real freedom of choice, as well as sufficient support for those who are caring - today, as I have already said, informal caring in our country is often very difficult. I also wish for a very active option and support for my father, involvement in care. I think that society is developing in the long run and that people simply choose what is appropriate for them, but that would be worth emphasizing. Families where both are involved in care are more satisfied and stable. Of course, it's every choice, only this is shown from very interesting insights about the very stability of relationships and life satisfaction. And that brings me to one more topic, to promote partnership, to support the fact that family policy also means admitting that it doesn't teach us in any school what it's like to be in a long-term partnership, to take care of children and so on, but that in adulthood, many people say that it's not easy to get professional help when crises come. We have family centers. Thank you for increasing their support under Minister Maláčová in recent years, and I am very grateful for this. Otherwise, I want to say, it's subsidising again, it's unsettling, it's long-term uncertain. As far as the systemic, systematic approach is concerned, I would really like the families to be taken into account in any legislative changes across the agendas, across the ministries. Once again, I would like to stress that very often the impact on families is due to a law that originally did not work at all. And the possibility of a more even distribution of care in the family, that's something we support through something I think has a great chance of passing through here, and that's a slight extension of the paternal after the birth of the child. At the same time, I believe that much support should also be given to community neighbourly activities and, overall, an offer of leisure activities for children whose families simply do not have enough money to be able to pay them often quite expensive rings. One more thing I would like to see family policy linked to effective support for what works, associated with school attendance. And again, you're gonna think that's another topic. I just want to point out that other countries often deal with this tied up, so that the family is just the successful basic unit where they work with all its members, including, of course, parents, so that the child, who, in some way, either started to skip school or has problems at school, is not the only one who is involved in the role of the culprit, but to deal with the whole family system, because mostly the cause is in some context and often in the whole family. Those aren't easy things. And that's where we lack the tools, and I think I understand how complicated these things are. But there are examples of good practice, I think it's something to inspire. And I am very pleased that, for example, in another topic related to partnership, namely the subject of dignified, both friendly divorces and breakups, such a cochemic practice inspired by the model is being promoted. And that's the last thing I'm going to stress as something we consider to be a way for society to go forward, promoting the ability of mutual cooperation and trust, even if people break up. [[16.00 hours]] As I have already mentioned, family centers, possibly supporting the possibility of therapy, whether married or related, or also educational counseling, that is one thing. Even better, of course, is prevention, or meaningful relations helping in partnership and parenting even before there are any serious problems, but also the state guaranteed possibility of a dignified breakup through meaningful adjustment of related procedures. I want to stress that this has a positive impact on children and also on the future sense of responsibility towards children. The positive effects, with emphasis on cooperation and mutual agreement, are enormous. The aim of family policy is to enable young families to plan their future as easily as possible, so that everyone knows how they can plan their family and work life in the long run, so that they do not expect changes from one parliamentary term to another. No one in their lives is governed by the government, and so should families be sure that when there is a difficult situation in life, the system will be sufficiently clear that it will not be lost. That's, like, a huge problem today, sometimes even for carers. Of course freedom of choice is crucial. There are different approaches to life, we are all different, but it is equally important to realize that freedom of choice is linked to whether that choice is practically made possible. This is precisely the availability of various types of services in regions or the availability of places for children, even in large cities. There are two topics that are very different in terms of availability, but having freedom of choice on paper does not solve anything. That's the point. One more thing, of course, is the goal, so that everyone can choose how they want to reconcile work and care, so that no one has to choose between family and career, but in order to be able to choose either one or both, they are really open to everyone, even through more flexible opportunities for the involvement of parents and carers for business, as well as through really clear tax arrangements. I would like to stress that, in addition to the regular valuation of the parental contribution that we have already proposed, and the increased monthly limit that we have pushed through, we have also demonstrated on the online calculator how clear it would be for parents if it were easy to calculate what anyone is entitled to and where it would be known for the future - according to inflation, according to price growth. It must also be for municipalities, I stress for municipalities, for mayors and mayors, predictable financing of social work and social services. One more thing. Overview is something that everyone, employers and employees complain about. The state should have a web site, an online portal where everything is really readable and understandable at the same time. We made such a portal at least on the web www.socialnissystem.cz . There is not much to be said about employees and employers, but there is at least a complete overview of the Czech social system in terms of benefits and other aids. Let everyone know that it is clearly and clearly black on white on the web www.socialnissystem.cz, clickable according to life situation. Finally, how much will it take to make a good family policy? I want to stress that. A high-quality family policy simply pays off to the state, and not only in the long run in a larger number of children, in the fact that we do not face the deep demographic crisis that we are facing, but also by meeting the potential of our country and by bringing the children who can truly fulfill their options to our country the wealth and fulfillment that I think we have a chance to have. As far as preventive support is concerned, whether it be those consulting services or community services, I would like to point out: these are expenditures in tens of millions of crowns. But the spending is more than offset - and now you may be surprised - by the increased efficiency of the labour market and the productivity of employees. Let me give you one particular example. Even the U.S. Army has resorted to providing their soldiers, their employees, couples therapy or counseling because they have found that they are then less ill or simply last longer overall at work. Prevention - even in relationships and couples - is simply really paying off. What do I want to point out in conclusion? That I don't want to tell any family what to look like, but that I want to support it in different life choices so that it is really voluntary and free and, at the same time, that it can actually be done as quality, as satisfying as possible family life and as satisfying as possible relationships. I think that's how you get to know a happy company when people can fill this side of their lives, not just the work side. I find it important not to forget it. Because there is a high divorce rate in our country and that education is not oriented towards important skills for life, such as working on relationships, I stress that we lack awareness of the possibility of preventing crises or working with crises and that we also lack the very ordinary things that we all know about, such as places in kindergartens. Not everywhere, there are plenty of them somewhere, but overall, within the whole country, there are particularly larger cities where the places are missing, and if there were more places in kindergartens, there would be two-year-olds, but since they aren't, so are the key children's groups, but that's what I've been talking about. Finally, I will stress that many of the things I have mentioned are inspired by the regions and municipalities where something specific works in our country, but also by studies, research that has worked well in the world. Family policy doesn't have to be an attempt-mistake. Family policy may not be "try and see" at all, but it can build on proven foundations. I was talking about prevention in the smallest children, where one invested dollar will be spent for nine in the future. I am talking about the fact that family policy must not end at the borders of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but it must concern the assessment of the vast majority of the legislation that passes through this House, and we must realise that if we are not lying, when we say that family is the foundation of the state, we must assess, from the perspective of families and the impact on them, as far as possible, all legislation. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that family policy will receive the attention it deserves in the future, and that the freedom of choice that is often referred to will really be able to be implemented so that it does not simply remain in the pronouncements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u13	That was the last one entered into the debate. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I did not draw attention to this at the beginning of Mrs Richterová's speech, but I am now drawing attention to that. The discussion is held at first reading, second reading, third reading, and then when we have the law returned to the Senate. Please note that if this does not concern the difference between the House and the Senate press, I will take the floor. [[Let's hear it for members of the government coalition.]] [[16.10 hours]] No one else is reporting for the debate. I see Mr. Ferjenčík. [[Noise in the hall. Scream from the left: Brother Sandokan! Laughter on the left.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to your words, and I think the President should be neutral. If four years here works chairing in some way, then at the last minute purposefully changing it doesn't feel right. I really think that if there are some established practices here, changing them because you want to push through the power of some legislative paquilas is not the right way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u15	Dear colleague, the rule in place was that the debate was really going on as it should, that is, in the general part at first reading, in the general and in the detailed part at second reading, in the third part at second reading, the debate was no longer going on. [[raised voice]] This is a rule only during this parliamentary term, which has, in fact, changed the written Rules of Procedure. And the need to focus on what is written text, not on what may be the content of this or that press, is true. And that's why I didn't take the floor with my colleague Richterová because I didn't warn her that I was going to. I have brought this to the attention of the others, and it is my duty, not my right, to lead Members to order and to speak to the point. Neither was part of the difference between the Senate and the House press. Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard some excuse that the pirát here are blocking the bill that we agree with, and it is a law that supports decent and working people. We have a law before us that has decent and working parents, families to raise by two hundred additions to housing thanks to the SPD amendment, and now the pirát are blocking it and talking about it being a pasquil. This is unbelievable. Mr Ferjenčík says that there is an amendment from the SPD pen. [[Named responds from a place.]] Yes, you said that the proposal is a pasculi, which increases from CZK 300 to CZK 500 to support working families and support parents who take care of an invalid child. Well, that's incredible what you guys are doing here already, pirát. You know, you're talking about pasquila, that's why you're blocking it. Well, I'll give you another example of the bill you're blocking too. Mrs Richterová here had endless monologues for the pirát, Vice-President of the pirát. Well, that's the SPD's proposal to abolish abuse of doses inadaptable. Because of you, you are now in danger that this bill will not even pass this term. It would save half a billion crowns, which we could regroup towards decent people. So what you call pasculi is a purposeful proposal that simply doesn't fit your political agenda, and your political agenda is to support the inadaptable. Your political agenda is that you're blocking an increase in $200, $200 extra for decent and working families. I must say that the pirát are a great danger to every decent and working man in the Czech Republic. [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] Because your neo-Marxist program... And let me remind you again, he's here right now, and finally, after a long time, the chairman of the Pirates, Ivan Bartoš, has arrived, so I'll remind you again of his statement. You said you wouldn't mind if Europe was Muslim in 15 to 20 years, and then you made excuses that it was a youthful indiscretion. But what is interesting is that long after, many years later, relatively recently, you actively participated in a demonstration in Prague entitled "Rescapers, welcome to the Czech Republic!". So you have completely consistent views. And it's just pirát politics. Well, I'm glad it's gradually unraveling here. And the more we watch your vote here, when you're against decent people, against working people's support, you encourage inadaptable, so on the other hand, it's a good thing you're applying to it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u17	A factual point, Mrs Jana Černochová, then Mikuláš Ferjenčík, then Vice-President Pikal. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u18	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I strongly urge you to respect the Rules of Procedure. I applied with a factual remark before Mr. Tomio Okamura applied with priority rights. What you're doing here right now is absolute bending of the Rules of Procedure, including the attack on the fact that, in the third reading or, respectively, the backs of the Senate, there is no debate here. That's some news. Vice-President Filip, apply this to the KSČM meetings, not the Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, by your means, I would like to respond to you. I would also like to say that it is very important to mention what things are sometimes missing in the law, because this is also an essential matter concerning the legislative process, the things that this honourable House has forgotten. First of all. Secondly, I wanted to respond to a colleague of Okamura, who is probably confused today because I have not spoken at all about this law, which we fully support both in the Senate and in the parliamentary version. I was talking about the building bill, which is pasculi, so your attack was completely unnecessary. And next time, please improve in your psychic abilities. If you're trying to read someone's mind and react to something I didn't say at all, then do it better, because you're not very good at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President Pikal with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u22	Mr. Vice-President, I'm more of a... I would like to make it clear now whether we are heading to the point and calling all the speakers to the point, or just those who do not have priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u23	I cannot lead to order except that I can tell them, those who have priority rights, Mr Vice-President. But those who have been given the floor are to speak to the point. That's my duty, and that's what I've been trying to do here. I didn't interrupt Mrs Richterová, and I said that I would only apply it from the following speakers, because it really wasn't customary, and the memorials... I don't see my colleague Marek Benda here... can confirm that the division of the discussion into these blocks was really a custom here and we kept it. Now Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u24	Now the pirates are trying to get out of this and make excuses, but that doesn't really affect me at all. I know what and how and how it works here. You guys are just trying to block the support of raising child support for decent and working parents. That's all. Yeah? That's all. And as for the pasquila, I've been losing what's always been the pasquila you've been blocking for hours. For example, a very good and high-quality law, especially when it has been completed with many other Members here, the SPD proposal to end the abuse of benefits inadaptable. You just support the inadaptable. We know that you support inadaptables. A lot of people also write to me on Facebook after the obstructions of Mrs Richterová, various people write Romani nationalities because this is also seen from the photo that they are Romani nationalities, they write: We will vote for the pirát because they are watching your obstructions. But that's okay. We don't distinguish who he is or who he is. We also have Romani members in the SPD, that's okay. But the fact that your position of support for the so-called inadaptables inspires widespread support for these groups, too, is simply a fact, and that is your policy. You must be looking for voters. We're looking for voters in decent, working people. And you're still making laws that help decent and working people. That's all. [[16.20 hours]] And when I get back to your meeting. You had this on the Internet in the 2017 electoral programme that you would agree, for example, with the referendum law, where people will be able to vote on whether there will be a referendum to withdraw from the EU. You double-crossed the voters, too, and then you forgot about it. Then you agreed here on a comprehensive amendment of four parties, ANO, ČSSD, Pirates and KSČM, and you said that it doesn't actually have to be there. On the contrary, the SPD has consistent views, and we insist that it be there. So it's with this whole thing of yours where you're always saying something, and then you're always screwing around, you're promoting something else, and then you're making excuses that it was a compromise -- look, we've known that before, I've seen you here for almost four years. So let's just get back to the facts. Here it was originally said that the debate over this law, because there is a general consensus here, will be a few minutes that everyone wants to support decent working people. Well, we have forgotten that there will be members of the pirát who, of course, want to block it. And I appeal again to you: Colleagues, support it so that decent and working families get a few extra hundred extra to add children, because they just deserve it! Prices are rising, costs are rising, food prices are rising. Those kids -- they're families that are often low-income, which are good for every hundred. So support them, please, and the pirát, stop blocking the support of working families with children! It's important! I know you prefer the inadaptable ones here, but we prefer working parents with children, and I hope it's most of them. Well, don't hit the bench here! It's true! You're keeping it here! So some punching your hands into the bench isn't gonna help. That's right!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u25	In fact, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Holomčík's comments. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would dare, by your means, to respond to my previous speaker, colleague Okamura. First of all, if you look at this board right here, there's exactly zero entries to the debate. If you hadn't built this place, it would have been a long time ago. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] So don't throw it at us! First of all. And secondly, yes, your proposal, which in your populist war against inadaptables throws into one sack disabled pensioners and people with mental illness and causes them great harm, is pasculi, you said well, and of course we are fighting against it completely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. If no one is reporting, I am ending the debate and signing up with the final word of Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u28	Thank you. I apologize to everyone because I promised everyone it would take five minutes. That didn't take five minutes. We got a lecture on family politics. I remind you that this was supposed to be an anti-crisis measure to help families during the pandemic. The negotiations lasted eight months, now everyone's lashing out as they want the law, so please prove it by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-13-ps2017-111-04-002-003.u29	Thank you. If there is no interest in another final word, we shall proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'm gonna check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'll get back on track. And I propose: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, pursuant to House press 1116/4, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 1116/5.' I've started voting number 146 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 146, from 178 in favour of 177, against 1. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted this law. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Senator, and I'm done with item 3. The next item is the item number
