ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u1	1. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies Committee on Ecological Disaster on the Bečva River / House Document 9016/ Minister Brabec has applied with priority rights. After that, Vice-President Petr Gazdík is registered with priority right before opening the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, I am very pleased, too, which is why I had no doubt that I would not approve today or that I would not contribute to the approval of the agenda for today's meeting, because I am very pleased to say finally with the knowledge of the report of the reaction that will be in two planes. I would like to start and recall the key milestones, because they are important in terms of understanding, and then I would briefly discuss the individual findings of the report, but, of course, if I were to discuss all of them, and then I would say one more procedural proposal at the end, so we would be sitting here for two hours. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] The accident, as you all know, occurred on 20 September last morning and hit the river under Valašský Meziříčí until Přerov. The polluting substance was neither felt nor seen. It wasn't possible at first to identify what kind of harmful material it was. At first it was not clear at all that it was a crash, because of course the death of fish could have had a number of different reasons: lack of oxygen, flushing from the fields, one-time carry caused by the tanker. The substance has flowed almost 40 kilometers of the river, these are all things we know. The crash, which I consider to be very important, has been dealt with since the beginning by dozens of people from organizations who are professionally and personally independent. I say this deliberately with emphasis on the various considerations of some criminal associations and other fury that my colleague Gazdík and others call here. So there was the Fire Rescue Corps, the Police of the Czech Republic, the water authorities of the affected municipalities and regions, the Czech Environmental Inspection, the Povodí Moravy, VAK Vsetín, fishermen and others. Dozens of samples are taken, they are evaluated by several different laboratories, more than 20 companies are being checked, I think a total of 21 companies near the river. 21. 9. Water law office Valašské Meziříčí, Povodí Moravy and Bohemia jointly control states of results and facilities in various companies, take samples on suspicion of non-standard perceptions. During the following days, the group consisting of the water law office, the Moravia and Bohemia basin controls 21 companies, from which, according to the indications, most of them are eliminated as the source of a possible accident, and I will return to that in a moment, it is important. 23. 9. firefighter's lab confirms cyanide in the evening. The information is then cross-confirmed in the morning by the Moravia basin, which publishes information in the media. Until the 23rd. 9. everything takes place as standard only after the professional line in order to mainly stop the spread of poisoning and find the source. Although it is clear that this is a major accident, the media are handling it as in other similar cases, i.e. with the authorities investigating the accident. And in a few moments I will say, and I think it is clear from the report that accidents are standardized by local water authorities and possibly in cooperation with the Czech environmental inspection, if the situation and the authorities of the integrated rescue system so require. But everything changes fundamentally then 24. 9. when a campaign is launched on social networks and subsequently in the media, and it is politicians like Mr Gazdík, Mr Kalousek, Mr Blaha, Mrs Pekarová Adamová and others who are already aware of the culprit. And I'm asking, why do you think? Well, because in a few days, the regional elections are, and it's just convenient. 25. 9. and it's important that the police take over the case, five days after the crash, launches criminal investigations and 26. 9. if I'm not mistaken, the Police of the Czech Republic on Twitter announces that they found out where cyanide leaked to Bečva. 27. 9. then, for accusing DEZA of poisoning in Bečva, the Member for STAN, Mr Gazdík, is publicly apologized. He then denies it, including our joint talk in Events, comments where he said he didn't say it, but he said it. I showed him the evidence today, I'm happy to show him, he knows he said it, and then he apologized, and then he deleted it. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is that it happened, and Mr Gazdík apologized for it, that it was no DEZA, that he had bad information. 29. 9. Police report that they will result from which they escaped cyanide into the Bečva River, lying in the village of Juřinka, and 30. 9. then the CEO of Energoaqua Mr Havelka confirms that police intervened on the premises of the company. Then other things and other things: 27. 10. escapes to Bečva from the end of the Energoaqua complex another pollutant, this time nickel. Then 24. 11th to Bečva from the Energoaqua complex again escape pollutants - nitrites. 2. 12. from Energoaqua again unknown substance, later it is confirmed that it is superlimite phosphorus. In the meantime, and this is interesting, the journal Referendum, the editor Mr Patočka and others, spits out various scenarios, basically even during 2020 and 2021, how it could have been. There are several scenarios, and there's always a part of the opposition enthusiastically leaning towards the scenario that it probably wasn't like that, but it was different, so there's one cyanide, the other phenols, then some combination. There's a lot of these things. I've been stressing here since I was 25. 9. it is investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic, conducts its own investigation and, of course, none of us can see in the file. If you sometimes ask me or ask me why we don't do something about it and how long it takes, I say that the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of the Interior can't intervene and, of course, mustn't interfere with the police investigation. This means that all the information that the Czech environmental inspection and other authorities had until then has passed on to the police is normal because criminal proceedings take precedence. 21. 4. already this year, the House for the first time in its history has agreed to the creation of an investigation committee for a live file. 3. 5. Judge Judge Klicpera completed his expert opinion and handed it over to the police. On June 28th of this year, the police charged one legal person and one natural person with the crime. These are offences of environmental damage and threat and the unauthorized treatment of protected wild animals and wild plants. According to news from the media, these accused companies are Energoaqua and its CEO Mr Havelka. [[11.10 hours]] 10. 8. Mr Hruška, Professor Hruška, Professor of the Institute of Global Change Research and Active Politics for the TOP 09 - by the way, whether I am correct, also the author of the electoral program of the SPOLU coalition or co-author in the field of the environment, but I am not sure about this - he publishes an experiment with salt on Bečva, which, according to his conclusion, refutes the conclusion of the expert and expert on hydrodynamics of Mr Klicpera. On 8 September, the supervising prosecutor rejected complaints against the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution lodged by Energoaqua and its agent. 15. 9. the supervising prosecutor from the District Attorney's Office in Vsetín announced that he would like to complete the suit by the end of the year. According to him, the case still needs to be supplemented with expert opinions. So, this is a brief story to see that she had her development for quite a long time, and in the meantime I left out various - and those were dozens - speculation, because the way the case developed and the various information penetrated, so of course the various media responded to it, and I feel that some just did not like that the Police of the Czech Republic were actually going in some direction and should have followed it in a completely different way. And I don't think it's just the media. Now allow me to submit one more thing to my own report to the committee of inquiry, because it is important. If we go back, and I've tried to explain that to some journalists, and I think that after some of this craziness has passed away, and I'm glad that my colleague Jurečka has said what he said here, because I'm going to say the report to the committee of inquiry, and I'm going to say for what reason. But there is one thing, or certainly one chapter, where we agree - and these are proposals for another solution. If it didn't turn out to be this political accusation, some line just like somebody's trying to bury it here and what kind of criminal conspiracy, and it was that the commission of inquiry doesn't want to subpoena the police work, which she claimed at the beginning, however she didn't act, because, of course, the members of the committee of inquiry criticize the work of the investigator, and that's the follow-up to this - that's here... he's here now... yeah, he's here, Marian Jurečka - if I was talking, Marian, through you, Mr President, about amateurs, I didn't mean amateurs overall, but amateurs investigating. That means I'm very concerned about the fact that the committee of inquiry evaluates the work of professional police investigators. That's what I said, just for me, that this is the amateurism. But I'm about to get to the point where I think there's a lot of evidence of amateurism. But if we look back on September 20th, there's one thing we need to realize that's forgotten. [[to]] At the beginning, there was no immediately visible explosion somewhere with some huge air or water poisoning, it wasn't a fire, it wasn't a burning dump where dead or injured are reported. This was the poisoning of water, which occurs in dozens of cases per year, and of course at the beginning, in the first hours, it gradually developed. And that's also the answer to what I'm about to get to. That is, it wasn't the case where something dramatic happens immediately and all the rescue systems, politicians, intervention teams from communities, regions start to come together. Moreover, the dying fish were observed almost two kilometers from the first end of the chemical plant and to the massive death - at least according to our information - at that first moment followed by Hustopecí nad Bečvou, i.e. more than five kilometers. That means no one at the time - and this is, please, the need, let's get back to it on September 20th - saw no clearly recognizable substance in the water, colorfully or smellfully identifiable - and, as I said, the causes of the accident at the beginning could have been significantly more, and that is why today we are simply judging that we know - smeared to the last minute - all the things that were done or not done there. Today everyone knows that it was cyanide and that the cause was some kind of industrial operation. But again, on September 20th, this wasn't clear at all. And I'll get to the details. The fact that the report is trying to call the whole accident a failure of the Czech environmental inspection today, because one of the main findings was that one of its workers did not go to the crash site is absolutely absurd for me. By law, specifically from the Water Act, a worker of the Water Authority directs the work in the accident, which is logical, because the local Water Authority has local knowledge of the flow, knows what the operations are like, knows where the results are, knows what is going on in this flow, and, after all, the report of the Commission of Investigation confirms this. This also happened on the day of the accident, whether the manager was a water authority worker in Valašské Meziříčí or a water authority worker in Hranice further along the river flow. To help and consult water authorities officials, again by law, invite the flow manager, i.e. someone from the Povodí, and Czech environmental inspection. Everything was as normal as any other accident so far: an inspector from the CIP arrived at the site, who was on Sunday's service and was closest to the crash site. This is one of the other conclusions of the commission, which is shocked that an inspector has arrived. Well, yes, an inspector came in because he was on duty, and at that point, of course, Olomouc is closer than Brno, because if he went there from Brno, it would take him another hour. And these are things that when they put themselves in context, they make sense. This means that the second inspector consulted the entire matter with the Water Authority on the telephone, which is absolutely standard at the time when the distance of the emergency worker of the Czech Inspection is from the place of residence since the accident reported to him for almost three hours. Again, I say - and little is known - the Czech Inspectorate has a regional workplace, he is on duty, he is on duty one worker and he arrives there, and, by chance, the worker who arrived from Olomouc was a specialist in water accidents investigations, because he does not always have to hold the service, of course, a water specialist, he may be an air specialist. And this is what makes one of the major problems that one person has arrived, but, folks, that's perfectly common because he's not the only investigator there. At the invitation of either the Water Authority or the Integrated Rescue System, the Czech Inspectorate does not automatically go there, and the person does not do what he wants there, and that is what the Commission's report says - he does the tasks of the person who invited him there, in this case the Water Authority. That is, the commission - and I have heard it here today - blames the failure of the Environmental Inspection when the sample was not taken at DEZA. According to the Commission, a sample was to be taken to disprove the suspicion of this chemical. So vice versa: does this mean that the sample is automatically to be taken from the DEZA or from another factory, because she is primarily a suspect? And that is what is in itself a scandalous statement by the Commission, because next to DEZA they were not in the first, in those first days and just on the basis of specific experience - and the inspection repeatedly said that the inspector's decision whether samples will be taken is entirely in the professional competence and experience of this inspector, in this particular case it was also an inspector with years of experience in waste water treatment technologies in controlled operations, and the inspector's decision to withdraw or not to remove samples was clearly inspected. So not some coincidence, also the provision of professional cooperation is documented, they were there when sampling three: there was an inspection worker, there was a body worker, there was a body worker, and there was a water authority worker. But what -- if I'm right and I think I'm right -- it's not like the basic thing in the investigation committee's report, it's not information that's really important, except that it wasn't based on the inspector's assessment that he didn't see anything sensoryly suspicious, so he or they, because there were three, they didn't take samples even in 18 other industrial companies. But that's not what the report says. All they're talking about is that the DEZA sample wasn't taken. But they of the 21 places, the companies, were taking - if I'm not mistaken - two, because they suspected in terms of their experience and sensory evaluation of the outcome, that there was a reason. They just don't automatically take samples from all of them. That's not technically possible or time. I understand you might be surprised, but if you look at the standard in the past, how do you know it's just the way it is, and I'll get to it right away. But I just find it incredible what President Rakušan here said when he actually said -- well, that's exactly what the DEZA was supposed to say. [[11.20 hours]] The inspector had no idea when he got there because he came from somewhere in Olomouc, he doesn't know where to take the samples from. By the way, he's telling the inspector where he's supposed to get samples from, a water court worker. Don't twist your head, colleague, I'm sorry, because this is just legal. And when the commission was studying the law, you should have studied this. And you're also saying that it's the responsibility of the Water Authority. That means, once again, I say, that this team of people only took samples where, according to their experience, it was suspicious and where there were visible signs of something non-standard at the end or at the end of the day, that's the standard procedure of the commission. And again, these samples weren't taken in 19 companies, one of them was DEZA, and for these reasons. You speak only of Deza in the report, quite purposefully, but you no longer say that in another 18 companies. This means, although according to the report, the Commission found that at the time of the accident in the section near Valašský Meziříčí was managed by a worker of the water law office Valašský Meziříčí, and even though the report states that there was a telephone consultation with a water authority worker who did not request the presence of a CIP worker! And he demands it, that man can't just come there, he's just being asked by someone. But it was clearly agreed with the water court of Valašský Meziříčí that the person from Brno would arrive at 130 kilometers away if needed if someone called him. It was also recommended by the Regional Inspectorate Brno that the collections be made by accredited laboratory personnel. In addition, there is a digital clue that the worker from 70 kilometers away, Olomouc Regional Inspectorate, was at the site of poisoning at least 14.29. Here's another thing. Here it is clearly stated in the report that, on the one hand, the fishermen claim that they did not see the inspection officer there, that they did not see him there until 16. This is believed automatically. Nothing against fishermen, they could be wrong, they weren't everywhere. The man has a digital trace on the photos that he was there at 14.29, but no one believes him! Nobody believes him, just like he's lying. If it's an inspection, he's lying - if it's everyone else, they're right. This is unbelievable! That's really what they could've done. The report therefore notes that the biggest failure of the authorities' procedures in the accident is that the NIP Brno worker did not show up at the crash site, even though according to the law he does not have this obligation and leaves at the request of the Water Authority or the Integrated Rescue System, and that the operator of the Emergency Service Brno did not inform its director by phone. The investigating committee simply believes that it should have been there, despite the fact that the Czech Inspection Act does not impose this or establish it. And that is the main conclusion, the Commission's main reaction. I say again, please look into the law, and I assumed that the commission of inquiry knows that environmental inspection is not a task force or part of the Integrated Rescue System. According to the applicable water law, he is not even an entity that directs the so-called recovery of the accident. According to the Water Act, the management of the work in the disposal of the accident in the waters is the competent water authority for the ORP in whose territory the accident occurred. According to current practice, inspections are far from participating in all reported accidents, being a consulting and control body. The primary responsibility is by nature the local water authorities, because logically they are there first together with the Fire Rescue Corps, and they have local knowledge. I think it's understandable for a layman, too. That's a perfectly standard practice. For interest: in recent years - we have, of course, done statistics - inspections are invited to 20 to 25 percent of cases on average per year. That means, in most cases, it's not even invited and it's handled by other organs. An inspector on duty arrives at the scene of a normal crash. There is, of course, a difference once again when something dramatic happens, a real thing when it's an instant crash where the police arrive, firemen, and it's something that's immediately visible and where it's clear what's going to happen. Here in those first hours it was clear that just one inspector had already been on the scene firefighters, there was a water court, there were police there, there were simply those who had arrived earlier from the logic of the matter, because it was reported to the inspector at 12.07 and he was there at 14.29. That is, if we want an army of people in each accident, it will not be left to everyone, but to each accident, because you cannot know how it will develop, to call a task force, and that is what our proposal is for, once again, where I say, is the only thing where we agree with the administration of the investigation committee. So another statement from the report: "The so-called offensive solution was to be implemented to the originator of the accident on the part of the SŽP Brno. " Again: it is quite clear that the real presence of one worker who would arrive - because this is to blame for the fact that the 130 kilometers have not arrived - which, moreover, does not know the location, the industrial activities taking place in this locality, the characteristics of the flow and so on, would have no significant impact on the course of the investigation. The actual period of arrival of a worker from Brno to the site after the notification of the Water Authority and given the distance would be between 16 and 17 o'clock, while the registration of the Water Authority shows that live fish were already observed at the site of the first death of the fish, which clearly indicates that the telephone consultation with those on the site is more operational. But the conclusion of the report is that the lady or the gentleman from Brno should have just arrived, in any case, even if it's not normally done, even if it's not standard from that point of view, but it should have arrived because Mr. Gazdík and other members think so. Because they have no idea how the inspection works, but they have clear proof that they should have been there. Another thing: the inspector reportedly did not move towards potential sites of the source of poisoning, did not follow the methodology of the ČŽP procedure in the crash. Well, let's not forget that the methodical instruction was approved afterwards, the refinement, so I don't think it was possible for him to do that. But I say again: it is clear from the registration of the Water Authority of the Borderline that this managing body has not designated an inspection to identify the cause of the accident and therefore potential sources of poisoning. It's just in the record. These are things that we have really discussed and inspections, you have all received an analysis of individual claims from the Czech Environmental Inspection, where it really shows that everything that could have been appropriate for the Czech Environmental Inspection, even though it is not in the competence, even though it is not in the gesture, even though it should not be done - it is simply useful because the inspection is equal to Brabec and Brabec equals Babiš. The samples were to be secured immediately... Another conclusion: "The samples should have been secured immediately after the reported crash within one hour of arrival at the place." That's another conclusion of the investigation committee. Well, that's awfully remarkable, because according to the reports, the Fire Department and the Water Department were first on the scene, approximately 12.15 to 12.45. That means, according to the committee, the samples were to be taken until 13.15 and 13.45 at the latest, but the inspector arrived there at 14.29 because, once again, he doesn't have a helicopter or a beacon. Therefore, it was not possible for the verification visits to be carried out at that time. And why is no sampling blamed for inspection? It's just incomprehensible! As a matter of fact, it's understandable, but it's totally unfair and it's really scandalous, it's bent again. Again, we stress that the first death of fish was recorded by fishermen around 10 o'clock, but the report was only after 11 o'clock. That means if it were like this, the samples would have to be taken by noon. And again, that's just not technically possible, so the committee of inquiry is proposing a solution that's not realistic at all, because if you have tens on that river, or even hundreds of results, so tell me, imagine it normally humanely, how many people would have to run there to take samples on those dozens of tastes within an hour, when each sampling has some clear parameters. There'd have to be dozens of them. It's just not realistic at the moment. But again, I'm about to get to where we're in agreement. According to the report, the Czech Inspection also failed in the early initiation of the environmental injury proceeding. However, the Environmental Damage Act applies to environmental damage caused by one of the activities provided for in this Act, such as a type of operating activity. Since the fact that exactly what caused the accident was not known until the notification of the accusations by the Police of the Czech Republic, it simply was not clear whether this law could be used at all. Plus, it's standard water law, and I don't see any problem there. [[11.30 hours]] Another irregularity - but of course there are many more irregularities: the report states that the rate of collection was missing. These were supposedly carried out around 5:00 p.m. At the same time, the same report indicates that samples have been taken continuously since 12.30. The report presents widely the assumptions of Mr. Pernický representative, but also others, and I have already said that ČIŽP Olomouc was not on the scene at 14.29, as he claims, but at 16 o'clock, as a member of the fishing union thinks. Unbelievable for me! There's just somebody out there who thinks he didn't see the inspection, and of course we're talking about a fairly long stream, and he didn't even know the guy from the inspection himself, so how did he get to know him? But he's convinced he wasn't there, and he didn't have to be there until 4:00. The same member of the fishing union, and this is an interesting statement, it has often appeared in the media that it was at the place to smell chlorine. This, however, is denied, as stated in the report, both firefighters and all water law enforcement authorities and water catchment representatives, and reports also indicate that fishermen did not start talking about the presence of chlorine until two days after the accident. So what's the mystery? Just when the fishermen say they smelled chlorine in there, they told someone, it's nowhere in the record, it's nowhere... [[Mr Gazdík's reaction off the microphone.]] I say again, the Fire Rescue Corps, the water authorities, all those who intervened there, and I think the firefighters would recognize chlorine, I think they have a lot of experience with it, and nobody, not even the people of Flood Moravia - I asked, no one felt anything there. And I think that's what the protocol said, isn't it? It's in there. That means... Another fisherman before the commission testified that the firefighter's commander had not taken samples from him. But you know why? But it doesn't say that anymore! Because firefighters already had similar samples from the same place and time, plus properly collected. That's the truth, the mystery of so-called spilled samples. Because there are all these things that are only on one side, but what doesn't fit isn't there anymore. There's just one version. That wasn't checked, that was believed. Some people are blindly trusted, no matter what they say, it's true, but someone who defends themselves and gives an explanation isn't there. I just don't get it. The report also notes - this is interesting, let's talk about prevention - that the Czech environmental inspection in recent years has not carried out any checks on water protection in the area of Energoaqua. There is, however, a completely simple answer that the Czech environmental inspection would only have to carry out a check in the specified interval if Energoaqua operated a plant - an industrial sewage treatment plant - under the Integrated Prevention Act or the Act on the Prevention of Major Accidents or on the basis of a complaint, but this simply did not happen. The CIP primarily carries out checks on these plants, where the frequency of checks is laid down by law, but the plants that supplied water to the COV Energoaqua or the dry cleaners themselves in Rožnov do not fall under any law which provides for the mandatory frequency of checks, and these permits are provided by the Regional Authority. But once again it is simply said that it is definitely the problem of inspection, even if it does not have the competence, but she should have known, she should have done checks there, though it does not belong to her. In the report, the Commission even criticizes the investigation methods of the Police of the Czech Republic that it worked too quickly - it also fell there today when the first information on cyanide was only available on Wednesday and the police already formulated questions for an expert opinion on Friday. What can I say? Does anyone on the committee really have the ability to judge the investigation? The members of the committee had the opportunity to look into the investigation file, I didn't have the option, but based on what... [[Again, Mr Gazdík's comment off the microphone.]] Yes, that's the difference. But based on what I read yesterday in the Hospodářské noviny, and apparently Hospodářské noviny has at least part of the file available because they quote the evidence there, so it seems to me that the evidence is definitely not missing, because you are constantly trying to fabulate here, how the evidence is missing, how the police can't do, how the case is not being investigated. This is unbelievable! This is what I call influencing the police's work live! This, pressure on investigators, pressure on the author of the expert opinion. You think that's normal? This is what you think is normal that the Police of the Czech Republic is investigating here, the law enforcement authorities, and you just keep saying, "But they're doing it wrong, it's supposed to be like this, it's definitely not like that, we have a different opinion. Where are we? It's not a normal, normal situation! So you're saying the police, they're all part of a criminal conspiracy? Well, I don't know, Mr Gazdík, by your means, Mr President, who are you going to give that criminal report to when they're all actually in cahoots, right? [[Mr Gazdík's reaction off the microphone.]] I'm looking forward to it. I'd be happy to explain everything to the police, tell them who actually influenced them. That means there are a lot of things in the report that are completely bent, completely manipulated so that the inspection comes out as a culprit, even if there are water authorities, regional authorities, I don't know, anyone else, but no! There in every chapter where there is talk of someone else, so it always ends up with a system: Well, Kartágo must be destroyed. It ends up being the fault of the inspection anyway. She should've known, she should've gone, she should've thought of it. I really feel sorry for these people because you guys are just... And here it is, and I will, in conclusion, comment briefly on, of course, the contributions of my fellow Members under the priority rights. But there is one part, and I have already pointed out, that I may be pleased - although I don't think you - where we are with the conclusions of the Commission in agreement, in that - and he was talking about it, President Jurečka, and there we will definitely agree - and there he is talking about the Ministry of the Environment once and for the first and last time and surprisingly, and the mention is commendable in the report, where the Commission points out that the Ministry of the Environment has prepared a good amendment to the Water Law. Thank you. I think she's good. And since we did, of course, an analysis of these things a few months ago, we did an internal audit, the Ombudsman investigated it, so it is not the only investigation, the commission of inquiry, and we came to the conclusion that the existing legislation far from covering sufficient coordination of interventions between the various components, and, above all, the Water Authority does not bear or need to bear its management role under the current law. And I don't think it happened here, and that's where it's not true that even the inspection wouldn't admit that she didn't modify her documents on the basis of this crash, because, yes, it turns out that if the Water Authority is actually in charge of a major accident, or where it turns out that it's a major accident, which is still at the border of two regions, there are several water authorities, the ORP, and even two regional authorities, then it's just a matter of trusting someone else. The same conclusion was reached, among other things, by the Ombudsman, who, I said, also dealt with the intervention. That is why we have prepared a proposal for an amendment to the Water Act, which clearly defines the responsibility and actions of individual authorities. That is also the answer for the President or Vice-President Okamura. And we have also prepared a methodology for the water authorities, a cookbook as to how to proceed in emergency accidents. After all, as I said, the report calls into question the actions of the Ministry and also agrees with the proposed division of competences. The amendment to the Water Act will distinguish the accident by ordinary and extraordinary scale. The destruction of the normal accident will continue at the municipal water management office and the Authority will be able to request cooperation from the water flow administrator or the Czech Inspection Office to clarify the causes. In the event of an emergency, the disposal work will always be managed by the Fire Rescue Corps - from the logic of the matter. The Fire Rescue Corps, of course, has an intervention commander, it's a service organization, that is, it's something we believe will work. We've discussed this with all the subjects, including the Fire Rescue Corps, we've got the amendment ready, and I'm convinced that it will lead to the fact that in these accidents, this issue of non-coordination or weak coordination between the individual components will not really happen anymore. This means that the Water Authority will cooperate with the firefighters, which will also belong in these cases to the investigation of the causes of the accident, and will again be able to request cooperation from the flow manager. If the scope of the normal and emergency accident exceeds the boundaries of the territory of one region, as it is in Bečva, the cooperating water law office will always be the regional authority, depending on the location of the accident or which region is most affected by the accident. The amendment to the Water Act envisages that all costs associated with the disposal of the accident must be paid by the accident developer. The proposal also substantially increases the existing sanctions for water pollution, in the case of discharges of waste water containing hazardous defective substances contrary to the permit or without authorisation up to CZK 25 million, today it is CZK 5 million, a fine of up to CZK 5 million may fall for failure to report the accident. The reality of causing an accident, where up to a million-dollar penalty can be imposed, is being completely newly introduced. [[11.40 hours]] In the meantime, it's also not true that nothing happened. The Czech inspection modified its methodology. As I was saying, the methodology for water law enforcement has been prepared. The Bečva River is now the most guarded river in the Czech Republic, and thanks to its regular water collections, every week in several places, no one knows in advance when, where, it is publicly accessible, the information. In the near future, it should be there - unfortunately, it has been delayed for reasons of partially covid and partly technical - automatic sampling for samples carried out by the Research Institute of Water Economics. Colleagues, colleagues, I have tried to give only a few reasons or evidence which I am absolutely convinced lead to a clear belief that the resulting text of the report is manipulated so that the maximum alleged errors can be attributed to the Czech environmental inspection. It is incredible - I repeat again - in how many parts of the report dealing with the responsibility of other components, it is finally concluded that it is the same failure of the Czech environmental inspection. Some conclusions really show that the report - and with all due respect and again - is simply not that the members of the commission are not professionals in their areas, but that it is written by laymen who have no idea how similar events are being investigated in reality. I don't think there's any information in the report that doesn't fit the authors in the store, for example, the information that the sample was taken or not taken not only from Deza, but from the other 18 companies, for the reasons I said, that is, based on a decision made by a particular inspector and on the fact that there was a group of people who decided where to take the sample or not to take it. I'm sure they testified on this matter, if you invited them, it's a pity you didn't invite me - obviously there's no information in the report that could dismantle the clear line that was clear from the start. That was clear: if the police are saving in a way that doesn't suit anyone, because it doesn't end up with the company that some of you might want, then at least we'll do it so that the political line can be in this report. Whether it comes from the law or not, whether the law enforcement authorities have come to other conclusions, whether it has no logic in substance or time, we simply don't care, we know how it should turn out. Again, if some of you are talking about a criminal conspiracy, which would then be attended by a police-supervised prosecutor, a state-owned enterprise called Povodí Moravy, several water law offices, Fire Rescue Corps, P.I.P., laboratories and other subjects, I don't know what to say anymore. Maybe those who say that judge by themselves what they would do, and by their own vision of the world, I don't know. But with all due respect, I say that you manipulate and bend the real state of things, and on this basis you accuse specific people who tried to do their best. You're dissecting their footsteps minute by minute with a huge amount of information that you now have a year after, and of course they didn't have the 20th or 21st of September. You're accusing them of not doing this or that without knowing how this investigation is going on in other cases. According to your suggestions, and I've already said, a really similar accident would have to be saved by only the army or the exit units of dozens of people, because if you think of it as the main failure of the inspection that one person didn't arrive, and the other one arrived there, you're saying that in those two people they would investigate it all of a sudden? That's just nonsense, that's nonsense even for a layman. Please remember that. How would you really want to take samples within an hour on a multi-mile stream with many discharges? That is why I said, and not for other reasons, that I consider the timing and the message of the report to be politicised and with a number of unprofessional conclusions. Of course, unfortunately, the media only put it politicized back then, but I didn't get a chance to say why: because there's the evidence and everyone has it. The report is public and the response of the environmental inspection is also public. Please look at this and compare these things if you are interested in finding the truth. If you're not interested, just politically before the election, just looking for a criminal conspiracy... Because it's explainable, that's understandable and understandable. Again, I consider it an unprecedented effort to influence an independent police investigation, to question the work of a forensic expert, or even an investigator. I have full confidence in law enforcement authorities, and I would never have thought, even if I was on the other side of that imaginary barricade to criticize the police and show and weaken their work. It is an effort to intervene in the Houses of Elections as the same actors tried to do before the regional elections, which took place only a few weeks after the crash in Bečva. Just anti-Babish stitched up again. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm very sorry about what happened on Bečva a year ago, but what's unleashed on this case is really intense. [[Nonsense?]] I blame myself, and I've said a hundred times that I'd slap myself for it, that I was too optimistic a year ago when I believed that the investigation would be faster, and then I really believed it. I wrote it, and I think it's definitely a mistake that I was just naive, that it would go faster. Yes, we would all be thrilled if it ended much sooner, but if I ever said that, and let some media correct it, as Brabec first ruled out Deza - no, he didn't. I just reacted except when Mr. Gazdík started sharing on his profiles, who caused it, so then I responded. Until then, I would never do it, because I wouldn't interfere, ever, and I wouldn't, but I didn't start defending myself until then. But I didn't defend Deza, I defended myself. I can show you, I'm sorry... [[The performer's going to get the paperwork.]] And this... Yes, it's from your profile, Mr. Chairman. It is, isn't it? [[He's showing the evidence.]] Then this, Mr. Gazdík, sometime approximately 25, 26, could have been, in September. 'Cause it's 27. - And here's "Get rid of Bečva's fish, done, Agrofert goes for cyanide." I responded to this, folks, not to defend Deza somewhere. I defended the Ministry of Environment and Inspection. And if this hadn't started to appear on those networks in September, I never, ever did, ever said anything about it. Because that's why I was actually provoked to say something about it because it was before the regional elections, and you were clearly making some connection here, because you already knew you already knew three days after who did it. [[He's showing the evidence again.]] And then... you can't see it or you won't see it anymore, but this is from 27. 9. and this again is Mr.Petr Gazdík, who says: "The DEZA did not, according to my information, make new credible information very likely. [[It shows again.]] Another company poisoned the Bečva River. It'll show up in a few days. I'm sorry, then." Which I appreciated, and I also wrote to Mr. Gazdík that I appreciate it, "I have published something that has not been confirmed. The original information was really different, I'm sorry." Yes, correct, correct! But then why did you lie, Mr. Chairman, on TV when you said you didn't write or call back? I don't understand, but you must know that by now. I'm just explaining why - and this is also for the media - why I started to comment on it, because until then, it was just a technical matter that was being investigated by the inspection and then by the police, and I didn't even think about the connection, nor would I have dealt with it, because I've never interfered with the inspection. It means that I am convinced that - and I am happy to prove it - that neither I nor my colleagues have ever done anything to prevent an independent, objective examination of poisoning by the principle of "fall to whom." And I believe that all those who intervened around the river did everything according to their best consciousness and conscience. About the fact that there may have been other procedures, that's what I'm talking about here, and I'm saying that, yes. That is also why we have clearly changed legislation and we are changing legislation, because the coordination has really slowed down. The inspection also made some adjustments based on this. But I'm the one who's most sorry about the way you defamate inspection people. I'm a politician, I can take it, it's not pleasant, but I can take it. But how do you defamate those inspection people who are far ahead of Geuss, long before Geuss, his deputy, and you say here, well, we're gonna dig them all up because they're definitely connected to this Babiš guy. [[11.50 hours]] In a moment, I'll ask the House to allow Director Geuss to speak, who is here, to wait. Let's see what you decide. He's certainly capable because 99 percent of your comments go to the work of environmental inspection. You're the only one heading to the Ministry, and it's commendable, but of course I'm the biggest pest. And you're going to inspect things that just can't be inspected, and it has nothing to do with Geuss. That was handled by people who worked there for 20 years. It's just unbelievable what's going on here and what you've done in this political carousel. I'm really sad about these people, not for myself and not for you, we're gonna fight this place together. So talking about some criminal conspiracy, I think, is completely out of the ordinary, and I'm convinced it wasn't even a swindler in the finals. As I said before, this case will lead to some change in legislation, and this will be discussed in this House. Now, allow me just a few more comments on what has been said here in the priority rights. Mrs Adamová, she says: Well, we are interested in dealing with this politically unbiased. Well, that's a wonderful contradiction when basically the first sentence says, "I want to put it in a broad political context, as the tentacles are intertwined." Well, if you wanted to deal with this in an unbiased way, you'd be dealing with it the way we designed it, that is, let's make some teams where they think that things could have been done differently, better, more precisely, by changing legislation, we would always agree on that. But from the start, you were trying to rip these people off. They wiped out those people you think are under Babiš's supervision, who tells them what to do every night. That's crazy. Mr. President Jurečka and with that (?) He said: Yes, I apologized for amateurs, or I meant otherwise. I meant amateurs in the investigation, not like total amateurs. However, the error and the instruction of the legislative, yes, yes. That's what we've done and we've done, and this is definitely where the committee can count on our cooperation, and we've given it. We gave the committee all the information we had. I may have answered Mr Okamur in part, which means the length of the investigation - yes, I am also sorry that it took so long, but again, the investigation has been underway since September 25th and is already underway. And by the way, the police themselves say that when they compare some other cases, and maybe even less complicated than this, it just took a long time to investigate the charges. And a system solution: yes, I suggest it. Mr. Chairman Bartoš - I've already communicated. I would really like for Director Geuss to comment on this, if you would give him the opportunity to talk about the so-called cleansing, about what happened there, about how connected it all is, and I would like him to defend himself. By the way, since President Bartoš has already used the reduced fine that the Ministry allegedly reduced, guess who gave the fine in full, in the original amount? Well, environmental inspection, Mr President, through you. So you're blaming the inspection on one side, but you didn't say it here. You said the Ministry was down. And you know what it's called, Mr. Chairman? But I don't think you know that in the state administration. It's a two-step procedure, it's an appeal body. The inspection here gives a fine and then the so-called administration authority comments on it. I'm not in charge of that, because they're completely independent people, who, of course, are the second degree of government. But you only told half the truth that someone had reduced the fine, but the original one - like in dozens of other cases - gave the original one the inspection. So please, once again taken out of context and thrown like this into the diaper to see: See what you're doing there under Babiš. It's awful what you're doing in this report, that's awful. And I believe that the media will gradually dissect - and then I talked to some journalists, and I feel that if you really explain to them why it happened, how it happened, then suddenly they start to understand. But you unleashed the frantic spiral of this conspiracy. And you also reduced your confidence not only in the inspection, but also in the Police of the Czech Republic, of course. My colleague Blaha was talking about covering up evidence. What's he hiding? Well, there's nothing to hide. I think I made that very clear. So in conclusion, I'm very glad that we can talk about this here, and I'm glad, and I'm saying this without the irony that we have the opportunity to talk about things that definitely deserve improvement. Because, like after the catastrophic floods of 1997, an integrated rescue system was created, so - and in some other cases, legislation was improving - so this too is definitely the subject and will be the subject of a big debate on how to change legislation, so that something like this does not happen again. Of course, there can never be a way to prevent an accident, to become a human cause, a human failure, or a technical failure, but it can certainly be ensured that the organs in such major accidents may be better trained, especially those who may not have managed it. But what bothers me about it, and that's why I was afraid of the committee of inquiry, not that it would happen, but that it would come to precisely these conclusions, is that it is being investigated in parallel on live air next to the police. And that's something that... This House has created a huge precedent for the future, when it has made an investigation committee for a live police file, and here we see the consequences. Because if you say: Some criminal conspiracy, I say that some of the commission, or some of the people who write about it, feel like they're attorneys of the accused. Because you're inventing online reasons why it couldn't have been the accused and why it could have been someone else. I would never dare, folks, if I was on the other side, because I'm not an investigator. I'd probably be dealing with that if I think there's supposed to be some change in legislation here, that's what the House is about, but I wouldn't interfere with the work of the Police of the Czech Republic and the authorities involved in criminal proceedings. So whatever work goes on, you can have any criminal report. I'm happy to explain our position and our role to everyone, because again, we've done everything we can to make it fall for who. I am convinced that the police have enough evidence after reading it yesterday in the Hospodářské noviny, I am really convinced that this is because I think that there are a number of very compelling things there. So thank you, I'm sorry a little bit more for the emotion, I'm sorry back then for the debate that my colleague and I had in the Events, comments. She was more upset than I originally wanted, and I'm basically calm. But I have to say, the things that are happening around this report really pissed me off because my conscience is completely clear. I say that very clearly, and I can also speak for my people that they did their best to investigate. And what's just showing off here, the smearing, the blaming, that's really gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u3	I was just about to ask you that you've announced a proposal you didn't make.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I forgot it in the holy upset. I would have a procedural proposal here if the director of the Czech Environmental Inspection Erik Geuss could take part in the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u5	I understand the proposal, so the moment we launch the item and open the debate, we'd give the director the floor if we agreed. Isn't that right? Yes. At this point, I'm going to introduce you to your apologies. Mr Tomáš Martínek apologizes from 12.15 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologises from 10 to 13 hours for health reasons. [[Gong.]] There was a proposal for Erik Geuss, the director of the Czech Environment Inspection, to be able to speak in the debate. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber so that we can vote on this proposal. Checkout request - I checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. [[12.00 hours]] We are voting on the presence and presentation of Director Geuss in the debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 115 Members registered, for 114, against no one. The motion has been approved. Before we begin discussing this point, the club vice-chairman, Mr. Petr Gazdík, is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u6	Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, I am very pleased that you have shown us quite clearly here in a rather comprehensive speech that you are not the Minister of the Environment, but the Minister for the sweeping of traces of environmental crimes. [[Members of the ANO movement are punching the benches with their fists for protest.]] To use your words - because that's the way it is. I would like to raise a few questions and answer in particular. The fact that you lied in your speech when you claimed that there was no mention in any of the reports that the water had been committed, I would like to quote a report from the Water Authority in Valašské Meziříčí of 24. 9. where it says exactly: "The intervening members of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Wallachian Meziříčí took samples of water in the amount of the circus 21 and dead fish in a number of seven pieces. The fish were passed in a plastic bag and the drained water in a tin bucket. The water on the spot slightly died." Minister, you're lying. You talk nonsense and untrue, manipulate and try to discredit the commission's report, where representatives of nine political parties who had documentary evidence had witness interviews at their disposal. Most of the stuff in that report, just like this fact about the smell, is documented in that report. Each of you, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, has a chance to get to know it. The Commission had almost all the materials available, including from the police. The only material that was not available is the information that the Czech Environment Inspectorate owes to this House and to the public today, and this is an accurate analysis from which it was judged that cyanides, if they were cyanides, so in what concentration and what other substances were there, such as phenols and other things, or free chlorine, which, as 13 witnesses made quite clear by a sworn statement, the water had committed. These are things that we do not know to this day, and inspections keep them secret and keep them secret from the commission. The Commission also points out the errors of other authorities, not only the errors of the Czech environmental inspection: late arrivals, insufficient collections. So what you're saying here is that the error occurred only on the side of the Czech Environmental Inspection, that's just not true. Czech environmental inspection criticizes the commission for not indicating who and exactly how they destroyed the samples. Yes, some samples were taken by the Water Authority, which was supposed to manage it, but were subsequently discarded, poured out or rejected. However, this would have to be read by the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority the footnotes that are quite clear in the Commission's report. There is a document Reply of the Municipal Authority of the Hranice on a question pursuant to § 106/1999 Coll. Czech environmental inspections claim that the House Commission should advise her which of the dozens will result in a potential risk. My advice is: It would be enough to check the first five results over the death site of fish, some of which lead from the DEZA chemical. In addition, DEZA should have taken the sample first. He didn't take off at all, there's no such sample, and that's one of the most serious mistakes. Czech environmental inspection mentions that at the time of the accident it had no methodological instruction, which in itself is wrong. However, even after its completion at the request of the Commission, it follows that the inspector has actually acted poorly during sampling and has not clearly defined the source of contamination. The Czech environmental inspection blames its errors primarily on the water authorities, regional authorities, government officials, even firefighters and fishermen, which is an absolute outrage. Fishers have rightly opposed the claims of the Czech Environment Inspection several times, so will other authorities. Unfortunately, many of them also have butter on their heads. And now for specific questions. I'd like to ask you - the minister has distracted this place quite massively, trying to go into some details, so I'm going to ask him some details as well. Minister, you are the longest-serving Minister of the Environment. Do you know - and this is also a question for you, gentlemen - do you know any case in our country or in a world where poisonous substances, cyanides, began to operate after more than three kilometers? Is there such a case? Or did it become a miracle on Bečva that the first cyanides started poisoning after three kilometers? Next question. How is that possible - you, Minister, made it very clear that the police are taking over 25. 9. On the same day the police gave a very sophisticated opinion, where they actually asked in seven questions: Prove that it was Energoaqua. At that point, the police didn't question any witnesses or notifiers. She didn't do any criminal proceedings at all in the DEZA factory or any other operation, you were talking about 16 or 18 operations that are there. How is it that the police, without questioning anyone without having any evidence, first thing they do, already know the first day they take over after a few hours, who's the culprit? Is that the honest work of the police? I'm sorry, the committee has to turn against that. And I must also oppose it as a member who seeks the truth. Minister, why were no samples taken under Deza, or when they were, were poured out or discarded? How is that possible? You consider that a quality inspection work? You said there was no connection between these authorities, or you listed all the organs. But the most basic ones are two. This is the Czech Environmental Inspection and Water Administration. That's what you've been very clear about. These two institutions unite one - the YES movement, you and Mr. Mayor of Valašský Meziříčí, who was given an optional position as a newsstand, although originally not optional. Guess he got it for some reward. BLEEP Brno - when you say they didn't and didn't know. It is quite clear in the registration of the water law office that the water law firm Brno notified the proximity of the DEZA chemist and recommended that the water law office take a sample. Why didn't the inspector of Olomouc think of that? Why did it only occur to the guy from Brno? Isn't that strange? You're saying that the inspector obviously doesn't have a helicopter or a beacon or equipment that he couldn't have come quickly. I wouldn't blame him. I'd blame him for not having the equipment in his service car to take samples, for not having enough equipment to take conclusive samples, and not even where he's supposed to take them. [[12.10 hours]] You say that we manipulate and bend the real state of affairs, that even Czech environmental inspection did not fail in the accident. I have been sitting with three inspectors of the Czech Environmental Inspection in the last week, Minister. There was a similar accident here, here in Cologne in 2006, in Draslovka, where cyanides escaped, and see what the environmental inspection procedure looked like back then. Those inspectors I sat with told me that yes, it's your job, the Czech environmental inspection is today an inspection that is supposed to destroy the small ones, to give them inappropriate fines, for the big ones like Agrofert, to try only to formally come there, to fill out a table, and that's all. That's the effect of your action. The expert was proposed by the Commission to send a letter to the Minister of Justice so that Mr Klicpera's expert could be removed from the list of judicial experts and administrative proceedings were initiated with him. Yesterday, the Minister of Justice told us that the Ministry of Justice had already initiated the proceedings without the initiative of the Commission. And yesterday's leaked report in Hospodářské noviny, Minister, from the last leaked information from police reports to the media in Hospodářské noviny, which the members of the Commission have not yet been able to talk about, shows that it is in fundamental conflict with the version of the accident that was previously presented by the Czech Environmental Inspection, compared to the version of the police. The Czech environmental inspection claims that the poisonous substance must have flowed into Bečva in the form of a one-time carry, on the contrary, the police say on the basis of the reports that it was definitely not a one-time carry. But this would be quite essential to clarify the credibility of the institutions. One of them can't be right. Despite the fact that as a member of the commission of inquiry, I identify with the information in the article, so that there is no direct evidence for the version of the poisoning from Rožnov today - there is no direct evidence. Minister, I apologize, but the way in which the Czech Environmental Inspectorate went about the work of the House Commission is contempt for this House, and you said so yourself - while you allegedly have no evidence, you do not have a file, so the committee had it, and that is why we came to conclusions that we have come to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. We will therefore continue to discuss this point, which is already open according to my information. Therefore, the report submitted by the Commission of inquiry should now be mentioned by the President of the Commission, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. Please, madam, you have the floor. Then the rapporteur of the Commission of Investigation would speak again if he was interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief and perhaps a little less emotionless than my previous speakers. First of all, I tell you that you have the final report of the committee of inquiry on the environmental disaster on the Bečva River as House document 9016. I think that you are familiar with its content properly, not only by expressing my previous speakers, but also by being quite quite a bit rehashed in the media. The Commission has adopted a resolution on this report, which I will introduce you to before I comment. So: "The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies Committee on Ecological Disaster on the Bečva River of the 6th meeting of 17 September 2021. Investigation commission Chambers of Deputies on the Ecological Disaster on the Bečva River I. Approves the final report of the commission of inquiry; II. Instructs the President or rapporteur of the Commission of Investigation to present the final report to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Calls on the Government to proceed with the intentions of the proposed measures of the investigative commission referred to in the final report; IV. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic take note of the Commission's report; V. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to ask the Government to take action in terms of the proposed measures of the committee of inquiry referred to in the final report, and asks the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for which the final report of the committee of inquiry will be discussed" and this is also happening today. For myself very briefly. As I said before, you're probably familiar with the report, a lot of information has been said here. I would like to say to the Minister that I, too, as Chairman of the Commission of Investigation, although our club was originally opposed to the establishment precisely because it is a live file, so I still trust the law enforcement authorities, and I think that the report as such does not attack the police's procedures anywhere. So I feel like I've read another report, I don't know what kind you or your advisors were reading to you about your performance. You said in this report that we're going to dig up all of them because they're connected to Babiš, the Czech Environmental Inspectorate. And sometimes you mistake the report in that speech, let's say, with the individual statements of the individual members, and I, as president, have to say, although we were across the political spectrum and we did not agree on all the points of the final report in a uniform manner, so that we, in those two months, thank our colleagues, did a really good job and tried - or at least I, as president, and I think my colleagues will testify to it - to write and to make the report so that it would be apolitical. But don't be mad at me, Minister, you're the politician in this, and now you've politicized your performance by talking about this report for four more hours without getting any results. We have made it clear in this report that in the summary of the errors found, we have stated specific things that your ministry should be dealing with. Instead, you're throwing dirt at the committee, and you're saying all we want is to find out that DEZA was the culprit. Don't be mad at me, that's not true, and I, as chairman of the committee of inquiry, have a need to stand up for the members of the committee and defend them with this, although, as I say, we are across the political spectrum and we definitely disagreed on all things. According to the private statements of some of the colleagues in the committee, yes, you can come to some conclusions, perhaps it motivates you to do some of the things you said here, but please do not confuse the individual members of the committee with the committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. For the sake of completeness, I'm going to state that we have now after 12 o'clock, another special meeting is scheduled at 2 o'clock, and I've been informed that there should be a traditional lunch break at 13 o'clock, so I'd like to call on the club presidents to make a deal so that we can arrange it. So now we're going to continue. The designated rapporteur for the commission of inquiry, Mr Petr Gazdík, should now speak. He's interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u10	I'll be very brief. The chairwoman of the committee actually said the news report a little bit for me. I'd like to join her. I strongly ask that the Minister of the Environment stop attacking the Commission and its final report. What he says, from really personal statements, is simply a great disrespect for the commission's work, because the commission really came to a clear conclusion on how little time it had. The obvious conclusions are based on concrete evidence and facts. You can manipulate everything, especially not (?) with a 29-page report by the Ministry, that's for sure, or by the Czech Environmental Inspection, but such disrespect for the work from the facts that the Minister has shown here, we have not really had here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. At this point, I am opening up a debate in which I have several applications, some with priority rights, some in writing. At the same time, I welcome the Director of the Environment Inspection, whose presence we voted for, and which therefore now has the opportunity to speak in the debate. I would now like to introduce the House with the note cards that have been delivered to me, and then perhaps with a written application with the priority right of Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Madame, after I read the applications, you will have the floor. So Mr Michálek apologizes for today's work for reasons of work, Mrs Adámková between 12.30 and 13.00, Mr Jiří Bláha between 14 and 19.00 for reasons of work. Mr Bartoš is still apologizing from 12.30 to the end of today's meeting for work reasons. Please. [[President of the House to the President off the microphone.]] But the Member has a written application and they have priority. He has a written application with priority rights with the opinion of the ČSSD club. [[The President of the House shall exercise his right to appear. Mrs Gajdůšková at the speaker's desk asks the question: May I?]] The President claims that he also has a written application, so I apologize, it has not been forwarded to me and has been delivered earlier, so President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u12	My colleague, I'm sorry, so I'm sorry. [[To Mrs. Gajdůšková.]] I'm gonna try to cut it short. My contribution is out of the debate, out of the emotional creations that have been made here - I'm sorry, Mr Gazdík, through the President, from the particular caricature of the Member you have shown here. I don't agree. Look, there's one thing you need to remember. I did not vote for the agenda of this meeting as one of the three Members, and I want to explain why. Every action we have in this Chamber of Deputies, whether you want it or not, is precedent. We determine how the negotiations in this Chamber of Deputies will develop. I am convinced that this time it has gone too far, that we are interfering with the investigative power of executive, that we are politicizing the matter that is part of the living file, and I want to comment on this and say the overall framework. Excuse me, one more thing. When I listened to it, I think that the defense of those accused at the moment would be willing to accept your invoice if you would now bill them for consultations, because you are extremely helpful in defending those who are being investigated by the police at the moment. My point is whether the Chamber of Deputies will really continue to overuse the Institute of Investigation Commissions and if we really want to intervene in this way as legislators in the power of executives. To explain this to you in some way, I can't do this any other way than put it in the overall framework. The Parliamentary Commission of Investigation was a foreign body of Parliament's original concept as a legislative body. The investigation is not an expression of lawmaking, but of executives. Therefore, the commission of inquiry does not know, did not know this Parliamentarism at the time of its creation in our territory, under the Habsburgs, in the first Republic, or in the time of socialism, never. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission was introduced into Czechoslovak parliamentary practice on 29 November 1989, even outside the legislation, by the resolution of the Federal Assembly, which set up the Joint Investigation Commission of the Federal Assembly and the Czech National Council, whose task was to clarify the events of 17 November 1989 in Prague. This commission ceased its activities in May 1990, after the 1990 elections it was set up again and, in addition to a new investigation, it was to submit a proposal for a legal framework for its activities. Only on the basis of her proposal was the Institute of Investigation Commissions modified in the legal order by an amendment of 30. 10. 1990 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - Federal Assembly back then. Thus, on our territory, the Institute of Investigation Committees has been foreign to our parliamentarism for a very long time, even in the time of the democratic first Czechoslovak Republic. It was introduced in a revolutionary and in principle revolutionary manner, when legislation was adopted only subsequently at a time when it was legitimately distrusted by the then authorities, the National Security Corps and the Prosecutor's Office. This general mistrust justified that, for the revolutionary period when democracy was just born and the proper investigative bodies of the state were in the hands of representatives of the old regime, it assumed this executive power of the then parliament - the Federal Assembly. At the time of the Czechoslovak Federation there was also another constitutional position of parliament, the Federal Assembly and the Czech National Council. At the time, there was no theory of division of power in the constitution, and parliaments were the highest bodies of all state power. This was a constitutional basis for them to be active in areas that were not an expression of legislative activity. However, from the effectiveness of the new constitution, which we are following today, Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, there is a completely different constitutional situation where Parliament is not an institution of all state power, not an institution of all power, but only the highest and only authority of legislative power. Parliament must always be aware and respectful of this restriction that it has imposed on itself, for he is a constitutional contractor with us. For this reason, the Constitutional Court has previously declared the House of Deputies to be an unconstitutional prior jurisdiction to abolish the resolution of municipal councils, which was given by the 1990 Municipalities Act, which the Chamber of Deputies inherited from the Czech National Council. The Constitutional Court pointed out that the power arose at the time of the Czechoslovak Federation, when the Czech National Council was another fundamental position, but from the effectiveness of the new constitution, with a change in the position of parliament from the highest authority of all state power only to the authority of legislative power, it was already an unconstitutional entry of the legislative body into the scope of the illegal. This is also done by practical and political experience that the commission of inquiry becomes an instrument of political struggle, when the negotiations are primarily held and, above all, the vote derives from the party's responsibilities. We are not exceptional in this, nor are we voting in an attempt to indict President Trump by the US Congress was primarily dependent on the democratic or republican jurisdiction of voting Members and senators, but it is not part of any of our broader traditions. It is therefore the constitutional responsibility of Members to be aware of the historical and constitutional circumstances of the introduction of committees of inquiry into our legal order and of their practical use. Our practice has shown that this is part of a political struggle, although originally the commission of inquiry was and is different. They were introduced into the rule of law in quite different circumstances - deep and justified distrust of totalitarian police and prosecutors. Today, however, the situation is completely different. Our legal order entrusts the investigation into the crimes of the executive authority, the police under the authority of the state's attorney. It would be appropriate to engage in an investigation if it were proved that the system of prosecutors as such is inoperable and does not exercise supervision over the legality of an investigation conducted by the police. Although there are, of course, individual errors everywhere, I would like to emphasise here: we are not in a situation of systemic failure of law enforcement authorities. Only systemic failure would justify the extraordinary entry of the Chamber of Deputies into an illegal area to carry out investigative activities under executive authority. This situation didn't happen with us. The parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies did not take advantage of the possibility of initiating a review of the police and prosecutorial activities in the investigation of a particular criminal offence by the normal mechanisms which every citizen in this state has, e.g. an incentive to exercise supervision to a higher public prosecutor. In all seriousness, I therefore argue that even the current use of this Institute of Investigation is not led by its real constitutional purpose as an institution of extraordinary, but is only part of the party's electoral struggle, including the outcome of its activities. I'm putting aside all the factual claims. I'm putting aside the fact that I can also claim here that for 30 years I lived on the banks of the Moravia River, where the Bečva River flows. The Institute of Investigation Commissions is being abused and abused in our Chamber of Deputies for a long time. This is not only the fault of the House of Contemporary but also of the previous ones, to be fair. It is a poor constitutional and political practice that should be changed. If it is not changed, it is no wonder that the results of the committees of inquiry will be taken as results of the party struggle, where the current political majority of the members of the committee decide. And let's not say here it's something else in this particular case. For all these reasons, I abstained from approving the programme. I saw there were only three of us. Now I have justified my position correctly, and I hope that in the next parliamentary term I will be one of those - I hope not, I am saying this - I will propose this in the next parliamentary term after hearing the arguments after seeing how these committees of inquiry work in order to change the Rules of Procedure. And since there is overuse and interference and violation of the division of power in this House, I will suggest that we abolish the commission of inquiry as such, because it lacks complete meaning for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. I've been alerted to another collection of priority-law written applications, so it's gonna get a little complicated around here. However, it is now indeed Mrs Gajdůškovášková's turn, and then further written applications with priority rights, as another Mr Jurečka, according to the time mark I have here. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I have been registered in writing with the fact that I want to speak with the opinion of the Social Democracy Club. For the Social Democracy Club before the beginning of the speech, I say that our position is that any commission of inquiry is to fulfil the supervisory function of the Chamber of Deputies towards the authorities, and it is to draw conclusions from the facts found and recommend legislative or other measures to ensure redress. We are concerned with justice and protection in particular of the environment, but of course of people, because we are all part of this environment. That is why social democracy fully supported the establishment of the Bečva Commission of Investigation at its beginning. The Minister of Agriculture, Mirek Toman, immediately after the accident, released funds for the new fishing of the river and accelerated work on the amendment to the Water Act and refined the methodologies relating to the functioning of the competent authorities and institutions in dealing with environmental accidents. I would also like to begin by thanking all those who contributed to the removal of the consequences of the accident, especially fishermen, firefighters, but also others who really did not hesitate, put their hands together and try to ensure that the real consequences and negative consequences are as small as possible. I personally went to the committee of inquiry for social democracy for three reasons. First, I grew up at the Bečva River and my mother still lives on its shore. So I was very, very affected by the fact that, in an instant, this beautiful river became a dead river. Secondly, like all of us in the Zlín Region, but probably in Olomoucky or Moravia, if you like, wonder why it takes so long to tell us what really happened. And thirdly, and I think that is the main role of our commission, to find out what needs to be done against the repetition and effective solution of environmental accidents (?) and prepare solutions to prevent these accidents, or to address them very quickly and efficiently, so that the effects and consequences are as small as possible. The assumption that the Bečva Commission of Investigation might find out what really happened didn't come true. And as has already been said here, at this point the law enforcement authorities are working, the whole thing is being investigated and their role is to find the culprit and prove that it was him or him. You just can't get in. We, as an investigation committee for Bečva, could only find out what happened next in the resolution of the accident, and maybe even a little bit map why there is still no conclusion. The third, i.e. what measures need to be taken to prevent further accidents from happening, and if they are dealt with quickly, perhaps they will succeed. This is formulated in the conclusions of the Commission. Logically, I consider the most important thing to be done and, if possible, quickly, it is to be mapped so that the passportization can be made into the river so that the state and the competent authorities know who the results belong to, or, respectively, who is using them. It can be assumed that their users would certainly be more careful about what they put into these results and then into the river. Another problem was that the activities of the individual institutions were very little coordinated when the accident was removed. As I listened to the performances of those who testified before the committee, it seemed to me that they were all trying to do what they could and what they thought they were supposed to do, but apparently they relied on each other, one organization at a time, and no one was in charge at that time. It is therefore very necessary to set up procedures for environmental accidents, as is the case today with the integrated rescue system where the integrated rescue system intervenes, and this very well. Those procedures must also be clearly specified in environmental accidents. To that end, as a member of the Bečva Commission of Investigation, I note that the report captures the statements of the people who testified before the Commission. I admit that I did not agree with some of the wordings that have been voted on, but I have to reject for the Social Democracy Club that we would see the report as politicalised. Politically, it is not for the benefit of the debate that follows. Since the crash in Bečva only in Zlín Region, there have been three more accidents, last time yesterday on Vsetín Bečva. Our task must be to protect the environment, prevent such situations. Of course, it was about fish and other animals living in the water, but it was also about people. Water is simply a strategic raw material and without water life is not. We must protect whether they are sources of drinking water, groundwater, or surface water in rivers and streams. But the culprit of this accident in Bečva must be found and proven by law enforcement authorities. Our task is to improve the conditions for all who solve accidents or - even better - prevent them. Set rules for dealing with these accidents and accidents of an extraordinary scale, this is a task for the next Chamber of Deputies and for us who will eventually continue. Finally, I repeat for the Social Democracy Club: we will support the report of the Bečva Commission of Investigation and will continue to work to return life to the Bečva River and prevent similar environmental disasters. I believe we can all agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, and since we are already in the debate, Mr Strýček, to whom I give the floor, has made a point of fact. Then I have four more priority rights here before we get any further. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am still in the debate, but I now considered it necessary to make a technical remark here. Because I noticed when I was here talking with the Minister that Mr Gazdík was taking pictures of me, so I hope that soon it will appear on his twitter account as a criminal conspiracy between me and the Minister, as he once marked us in the debate in Events and comments saying that I had reportedly told the Minister after the release of the report, after I had told the media a long time ago, some secret information that should have been informed that I had not voted in favour of the report of the commission of inquiry. [[12.40 hours]] You, Mr Gazdík, by means of the President, identified me as a criminal conspiracy at the first meeting in Zlín. You even marked me as an employee of Agrofert's political division, and so on and so forth. Basically, you calling us a criminal conspiracy in the Czech News Agency, so I'd like to ask you now, because after those meetings, when the official press conference was a committee of inquiry, you normally gave the press interviews where you leaked information to the commission of inquiry. It's documented here, 9. 8th in Zlín. Well, I'm not gonna quote it here given the limited time for the tech, but I just wanted to ask you one thing. You, Mr Gazdík, here, by means of the President, are criticizing leaks of information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u17	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Please complete the sentence, and then hand over the seat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u18	You yourself provided a draft final report to a third party before publishing the final report of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u19	I'm gonna ask you to keep the bargains, but we have limited time. Mr Gazdík is now, with a factual remark, and if I have understood Mr Strýček, he is reporting again. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u20	I apologize, Mr Strýček, through Mr President, but I did not accuse you of anything on television. The Minister provided that information to you, and I certainly didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, that was a short factual one. Now again, Mr Strýček, but I would like to call on us to continue the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u22	I'd just finish it. I will follow up on the fact that, in essence, you provided the report to a third party at least a week before publication, and as evidence, it is an electronic document that has been delivered to all the members of the committee in which your comments are to be made on the draft final report. There we will find changes in the revision mode of documents as the author of the comments, the revisions are from September 12, 13, 14, Mr Holoubek. It's Mr. Holoubek's name, it's in the revisions. I think the members can look it up, even the chairman of the committee can confirm it. So I'm asking, on September 12th, September 13th, Mr. Holoubek. Who's Mr. Holoubek? I'm not supposed to think that's Professor Holoubek, who was a witness here in this case, and you sent him a draft report a week before the commission was published to remind him? The witness is commenting on the draft report of the commission of inquiry, isn't it? [[Mr. Gazdík.]] That's proven, it's in the materials, there's a Holoubek in the revisions. Then come explain to us who Mr Holoubek is, and in addition, your assistant Marek Smetana sent the material: In the annex I send a draft final report with comments and highlighted additional text. And in those revisions, the name is Holoubek. So why don't you come and explain to us why you gave it to him and who Mr. Holoubek is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. That was a point of fact. Mr Gazdík is reporting with a factual comment in his reply. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u24	I'm sorry, but the fact that I consult some things with my assistant may be perfectly natural. You also work with your assistants. That's one thing. This was not a final report, at which stage it was some proposal that I consult with experts and with my colleagues. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Strýček, once again, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u26	So, Mr Gazdík, do not be angry at me at all through the President because Mr Holoubek - the material was sent by your assistant - which is mentioned in the revisions - reminded the report, at least five comments from Professor Holoubek are in the revisions, in the report you sent. So Mr. Holoubek is your assistant?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. I do not have any further factual comments at this time, so we will continue the debate in the order of priority rights raised in writing. Mr Jurečka yet with a factual remark - with priority? Yes. So, Mr Jurečka, according to my records, as it has been passed on to me, has entered the general debate at 9.42, so now it is his turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. In the general debate, I will now take the liberty of reacting even further than what I said here before approving the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting. I would also like to respond in that first part to what Radek Vondráček, President of the House, said: certainly not to use the Institute of Investigation Committees, but I am surprised that with a similar speech, if Radek Vondráček wants to be consistent, he did not speak during the last term of the election, when the Committee of Investigation on Opencard and D 47 and similar appearances of Radek Vondráček and subsequently the President of the House were being dealt with here, even when the question of the committee of inquiry on OKD was being dealt with. So when it's convenient, Radek Vondráček doesn't come forward with this opinion and he doesn't say anything, and when it touches, of course unpleasantly, the government, where the Prime Minister of the ANO movement and his colleague is the Minister of the Environment, will bring his opinion, when he actually tells us here that the commission of inquiry as an institute, and thus I understand the position of the YES movement, will want to cancel in the next parliamentary term. Well, we certainly can't agree with that. The House is not only a legislative body, but it is a body that gives confidence to the government and has in its Rules of Procedure, in addition to its commission of inquiry, as an exceptional institute and other instruments by which it exercises control over the government and what the government is doing. So we can't say that we're just purely legislative here, but we also have this plane and this responsibility. If the High Representative of the ANO movement is here to say that he wants to limit the House's ability in exceptional situations to enter such a form of investigative commission in order to check whether the procedure is government, other institutions, not only law enforcement authorities, but, for example, institutions that fall under individual ministries, correct, or also the conduct and conduct of ministries no longer wants to control, then it is very serious information at this time too. So I do, and I don't think we can support the coalition of the COO, either, to try to narrow down citizens' control activities through elected legislators. So much for Radek Vondráček. And now let us respond to what the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec said. We certainly do not make investigators, and a really large part of the Commission's final report concerns facts from the point of view of activity and coordination of key individual supervisory authorities. When the Minister looks at page 14, there is a situation before the accident at the beginning of the detected errors and shortcomings, where simply when we look at what is said there, I think the Minister of the Environment will find it very difficult to make any opposing arguments against it. I will quote from the report: "By the time of the crash, the system of control, surveillance and mapping appeared to be optimally set, and there was no reason for major changes. " That's just something the Minister can't disagree with. If this system had been set up optimally, we would have had a long-term approval decision here, we would have had a water law here long ago in the legislative regulation, we would have had modifications here long ago even in the methodological guidelines that are being modified after the crash. [[12.50 hours]] If we look at the control status of the Czech environmental inspection of the main waste water producers in the former Tesla complex in Rožnov, there have been no errors in the last two years. The controls were carried out there - unfortunately, the Minister is not listening now - the checks were carried out there, but no major errors were found there. So how'd the checks go? What quality? Did the auditors who did there realize, for example, the connection to how the system of information is set up when the Regional Authority grants permission, to what extent it is consulted and noted to the Water Authority at the level of the ORP and vice versa? In the last 10, 20 years, has anyone from the employees of the CIP or the water authorities warned the Ministry of the Environment about the issue of uncharted sewer systems, i.e. inaccurately mapped out, the issue of the approval decisions, which were issued in the last century to industrial areas, which were divided into many individual companies at the time of privatisation? Has anyone from the Ministry of Finance pointed out that this situation needs to be dealt with legislatively? I did not notice this and I think that objectively admit and say to myself: Yes, that is a mistake, the mistake, we can say, primarily goes to the Ministry, and perhaps also to the entire House and to the various committees. [[the need for]] Then, when we look at the other things, questions were discussed here about how to deal with and approach individual inspectors of the Czech Environment Inspection. We know that they don't even have a helicopter, that they don't even have a priority right on the road with a blue beacon or anything like that, but those things are when I hear that there's a big-scale crash going beyond the territory of two ORPs and two counties, so I think that things can be coordinated over the phone on the way to the place, for example, the question of securing evidence. And it's not possible to make excuses that other authorities should have done it and that it should have done more water and more police. After all, the law clearly states that Czech environmental inspection is responsible for coordination, but also for investigating the accidents. I mean, she couldn't see the Czech special environment that Sunday, that it would be something that the police would be saving 100%. So they too should have tried to ensure the maximum quality evidence that either excluded or confirmed the possible source of contamination of the Bečva River. So you can't say here and you can't evolve and you can't say it's what other people should do, we're the ones who don't have a car, we can't run it over in time. Telephones and communications nowadays I think it can also work on the way from Brno or Olomouc. I miss other things, too. I think that in April we would not talk about the commission of inquiry at all if, at the initiative of the Minister of the Environment, a working group was formed here across all the political parties, which should write the ambition in a managerial manner, where there were weak and strong places where there were errors, how it would respond, amendments to laws will be prepared, not just water law, and some things have been set in motion and will be adopted by the end of this parliamentary term. And there's nothing accepted. We have a year and two weeks since the situation and really apart from the adjustment... minor methodological adjustments have not changed at all in legislation. Not at all! You can do it in a year if there's a will. And I didn't see the management approach to really sum up from all the structures and degrees, to say where we perceive white spots on the map of competences, equipment and the like, so that this can be resolved. I didn't notice anything like that on the part of the Ministry of Justice. On the contrary, I'm sorry and annoyed, and I think it upsets everyone who looks at it when a representative of the scientific community comes, makes an attempt, so instead of saying, "Let's think about it, can't there be any truth in it, let's have a dialogue and cooperation with this person, because he's probably a scientist and an expert, either by inspection or by investigators, and let's say if his experiment doesn't have some relevance - no, not at all. Off the table, we won't talk about it at all, on the contrary, to Professor Hruška and to the representative of the fishing union we will start administrative proceedings. It's hard to explain to people why such an approach. I don't even have to be an investigator, I don't even have to be an extremely educated person to say to myself, "That's weird. These people pointed something out, and either the opponent in the discussion will say to them: In the experiment you made methodological mistakes, there is no relevance or vice versa. So it's hard for us to explain to people who ask us that, and the work of a forensic expert - I don't like to judge these things, but if it turns out that this person is going to break what the law requires him to do, then how are we supposed to react? A forensic expert who -- he talks to the media? Then what are these people supposed to think about it? What are the interested parties supposed to think about this, including leaks from the expert report to the media, when she wrote about it, if I'm not mistaken, the first media in the MAFRA publishing group? It's not normal. As members of the committee of inquiry, we had practically all the materials at our disposal sometime from the second week in August. None of us leaked information, no one took a picture of the cell phone file, even if we held it in my hand, and I had a chance to read it for about three hours. We didn't do it. Why did it go to the media? How many people did this file work with? Not so much. What bothers me here, too, is that here, Minister, you say there are false accusations. Please be nice, then take the same metro to your colleagues. It bothers me that your Prime Minister, a former colleague from the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, has been taking my person into his mouth in the last few days on TV. As for the catastrophic situation in the woods, I regularly informed the government with you about what was going on. The materials were common, and we also gave a proposal on how to deal with the situation. I don't remember the finance minister Andrej Babiš performing at that government that day or you said, "This is wrong, you, Minister Jurečka, are doing it wrong, your deputy, whom we nominated there, is doing it wrong, and we want to do it differently. We have always said: The situation is serious, it is the result of two factors, the last 120 years of species composition of forests and planting and the effects of climate change. And now your Prime Minister, your chairman, is in a debate where I'm not present, and he says it's Jurečka's fault. It's not fair, I think it's hard to bend over the knee. So please, nicely, when you guys are using stuff here where you're pointing out on the other side that the committee here had the ambition to frame someone, I've never publicly - never - told whether DEZA could or couldn't. I merely said that I am sorry and annoyed at the same time that during Sunday and Monday immediately after the accident they were not taken from any possible suspicious samples that would either refute it unambiguously or confirm it. [[places?]] And then it gets very complicated, for all of us uncomfortable, in the form of an expert opinion. So don't put any members of the investigation committee in your mouth - and I'm one of them - something I never said. So please take a good look, Minister, at the very end of the investigation committee report, because I don't think you've quite read it. I quote to you the last two paragraphs: "The ecological accident on the Bečva river, apart from the effects on the river itself and the whole ecosystem, has brought a number of serious facts that point to many significant shortcomings in the activities of supervisory authorities, minor or serious errors, to major shortcomings in current legislation. In view of the above, it would be appropriate to establish this commission again in the next parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, to give another longer mandate for its work so that the Commission can complete its work in more detail and detail. The purpose of the investigation committee is not, was not and will not replace the work of the Police of the Czech Republic, the State Attorney's Office and the courts. The past two months of the Commission's work have shown that there has been years of a state that has not yet been addressed and has not been brought to the attention of it. And even now that the accident took place a year ago, there were no systemic changes that would have led to a significant risk reduction in the future, preventing similar possible environmental accidents. Therefore, the work of a similar commission makes sense in the future. In its outputs, it would be an engine for legislative and other changes in the activities of individual ministries, authorities, supervisory organisations and other components to improve significantly." That's the final conclusion of the investigation committee. I quoted it as it is written, not once did the word "Czech Environmental Inspection" fall out. I think that conclusion is written in a very correct and objective way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. So first, for colleagues, let's make it clear how we're going to proceed. I have here a rather large set of applications, priority rights, factual remarks, so it is clear that within 13 hours, or 14 hours, we will definitely not be able to arrange this. However, I was given an agreement that this 119th meeting was to be adjourned because of the 120th meeting, and then we will continue after the 120th meeting. [[13.00 hours]] At the moment, the order is as follows: I have here, with Mr Nacher's factual comment, then with the factual remark of Minister Brabec, then we would return to the debate on priority rights, where Mr Strýček, then Mr Blaha, then Mr Benešík. Then I would like to give the floor to the Director when we voted on his presence, and then we would move on to the proper parliamentary rights, where, on the one hand, there are the three who are on the screen, and then I have Mr Nacher's application, which was delivered at 9.20. Unfortunately, I do not know where it fits in that order, but I am absolutely sure that it was before Mr Podal. If there is a will, I would now make factual remarks, but if the speakers don't want it, then we will interrupt it at this moment. So I'm going to ask Mr Nacher if he wants to make his point now, or if we wait until after the end of the 120th meeting. Mr. Nacher, is he interested in speaking now, or are we interrupting? [[From the diaper sounds interested in a break.]] There will be a break, but we will let factual remarks be made so that they are in context. So, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u30	I want to increase political culture a little bit. I'm not gonna interrupt here if there's a deal that's a break - I wouldn't do it, but if there's a deal, it's 13.01. I'm not entitled to the de facto one, and I'm gonna save it for later. But if it's continuous, I'd be happy to share it here. So tell me what regime we're in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u31	Vice-President Okamura tells me... Ambassador, I can sit here as long as I want. Lunch break is a purely customary right, so if you're interested, we'll continue now, it's purely about your will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u32	No, K, there's an agreement between the Presidents that I've heard is a break, so I'm gonna have one of my own, I hope I don't forget it, or I'm sure I won't forget it. And then I'm logged in this morning. So I'm in front of the MPs who are logged in here on the screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u33	Okay, thank you. So in that case, the way I understand it is that it's willing to interrupt at this point, so we're going to interrupt. Once again, what is the order: Mr Nacher with a factual remark, Minister Brabec with a factual remark, then Mr Strýček, Mr Blaha, Mr Benešík. Then, Mr Geuss, and then we would get to a general debate without priority rights. I wish you a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue the 119th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which we have interrupted today. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your identification cards. I checked you out one more time. Log in again, please, because I've been having a bit of a mess. We will continue to discuss this point. Although we still haven't fulfilled the Treaty, this means that we can't vote on any matters. I refer the replacement cards and their numbers to 119. meeting in the morning and 120th meeting, possibly repeat and supplement. We will therefore continue to discuss paragraph 1 of the approved programme on the programme, which is the Final Report of the Chamber of Deputies' Committee on Environmental Disaster on the Bečva River, House document 9016. Let me repeat what happened before we interrupted this point. Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Brabec are registered in order of fact. [[Minister Brabec: I am interrupting.]] It's jamming. Mr Strýček, Mr Blaha and Mr Benešík. Then Mr. Director Geuss, who is no longer present because he is excused from 3:30 p.m. So I would like to give the floor to Mr Patrik Nacher on a factual point, and he will be prepared with priority rights for now, Mr Strýček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u35	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I signed up for the actual moment when the point wasn't even launched because I wanted to draw attention to a few things. Here again, it became clear how this point was abused before the elections. This one. Why? Because the first - we'll remember - between 10:00 and 11:00, everyone was performing with priority rights, when it was impossible to get involved, explaining that the point would not be approved. That point was approved by all Members present, and as I asked the management of the club, it was announced in advance. So I don't understand what kind of theater was that people with priority rights were here to perform, that they wouldn't approve, and it's gonna be approved, and now those with priority rights aren't here, and they're gonna go somewhere campaigning. This is the first thing that needs to be mentioned here, because then the ordinary Member cannot respond. I keep telling people on the street that there are MPs who are better off and worse off. Then I wanted to say two things -- and then I'll go back to it in more detail when it comes to my turn -- those are the double standards. I have detailed quotes from individual opponents here, so I'm going to take this very quickly. Two meters from the point of view of the police - the police are protected by the Cape's čapí. I have a quote from all the Members, including my colleague Gazdík, who is closest to Bečva, while it does not develop as it should, and the police are even under the scrutiny of the commission of inquiry. I'm not an experienced legislator here, but I don't know how many cases there are where the investigation committee was on a live file. But there's a lot more of those double meters. Maybe I've noticed double standards about leaking to the media. So the leak to the media that my colleague Jurečka here criticized -- well, I've already got zero. [[Time.]] You see, there's nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u36	Time, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Mr Stanislav Blaha, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just wanted to correct Mr. Nacher's statement. You lie, my colleague, through Mr President, because I have spoken with priority rights, I sit here honestly, I am ready for discussion. The fact that there was an agreement is not true, until the last moment it was uncertain. We even heard a report from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, your party colleague, who explained to us why he voted against this point and regretted that you had not been added more. So much for your speech, I guess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u38	Mr Patrik Nacher, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for the reaction. Well, I guess you have more information than I do. I came here from the beginning today to vote for that point because there are two special meetings today. That is why I was surprised that, before the opening of the meeting, Members with priority rights appeared. Well, I'll explain it to everyone on the outside. The club's chairman and the party's chairman have priority rights, which is a third of the club's club, which has six members and seven members. This means that when two clubs come together with 13 Members, they have four priority rights. That's right. When the three smallest clubs agree, there's 23 of them and they have six priority rights. The club's priority rights, which are 78, are two, we don't count ministers. That means there's a debate going on, too. It's also an answer to why somebody from the government coalition doesn't ever get to the microphone. That's just an explanation, because outsiders don't know. I'm gonna say two more double standards, and then when it comes to me, if it's gonna happen, I'm gonna go into more detail. I've noticed and taken emotional notes. Media leaks - I think Marián Jurečka said that something appeared in the Mladá fronta in Mafra - that's how I see leaks to the media, even from the security forces, in Respekt or the Hospodářské noviny, and it clearly doesn't matter there. So either we're gonna be bothered with leaks to the media every time or never. But this selectiveness, it really irritates me. [[16.10 hours]] As well as political affiliation. So he was mentioned here, and I personally don't know him, Mayor Stržínek, I wrote to myself, from Wallachian Meziříčí, and it was emphasized that he was for YES. But the moment he emphasizes that this expert, Mr. Hruška, is from the TOP 09, and he's even involved in the program... [[Time.]] ... so they say: he's an expert, and why are you stressing the party affiliation? So it's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u40	I beg you to observe the time to make a point of fact. Mr Vlastimil Válek, Mr Jan Lipavský will prepare. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Just for those from outside, I am the chairman of the TOP 09, I have not exercised the right of priority, today I have not performed with or without the right of priority, but if someone could not fall asleep because of this or had another mind that I did not have the right of priority, just indicate, I will use it and I will be happy to make you happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Member Jan Lipavský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, you have quite nicely listed here what all the preferential rights are and are not, and if you lack the votes behind the coalition, then, of course, ministers can speak, but they would have to come to the House sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u44	Mr Vít Kaňkovský, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u45	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, only briefly to my esteemed colleague Patrik Nacher, through Mr President. We all know it's complicated with the priority rights. I agree perfectly that it is often abused here, but if you want, my dear fellow, and truly, I have respect for you and I think that we have worked together in many ways, then take the same metro. We had two meetings here today, one of which you mentioned how priority rights were abused here, but what about the other meeting? What about your Prime Minister's extemporacy, who with the salary bill material - there was only a very close link, otherwise it was a classic election speech by the Prime Minister who had the task of throwing up the whole opposition. And there were other members of the government coalition who took advantage of the priority right only here for this. So if you measure, you measure all the same subway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u46	I would like to point out that we are discussing the final report of the Chamber of Deputies' committee on the environmental disaster on the Bečva river, and I have not yet heard of any of this in this afternoon's block, because we are talking about completely different things, so I would also like to draw attention to what they should or should not serve factual remarks. I'll read the apologies. Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes from 16.10 until the end of the day for reasons of employment, Mr Ivo Vondrák apologises today between 16 and 19 until the end of the day for reasons of business, Mr Jan Birke between 16 and 19.00 until the end of the day for reasons of employment. Mr Farský apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Mráčková Vildumetzová between 16 a.m. and 19 a.m. until the end of the day for family reasons. At the moment, Mr. Strýček will perform with priority rights for the club. Mr Blaha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say from this point of view my opinion on the whole case of Bečva and even the setting up of a committee of inquiry. Of course, the environmental accident that occurred on the Bečva River on 20 September 2020 is certainly a disaster that should not be repeated, and all steps should be taken so that similar accidents in the future cannot happen again. But what I have to say, and what actually irritated me about the whole thing from the very beginning, is the enormous politicalization that has been behind this environmental accident. I'm going to draw two planes now. At the time that this commission of inquiry was set up, its staff took place and began to work, the Police of the Czech Republic handed over a proposal to initiate criminal proceedings against one natural and one legal person, so for me - on the level of criminal law - basically the commission had nothing to investigate and had nothing to investigate. If we talk about the level of expertise, i.e. possible outputs of the commission of inquiry towards legislation, I personally see the establishment of the commission of inquiry as completely unnecessary. Here it was enough simply to make an expert committee, which would consist of experts, well, there could be some politicians, of course, it should be dealt with in the form of audits, for example, on the progress of the authorities involved, there should be seminars and so on and so on. But I'm sure it shouldn't be addressed here by setting up an investigation committee. Of course, I know, or even from the activity or from the reports we saw there, there were some discrepancies in particular regarding the process procedures for reporting and eliminating the accident. There were, of course, problems in some mutual information and coordination of the activities of the authorities concerned, and I'm sure those procedures will have to be set up in some way in the future to avoid this, but, of course, as I said before, basically there was no need to set up an investigative committee at all, plus a committee that had very short time to work, because - I don't know - that committee started working sometime - maybe in mid-September. In addition, since it was crucial from my point of view, the commission was essentially not made up of experts. I confess, I'm not an environmental expert either, even though I was on that committee. So I think that even from this point of view, from a technical point of view, I consider it unnecessary to set up that committee of inquiry. I felt that the main reason for the commission of inquiry was to maintain it was the efforts of opposition politicians to keep this case of Bečva in the media area until the elections to the Chamber of Deputies and, of course, to extract appropriate political points from it. [[16.20 hours]] As you may already know or how the media went, I did not vote for the final report. And why I didn't vote, that's what I'm trying to say here, or I'll try to say. The crucial reason why I did not vote in favour of the report is, of course, that I did not vote in favour of setting up this committee of inquiry. I personally consider the setting up of committees of inquiry by the Chamber of Deputies to be a reduction of confidence in the work of the Police of the Czech Republic, prosecutors and overall justice. We all know that these committees have never investigated anything. Let us compare Opencard or OKD and so on and their establishment is basically just a policy for me. The Police of the Czech Republic is to investigate, not the commission of inquiry. Although this commission has previously set a limit not to interfere with police work, it evaluates and relativizes at least one point in its work. I believe the work of the Police of the Czech Republic and I believe that even in this case the ecological accident on the Bečva river was done correctly. This may have been confirmed in the end by the supervising prosecutor, who rejected as an unjustified complaint against the resolution on the motion to initiate the criminal prosecution in the case of Bečva, which was filed by the parties. So if we support the independence of the Czech judiciary, then let us wait for the decision of the courts, otherwise we only support the judicial system when it suits. Furthermore, it has also been said here, it is the first commission that has been set up for a living file, which, in my view, is, of course, a hugely dangerous precedent. Just if we don't like anything next time we investigate the police, we're gonna set up an investigation committee? Then let's just cancel the Police of the Czech Republic and set up, I don't know, folk trials or witch hunts. Of course, this whole case was accompanied by considerable political bias. Mr. Gazdík here shortly after the event on his Twitter, he investigated the entire case politically and found Deza the culprit. tweet then deleted with an apology, and then recently he even lied that he hadn't released such a tweet at all. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, so she was on her way to take a picture of herself outside Deza's front gate with the fact that we are investigating Bečva, which, of course, tells the subliminal public who she thinks is the culprit. So, for me, I'm really biased. Personally, I can tell how I perceived it, during the whole of this case and the work of the commission was constantly on the part of opposition politicians as well as some mainstream media or Internet servers, wannabe experts discovered a number of speculations, conjectures, hypotheses that either indirectly or directly pointed to Dezu Valašské Meziříčí as a culprit. However, whenever these hypotheses or conjectures were somehow refuted, new ones appeared immediately. We all know that at first it was phenols, then it was cyanide, then it wasn't cyanide, then it was cyanide, then it was chlorine. It just changed all the time, the way the whole investigation changed. Furthermore, I have to say what I have personally said, that some opposition politicians and, of course, many media have intervened in the factual and technical procedure of the competent authorities and have basically anticipated the results of police investigations without having any idea of the evidence and actual procedural procedures presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u48	Please, let's just... [[Communication from a Member of the War off the microphone.]] Please don't shout at yourself and speak to the point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u49	We know how there was an attempt to distrust the forensic expert Klicpera, who culminated in the moment when a wannabe opponent attempt appeared, basically ignorant of hydrodynamics, Professor Jakub of Hruška, who, as has already been said here, is, of course, a TOP 09 member and a TOP 09 candidate for the European Parliament. Whoever came to know the investigation file must have clearly seen the technical evidence of Mr. Klicpera's trial. Personally, I believe, as I said, it is a living file, and I believe, for these very reasons, to in some way prevent constant hypotheses, conjectures and so on, basically, the supervising prosecutor has released this living file for the needs of the commission of inquiry. I have been very familiar with the file personally and I am convinced that the conclusions of the investigation and decisions of the Police of the Czech Republic are correct. In my opinion, some of the other colleagues in the committee of inquiry did not even bother to get to know the file, for they seemed to have been clear from the outset who was basically the culprit. My personal opinion again. In the work of the commission of inquiry, it may have seemed to me that some witnesses, such as Mr Pernický, Professor Holoubek and Fisherman Gerla, were invited and summoned at the first meeting of the committee in Zlín, not as witnesses, but only as experts, and all others such as Mr Geuss, director of the water management office of Valašský Meziříčí Křístek and so on, Mr Pustějovskýějovský, representative of the Police of the Czech Republic Tkadleček, were then directly formally summoned and testified in the regime of witness statements as witnesses. My attempt, in essence, when the final report was made or adapted, was, of course, to clarify some information in the final report concerning, for example, the alleged deterioration of samples transmitted by fishermen in Hustopaechy nad Bečvou, the allegedly unknown fate of samples taken on the day of the accident under the Khoryň bridge firefighters and handed over to the VTU VM worker and last but not least the results of the analysis of samples taken 21. 9. VAK Vsetín workers at the waste water treatment plant at the outlet of Energoaqua and unobstructed samples by the worker ČIŽP Olomouc in Hustopečí nad Bečvou. However, some of my proposals for additions have not been clarified and for obvious reasons, because they simply did not fit in with the report. Well, I'd just like to, because, of course, they're constantly demonized here, and he's already told Mr. Blaha here, samples that ended up in a bucket somewhere in the fridge, and no one knows their fate. So I'll explain my fate. Of course, this information, as reported in the report, has once again triggered a wave of media speculation that samples have been deliberately lost, which is not true. According to the witness statement of the head of water law office in Valašské Meziříčí, samples of water and seven pieces of fish were stored in the fridge at the workplace of the water authority in Valašské Meziříčí, because the expert laboratories that could carry out the analysis did not work on Sunday. The samples were on 21. 9. transferred to the accredited laboratory VAK Vsetín and samples of fish were sent to the laboratory of the State Institute Olomouc. It was by analysing these samples, and in particular water, that the levels of cyanide established for surface water have been exceeded several times. This is also confirmed by the report on the tests carried out by VAK Vsetín Central Laboratory on 25. 9. In addition, the analysis of samples taken at the Energiaqua discharge on 21. Nine, the day after the crash. That's where the VAK workers, who then controlled 21. 9. when they were checking their discharge from the sewage treatment plant, they noticed at the outlet of Energoaqua that the situation was not in normal condition, so these samples were taken from this discharge and these samples were subsequently transmitted to the laboratory, accredited central laboratory VAK Vsetín, where the analysis of these samples was carried out. The analysis measured that the permissible level of cyanide for the waste water discharge of Energoaqua, established by the Regional Authority in Zlín, was 1.69, i.e. 0.69, because it has a limit of 1 milligram per litre. Here it must be stressed that this value was measured the day after the crash and the day after the dilution of Bečva. Again - the day after the accident and the day after the dilution of Bečva there was a significant overrun of the cyanide limit for the waste water discharge of Energoaquy. [[16.30 hours]] All this information - there are no leaks from the files - is available on the website of Valašský Meziříčí, where there are mandatory published information in the section. There is a database of information provided on page 2, it is below date 14. 4. 2021 and there are protocols with sampling control and local investigations. These data were published there at the request of the Association Freedom of Speech Brno pursuant to Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to environmental information. There were, of course, points in that final report concerning criminal proceedings and the work of the Police of the Czech Republic. There was one point that I proposed to delete, because, on the basis of the recommendations of Dr. Balounová's investigative committee, who also recommended that the Commission consider releasing a part of the text that might lead to a threat to criminal proceedings, I suggested that the text be deleted from this report, which the Commission did not accept. Moreover, in this text, the Commission, with virtually no knowledge of the work and procedure of the police investigator, evaluates the work, criticizes the work, which, in my opinion, does not belong to it, and disrespects the work of the Police of the Czech Republic. So it's just some basic information that I thought it was necessary to get you to know why I didn't vote for the final report. If I may, I'll set up a meeting for the morning. When we were talking to the rapporteur here about the report he sent or the comments he sent to his assistant, Mrs. Secretary, and then Mrs. Pěnčíková, as chairman of the committee, because I was not answered, I would really need to know in those revisions who Mr. Holoubek, who, on 12, 13 and 14 September, was commenting on the draft report of the committee of inquiry. Okay, just to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u50	The rapporteur will reply with a factual remark, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u51	I'll answer Mr. Strýček right now without revealing anything from the file. Mr Holoubek was one of those who attended the first meeting of the Bečva Commission in Zlín, where he provided us - not during interrogation, but he is Professor Holoubek - who gave us his opinion as an expert and hydrologist on the matter. In his session in Zlín, he said the wrong thing - and I will not specify it, I will be happy to tell Mr. Strýček as a member of the committee personally - and she did not respond to the other evidence that was in the file with written evidence. I asked him. He then - you can check with the secretary or investigator - even repaired this part of him, e-mailed them, and the e-mails are available where he made it clear. But while we were talking, we had a more disproportionate conversation, and then I put a comment in my notes under the name Holoubek to know what Mr Holoubek said. Here I have proof, one comment is needed - "according to his information did not occur in the afternoon after finding out" and so on - certainly Mr Holoubek would not write to himself "according to his information." [[shows paper A4]] That's what I wrote, and I tagged the Holoubek. That's all. It's a shame, Mr. Strýček, if you were so honest about how you're doing this investigation in Bečva, maybe we'd be even further away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Mr. Strýček with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u53	I therefore have to respond to this, because what you are here now, Mr Member or rapporteur Gazdík, through the President, said I would rather not comment. Because it is clear there is clearly proof of the document that has been delivered to all members of the commission and in which the comments are in the mode of marked changes under the name Holoubek. Meaning you changed your computer to Mr. Holoubek and sent it there?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u54	Please don't shout at yourself. If you have something to say, say it on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u55	I don't really want to comment on this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u56	Next, Mr Blaha, with priority rights, will appear with the ODS's opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I've been criticized here for using priority rights, that's true. In this second speech, I wanted to respond to what was said here from the Minister's mouth. Now I add that I will also respond to what was said here from the mouth of my colleague Strýček. It's a lot to complement, so it'll be more complex. First, I want to say that I've been following this case since the beginning, and it was really my motivation to react in some way to those things and all the statements that were going on about the case, because they often went against each other, they didn't really match reality. And from the beginning, in those statements that actually came from different mouths, and I think I said it here in my first entry, there was something that attracted my attention. Therefore, aside from the fact that I am indeed a Member of the Zlín Region where the disaster occurred, and I am also an active fisherman, so that the death of such a number of fish logically could not escape my attention. I've been appointed here from the Minister's mouth that I'm one of those people who politicize the case. I've never tried to politicize the case in any way with my statements. I was just pointing out all the things that attracted attention. It was the first screams, for example. that it wasn't DEZA, and yet it was a chemical plant that was the closest to the fish death detected. This in itself was interesting, especially when it was said from Mr Agrofert's mouth that DEZA was not working with cyanides to prove that this was not true either. I felt it was a chance to set up a committee of inquiry, as a chance to do something to prevent such things from happening again in the future. But, of course, there is absolutely nothing to prevent, and when something like this has happened, so that rules are set that would, of course, prevent the damage from being so high and that the culprit is discovered as soon as possible. I think the committee has actually done an excellent job. We tried to avoid the evaluation of the police work, because, as you say, the file is alive, the police investigator is not yet finished, it was asked to produce new expert opinions, to complete the file and so on and so forth. But as members, we also had an investigator's report, and I am very sorry about this position that we can't comment on it, because then some of these arguments could sound much clearer, and everyone would know that there is something really wrong with this matter. The minister mentioned here that there were no mistakes made by the CIA, that there were errors made by the Water Authority. But, Minister, I think you must know that, the Water Authority, that is also the performance of the state administration, albeit in a delegated capacity, namely the cities of Valašské Meziříčí, but it is the performance of the state administration. And I took it as a matter of fact that our task within the commission is to point out how these activities were not coordinated, how really everyone did everything, but ultimately nobody did anything. The Water Department even sent firemen home after a few hours. [[16.40 hours]] And while we are dealing with the Valašské Meziříčí ORP, the crisis crew of the ORP has not been convened, which I would consider appropriate, but what I find absolutely incomprehensible has not been warned by the population of Valašské Meziříčí and the surrounding area. In fact, these people didn't know that there was something in the river that could threaten their health. They didn't know until about four days later. And it would also be good to point out that next time there is some kind of manual on how to proceed in such situations. I would be very careful, as the Minister has said, that our committee has bent something. We were trying to describe the facts as it sounded. And I certainly didn't understand that we'd be trying to be kind of tenuous. And the fact that one member of the Commission voted against the report is understandable, too. He just might have had a different opinion about it. I can say it now because he actually confessed to it himself that it was him, so it's no longer classified information. I just don't understand, and it came out of Mr Strýček's mouth: he said he didn't vote for the report because he didn't agree to set up the committee. I do not understand this as much - because I do not agree with the establishment, then I will be nanominated to the committee to vote against the report, because I did not agree to the establishment of the committee. That doesn't make sense to me, and it's illogical. I think, therefore, that there should be a nomination for the YES movement for a person who would like to work on that committee. And when we talk about what was voted and included in the report and what was not, I also want to point out that all the members of the Commission have tried to take account of all the comments that have arrived. And I also say that Mr Strýček sent his comments significantly later than in the deadline we set ourselves and in a different form than we have chosen to work better with it. Nevertheless, we devoted ourselves to them honestly and in detail, and by voting for a reminder, we either accepted or ruled out. I suppose that's indisputable. I'd like to comment on the chlorine here -- specifically, it was described not as chlorine, but really as a savo, that means chlornane. And then the fishermen checked it out on some samples to be able to identify exactly what they felt that day. The chlorine was also mentioned by the Moravian Flood worker and other people, and even according to their information, they provided this information to the police, so it's not something they wouldn't know about. And the first mention of this fact that the river smelled of savo or something like that was made on that Sunday of the 29th of last year, the day of the disaster. So, Minister, it's not true that no one mentioned the chlorine or anything like that. That's all these people were confused about. They said they felt their hands dry, that because they were splashing blood at a certain point, they just felt like they had a tickled mucous membranes. And those were the people who were in the water for a long time because they had to take 40 tons of fish out of it. And I wouldn't question their claims very much, because they're people who live with the river, who are even outside the time when there's an accident like this, and, of course, they're competent to assess the difference between the normal situation and the condition just after the crash. So I wouldn't make fun of them. Mr. Klicpera, that sounded about right here from both of your mouths. The Commission did not question the expert of Klicpera, Mr Klicpera questioned himself, because if someone is to produce an expert opinion for the police in the regime, when the case is being investigated, he is the one who was not to speak on the case, and certainly not to communicate his views and attitudes on social networks. I think he failed, and as a person to work with the police, he's really untrustworthy. I think the communication from the Minister of Justice is drawing up the matter and highlighting it. She wasn't waiting for our committee to take any initiative, she started acting alone. A separate chapter is his expert opinion as such, because at a time when the expert opinion supposedly went from expert to police post, I received a question from Mr. Pustějovskýějovský, a member of the board of directors of Dez, if I had seen the photos. And when I asked what photos, it was supposed to be those photos from an opinion that no one saw at the time. But that day, he happened to write an Idnes about them, but no one else could logically see them. And when I asked if he saw them, he started to back down with the fact that he was involved in some kind of trial. Then, of course, he denied it after a while. But at that point, he was telling me and he asked me if I had seen the photos of an opinion that the police hadn't officially had at the time. Isn't that weird? Well, it seems very strange to me, and there were a lot of these things about this case. So much for my addition, Minister. I think we're actually unable to do anything to improve the environment in the Czech Republic... After all, our proposals for legislation, I think, are things that can be used for the future and that will benefit our society. Perhaps you see it differently, I see that the work of the committee has been beneficial. And the fact that you don't like something about her work, that you don't agree with some conclusions doesn't mean that there were morons on that committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u58	Minister with a factual remark. Then, with a factual remark, Mr Strýček and Mr Holík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u59	I apologise, Mr Blaha, by your means, Mr President. You guys are so relationship-y. I've never talked about it, and if you go on record, you'll find that I appreciated the work of the committee in the part that's legislative, and there I've always said, that's what we would have agreed. But you're, I don't know, an outsider, by mistake, or intentionally said one pretty important thing, but it confirms what I said or what bothers me. You said it was probably the fault of the water service, but that's also the state administration. Well, you're right, but it's not the government under the environmental department. And now I'm not looking for any alibi that this guy is to blame. I made it clear that there was coordination. But the report is awfully oriented in a way that the český Inspection is also responsible for the tide and tide in the finals, okay? Just for everything that's in there, it's always gonna end up there, but then she's either responsible for the inspection, or she's somehow involved. That bothers me, and this is proof to me that it's bent. I'm not saying the whole message is bent. I say again, on the subject of proposals for concrete amendments to legislative regulations, we agree there. Too bad Minister Jurečka isn't here. I'd just tell him how beautifully he put a trap on, because he was talking about what was done, but he forgot a little bit that he was the Minister of Agriculture. And a lot of these things fall under the Minister of Agriculture, because they come out and everything, that goes under the water catchment management. And then I'd like to ask him what he did when he was a minister. But okay, he's not here. And again, don't push me to make fun of the fishermen. I, like you, paused on some of the things that I don't think are there and have no logic. And for example, why you didn't invite witnesses as a committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u60	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u61	I'm sorry, I was talking... Yeah, I have tech. I'm so sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u62	With a factual remark, Mr Strýček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u63	So I will respond with permission to Mr Blaha. As far as the participation of my person in the committee of inquiry is concerned, I was, of course, elected there on the basis of the mutual representation of political entities, but that does not rule out the fact that when I did not vote for the commission, and that is why I did not vote for the report, because I simply did not agree with the establishment of the committee, even though I was nominated there on the basis of a partnership representation. That's one thing. [[16.50 hours]] The second thing about my comments is that I'm late. Let me put it this way, I don't know how much the deadline was officially set up there, if it's 12 o'clock - I put it about four o'clock in the afternoon, which I don't think it's that late. Most importantly, Mr Blaha, through the President, if I were to put those remarks in there as a member of the committee of inquiry on Friday, you must accept them. I can even say those notes on Friday when we were discussing it. It's nothing against anything at all. That's another thing. And the third thing about the chlorine. You know that there were a lot of debates about the chlorine, and you know that, as in the Fire Rescue Corps protocols, which were there under the Chorina Bridge and then under the bridge in Hustopaechy that day, it was clear that there was no chlorine there. Even the workers of the authorities concerned who were there didn't feel it. It's even stated in the protocol that the fisherman who caught 500 meters downstream didn't smell any chlorine. Someone came up with the chlorine after, like, three days, that it smelled like chlorine. In all the protocols that we had at our disposal, it's clearly written that chlorine didn't smell there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u64	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Holík and Mr Blaha will prepare all the factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u65	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, the accident on the Bečva River is one of the biggest environmental accidents, but I will not agree with colleague Bartoš, who claims to be the largest. On January 9, 2006, there was a similar accident on the river Elbe, caused by Draslovka Kolín, and 40 tons of fish died there. But I'm going back to the crash on Bečva. A number of us seem to be slow in this investigation, and that is why the parliamentary commission was created on the initiative of colleagues. The Commission was formed shortly before the elections and its activities lasted only six weeks, exactly from 30. 7. to 16. 9. 2021, which is absolutely insufficient time. The task of this committee was not to investigate, but to get acquainted with the materials, to look at the case with independent eyes and see if the investigators missed a little something. I also signed up for the job on the committee because the accident took place in the Zlín Region. I am interested in nature and, among other things, I am also Vice-President of the Environment Committee. I will not be here today to politicize the case or speculate about the guilty party, but I want to think about what means it would take to prevent this crash from happening again. In almost every house we have a fire alarm, and I suggest a similar simple device, which will measure two basic parameters, that is the electroconductiveness of water and pH. These parameters would be scanned, transferred to a server somewhere. [[Time.]] And they would be signalled by the Czech Environmental Inspection and the Fire Department. [[Time.]] It's a cheap facility, and I'm applying for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u66	Time. I would ask that you read the speeches to be heard in the debate, not on a factual point, because then it does not come out in time. Thank you. Mr Blaha and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In response to Minister Brabec, I think that was the point, to describe all the mistakes that we have discovered, so that it does not happen next time, so that, as far as possible, such rescue actions can be coordinated. Once it's a water law office, once it's a Czech environmental inspection, sometimes it can be the Moravia basin. I take it from this point of view, and I often characterize it by everyone doing everything and nobody doing anything, and then it turns out that then we don't have key evidence and so on. So for me, yes, the Water Authority is really in a different resort, not in the Department of the Environment, but it's just also a state administration, and maybe it would be good if the state focused on this, so that in such situations everyone would know exactly where his position is, what his role is and who would help him and how. And that's it. And also in response to my colleague Strýček: I didn't mean to say that the objections were not accepted because they were sent late, but I only took into account that even though they were sent late or those comments, we talked about everyone and voted about them, so it wasn't about rejecting it in a tender manner, but because we didn't agree with the text. It was a majority vote and every such reminder was voted on. I don't think that can be denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u68	At this point, Mr Benešík will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, I am from the Zlín Region. It's my constituency, and I'm at home in the Zlín Region, so I'm more interested in the case of poisoned Bečva, and I don't care. And maybe you, who are also not indifferent, are looking for an answer to the question of how fish in Bečva could overcome two lakes and five rapids so that only three and a half kilometers from the place of poisoning would give up their struggle for life. Are you also shaking your head over how blind and deaf fishermen couldn't see them from the poisoning of the fleeing fish? These questions should be answered by Minister Brabec, but unfortunately I have to say that he has not done so crediblely until now and that is why the doubts remain. Because of the environmental disaster in Bečva, I have repeatedly turned to the Government in the Chamber of Deputies. It took a long time for us, despite the opposition of members of the ANO and KSČM movement, to draw up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. There has also been a petition by thousands of people. A lot of water has escaped in a heavily tested river over that time. Doubts that had justifiably arisen in relation to tens of tons of dead fish, but the government could not explain even almost a year later. We still don't have reliable investigation results, and a number of questions remain unanswered. I spoke to the fishermen who were among the first on the poisoned river. They didn't seem to follow the procedure of investigating, who immediately after the disaster didn't go upriver to a place where they could find live fish. They therefore carried out an experiment at the outlet of Rožnovská Tesla, which was designated as a source of Bečva pollution. They poured salt on the lake and examined where it mixed with water. According to their conclusions, it is not possible for fish to die up to three and a half kilometers from this discharge. The place where the fishermen found the first poisoned fish is separated from the Rožnov Canal except for this distance by five rapids and two large lakes. Overall, it is very difficult with the fishermen because they did not see what they were supposed to see, but they felt what they were not supposed to feel, i.e. chlorine. And since these fishermen are too loud, the Czech environmental inspection started their inspection because they're trying to file evidence and deny the fairy tales claimed by the forensic expert. Serious doubts are also raised by the fact that as a possible source of pollution, a DEZA chemist was removed from the suspect's circle one day after the accident. The Czech environmental inspection under the Ministry of the Environment was thus clear three days before local citizens learned about the occurrence of cyanide in the river and the health risks associated with it. [[17,00 hours]] Is it really possible to rule out as quickly as the possible source of pollution from the company, which is proven to have a channel that allows the release of cyanide containing waste water from the treatment plant directly into the river flow? How are we supposed to have confidence in institutions that are unable to detect anyone who leaked cyanide into the river in a year? How would the state ensure the safety of citizens, for example, after a terrorist chemical attack on drinking water sources, in a situation where the source of lightning pollution would have to be detected? Inspection authorities' access, but investigators too, must change. Unfortunately, under this government, which has a very serious suspicion of conflict of interest in the case, but changes cannot be expected. The new government, in cooperation with the House, must initiate legislative changes in order to protect nature more effectively, as proposed and proposed by the House of Investigation Commission. There's only one thing we have of nature, and indifference to it couldn't pay us off uglylylyly. And let me also conclude by thanking fishermen who immediately went to deal with the situation following the detection of pollution and poisoning, along with the risk of damage to their own health. And let me also thank the firefighters who assisted them effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u70	Thank you, too. At the moment we are in a classic debate, Mr Patrik Nacher is registered. She's not here, so Mrs. Dana Balcarová. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about one thing that the committee of inquiry has come up with, and that is also mentioned by Minister Brabec, which is the preparation of an amendment to the water law, which should respond to the situation that took place in Bečva, and should set up an environment and conditions for such cases to be avoided. The minister here said he agrees with what the final report of the commission of inquiry states. I would just say that the committee of inquiry only appreciates the preparation of the amendment, doesn't say that it agrees with its form. I would like to return to December last year, when we discussed here at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of Bečva, and at that time the House adopted or supported my proposal in which it called on the Minister of the Environment to draw up and discuss a binding regulation to ensure a uniform approach to the resolution of accidents in the environment, from which the competence of the various authorities of the state administration and other stakeholders would have resulted, but unfortunately, that has not happened until today, although Minister Brabec had two months in that resolution of December last year. It happened that the Ministry of the Environment submitted an amendment to the Water Act in March in a commentary procedure, and we spoke on behalf of the Pirate Party both at the level of the regions that were affected by Bečva and for the pirate MP's club. We made 11 major comments on the amendment, and unfortunately none of the comments were accepted by the Ministry of Environment. I am seriously concerned that the current amendment will not ensure that the next Bečva no longer on Sundays, and I think that this is very wrong. The pirates have prepared their own amendment to the water law and within the first 100 days of the next House we will present the amendment. And I'll just briefly mention what I see as very problematic. The problem is that the amendment entrusts accident investigations in the waters to the water authorities of the municipalities with extended scope. There are 200 of them in the Czech Republic. Often they do not have a fixed or emergency service and do not even have the capacity to save accidents. On the other hand, the Czech Water Accident Inspection has been dealing with the Czech Water Accident for almost 60 years. It's an authority that has a great tradition, it has high-quality inspectors, it has emergency services in 10 district inspectors. And all of this actually doesn't respect and change the established order, so they're trying to transfer everything to the Department of Agriculture and then the Ministry of the Environment will have no responsibility for solving, saving accidents on the waters. For example, last year, in 2020, the Czech inspection saved on the waters of 194 accidents. This means that the Czech Inspection is involved in the resolution of accidents, it has a great practice in this, as I have already said. So that is why the current amendment is poorly designed, with the fact that it is really trying to commit an authority that is not competent to do so, that is to say, water authorities that deal with the licensing agenda rather than solve accidents. I think the example is also well seen in Bečva, where a water authority worker has been in office for barely a few months, and according to the Minister of the Environment, she should be in charge of investigating such a major accident. Then it is no wonder that the accident, if it really were, was not solved by someone or controlled by someone who really has enough knowledge and practice to do so, which is very important in these cases. At the same time, what I see as problematic is that the amendment to the Water Act proposes that regional authorities raise the fund to 20 million to address environmental accidents, but that is simply very problematic, because each authority will deal with it in its own way, there will be no single procedure. We propose in our amendment, the pirate amendment, that a single fund be established, either at the Ministry of the Environment or at the State Environmental Fund, which will ensure the consistency of the procedure and also the uniformity of reporting of the use of money for the remediation of environmental accidents. So much for the amendment to the Water Act, which we see as very problematic and ineffective, and especially so that it does not prevent other bečva, and I think it is really very bad. Then I'd like to... I'm sorry that Director Geuss isn't here, Director of the Czech Environmental Inspection, because I'd like to ask him one thing. I have been e-mailed - and apparently you have all received - some reaction from the Czech Environmental Inspection just to the final report, and I have to say that I was really surprised that such an unacceptable and unprofessional output - and actually the output was created by the state authority through the mouth of its press spokesperson, and it was also published on its website - it really is hysterical output, it is not simply relevant to the report, and at the same time blames the Czech Environmental Inspection precisely because of its outputs and shit on all the others involved in the investigation of the accident, that is to say, water authorities, regional authorities, hetmans, firefighters, and even fishermen. It is a pity, therefore, that Director Geuss is not here, because I am really interested in how it is possible that Czech environmental inspection is thus expressing itself on the work of the commission of inquiry. I think it is very unprofessional and it is no wonder that the public, but we Members, too, have doubts about the professionalism of the management of the Czech Environmental Inspection. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u72	Have a good afternoon again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before I give the floor to the Minister of the Environment's factual remark, I state the apologies received from today's meeting: he apologizes until the end of the meeting day Lukáš Černohorský, Stanislav Fridrich from 16.30 to the end of the meeting day and from 16.20 Josef Bělica. Now, then, the Minister of Life of the Middle, with a factual remark, will prepare Patrik Nacher. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u73	Thank you for the floor. I think and I think that we're all kind of running out of batteries right now, so... I think a little bit, but it's good, the emotions have fallen and things have gotten, I think, really professional, objective. But just what President Balcarová said and what Mr Benešík, a colleague of Benešík, said, I think it is a beautiful indication of how absurd that committee of inquiry is in this, because Mrs Balcarová is talking about how the amendment of the law will be discussed. Great! If you have any other suggestions... [[17.10 hours]] By the way, the investigation committee report appreciates the preparation and doesn't contradict the solution, which you read well there. It doesn't contradict the solution that there will be the competence of the Fire Department or the Water Authorities, so it's not just that he's taking note of it or that we've just prepared it. But I don't think it contradicts the fact that the solution... as well as the Ombudsman agreed to it, too, if I'm not mistaken. But this is a debate, my colleague, through the President, on a completely different forum. That's the debate on the committee, that's the debate on the conference, that's the debate on the seminar, that's the debate on the new law, not the committee of inquiry. And what Mr. Benešík said is exactly the same in pale blue because you asked beautifully: The Minister should explain why the water, virtually. Why did the pollutant get through three jeans and four... Don't you feel the absurdity there, my colleague, that, with all due respect, Benešík and Brabec, who neither of them is an expert on the hydrodynamics of the river, will talk about how it flowed? This is precisely for those law enforcement authorities, or for those experts. I'm just saying it's absurd that you guys are gonna try me out here from the leak. I don't know how it's flowing, I'm not an expert, I really need to be told by the experts. And that's also, I think, proof that the committee here couldn't fulfill its assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u74	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Mrs Balcarová's factual comment, Ondřej Benešík will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to the Minister of the Environment, by your means, that I was not a member of the Commission of Investigation precisely because I see my role mainly in the preparation of new legislation, in order to prepare an environment that will allow the accident to be saved correctly, so that all the steps that have been taken are recorded, so that it is clear who is passing on what information to whom, so that it can be re-evaluated where the error occurred. Which, unfortunately, in today's case, doesn't work at all. And I'd like to say to the Minister that he says today that the Czech Inspectorate is not the one to conduct the investigation, but I'd just like to remind him that 1. 10. 2020 at the press conference he sat next to himself the director of the Olomouc Inspectorate and there he says literally: "Until the Police of the Czech Republic took over, the accident was solved by the Environmental Inspection in the role of an administrative body, which would then lead administrative proceedings." So I'd just like to remind the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. Mr Benešík's point of order now. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for the floor. I just think it's not absurd, because I've been here from the beginning saying that the commission should be created for two reasons, namely that we suspect that the authorities are not making the right progress, that they are making a lax move and that there is a suspicion that they are trying to hide something and sweep under the carpet. That's the first thing, that's the first dimension. And the second dimension is precisely: let us learn from where there are systemic errors, making legislative changes. So it has these two dimensions here, and each has its own value. The House Committee of Investigation is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure, that is the law. It is a normal institution which the House has the right to establish, and I think that in this particular case it was entirely justified and, from my perspective, it was the best possible institution offered to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Let's continue. My colleague Nacher is not present, so I will move him back, and in that case, my colleague Pustějovskýějovský can take the floor in a proper debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for the floor. I'd try to make a little more of a point about these things. Yesterday, an article in Hospodářské noviny with the inscription Police evidence to Bečva: There were poisons in the river as well as in the Rožnov cleaning plant. Two editors of the Hospodářské noviny, Mrs Jelínková and Mr Biben, describe precisely on the basis of some data that they got, what was happening in that river and what the evidence is. I'll make an easy quote. Almost 400 pages of non-public case documents, including expert statements and the text of police charges, are available to Hospodářské noviny. Experts have gathered significant amounts of indirect evidence, mainly arguing that the river water contained, in addition to cyanides that killed fish, the same metals as industrial waste water contaminated in Rožnov. In the next paragraph there is another comment: "The joint presence of cyanides and hexavalent chromium indicates the origin of contamination in the Energoaquy treatment plant, because there is no long-term presence of hexavalent chromium in the waste water Deza, and there is also none of its potential sources in Deza," writes scientists from the University of South Bohemia, adding that hexavalent chromium is not present in any other possible sources at the river. That's all I'm gonna quote. In essence, when I sum up the work that the commission did on the commission of inquiry, the crucial deficiency towards DEZA was that it was not sampled. There was a physical check, which stated that there were living organisms, that the water was not contaminated. It's not true that samples haven't been taken. No samples may have been taken by the control authorities, but the report also states that the samples were checked at 8 o'clock in the morning, all the measured values were conditional. Further samples were taken at 13.30 and 15.30 at the next dispatcher's request, and all the values that were measured were sublime. These values were available to Bečva's investigation committee because she requested them, and I sent them there. These readings didn't appear in the final report. There were also Zbyninský and Jasenické potok concentrations. So it's not true that there's no analysis of the waste water quality in Deza. They've been measured, protocols have been passed on to the investigation committee. DEZA had this expert opinion processed by none of the police forensic experts. [[It shows a union of documents.]] It's another company, other forensic experts who state two things. No event that occurred in Deza that day had an impact on pollution, on the crash in the Bečva river, and notes that the only result that goes with purified waste water through the biological sewage treatment plant into the Bečva river is the result of the B1 which has been checked and which has been monitored. So for me, it's quite interesting that none of these facts appeared in the entry. DEZA was quoted about six times in this protocol, with a total of 21 investigated companies, which are not mentioned at all. There's three-hour analysis of the quality of the waste water. There is no indication of the quality of waste water in Energoaqua and 20 other companies. So for me, the reason that maybe the 21st or 20th sample wasn't taken from the tip of the Bečva River is because there were three analyses carried out with time distance. The outputs were provided both to the control authorities and to the investigating authorities and to the examination committee of the Bečva River. And if the biological sewage treatment plant were shocked by the Bečva River, she'd be dead. Anyone who works in the field knows that starting a biological sewage treatment plant after such shock takes several weeks. Couple of weeks! I think that to illustrate how objective the report is, that's enough, because if you were to look for any objective causes, you would have to monitor all the subjects that were connected there. They weren't checked. You'd have to work with concentrations, with technology, with some methodology, with some allowances at their disposal - none of that came up. In the morning it was said: twenty-one companies, basically everything revolves around DEZA, because it is an interesting political goal. Around Energoaqua, which is not proven to be in the best condition, where the results were measured by excess concentration, basically walk on tiptoe. I do not understand - perhaps the situation here is as the Minister suggested. Maybe there's a real culprit defending himself here, but there's a fog forming to withstand this subject until the election. Because otherwise, I would ask all colleagues who have some expertise to explain to me how the only exit and biological sewage treatment plant survives the blow that was there without any change. This is the biggest argument, and I think this speaks for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u80	I thank Mr Pustějovskýějovský. Now, Mrs Balcarová's factual point, will be prepared by my colleague Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform here about something that I did not want to talk about at all, but since my colleague Pustějovskýějovský here spoke about the opinion of scientists from the university at the beginning of his speech, which was published in Hospodářské noviny, I would also like to inform here about another opinion, the scientist, Professor Petřivalský of Palacký University in Olomouc, a biochemist who recently published his opinion, explaining why Energoaqua cannot be the author, and even the fact that the murder substance did not have to be cyanide. Why not Energoaqua? Because based on the backwards calculation, the concentration of cyanide on the source would be so huge that it's almost impossible for it to be from one source. Moreover, the massacre of fish would begin at a maximum of 700 metres along the stream, not nearly four kilometres apart. So it's just that even this is a scientific opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Nacher, who is not present, is failing his application. I have no further application for a debate. I'm asking if there's anyone else reporting from the scene? This is not the case, and in that case, I am ending the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? You're not interested. The rapporteur? He's not interested. We will proceed to the debate in detail, in which I have Mr. Petr Gazdík's application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] Wait a minute. Please calm down, we are in a detailed debate and we will be reading the motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u83	Allow me, on behalf of the committee of inquiry, to introduce you to the motion for a resolution on the final report of the committee of inquiry to the Chamber of Deputies on the ecological disaster on the Bečva river. The motion for a resolution is: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. takes note of the final report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating the environmental disaster on the Bečva River; II. Calls on the Government to proceed with the measures of the Commission of inquiry referred to in the final report.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, in which case I'm ending the debate in detail. And I'm asking if there's any interest after a detailed debate on the final word? [[Gong.]] Not the rapporteur, neither does the Minister. In that case, we will vote. It is the only motion for a resolution tabled by the Commission of inquiry, and I will wait until the number of applications has settled. I'll check you out. I checked everyone out, I'll ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. On the rapporteur's proposal, i.e. on the draft committee of inquiry set up by the Chamber of Deputies, we will vote in vote number 5. This means that the report of the committee of inquiry will be taken into account by the Chamber of Deputies. The number of entries is stable. I've started voting number five, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number five, out of 104 registered for 55, against no one. The report of the commission of inquiry was taken into account by the Chamber of Deputies. We've exhausted the 119th meeting, I'm done with the meeting, and I'm done with today's meeting. Have a good day. And I'm sure some of them will meet here after the election, so have a nice day. [[After a brief moment, Mr Kopřiva came forward.]] Just for the tape screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u85	I am not questioning the vote, but in voting number 5, I am at the junk that I have abstained, and yet I voted in favour, but I am not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-119-01-001-001.u86	Thank you.
