ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-017-015.u1	15. Proposal for the establishment of the number of Members in Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-consular organisations Parliament of the Czech Republic is represented by its permanent delegations in the following intergovernmental organisations: 1. in the Interinstitutional Union; 2. the NATO Parliamentary Assembly; 3. the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; 4. the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; 5. in the Central European Initiative. In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, the Chamber of Deputies is represented by the Committee on European Affairs. The number of members shall be determined by the rules of procedure or by the internal rules of each interinstitutional organisation. Permanent delegations to inter-European organisations shall be composed of members of the two chambers of Parliament. According to Article 7 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of Law No. 300/2017 Coll., on the principles of conduct and contact between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate and on the outside and on the amendment of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, the so-called law of contact, it is true that if the chambers disagree on another procedure, two thirds of the seats in the permanent delegation of the House and one third of the seats in the permanent delegation of the Senate will fall after rounding up. During the last parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies was represented in individual delegations as follows: - 8 Members in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union; - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of 10 Members, of which 5 with the status of member and 5 with the status of alternate; - further in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, of which 4 with the Member's Statute and 1 with an alternate; - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 10 Members, of which 5 with the Statute of the Member and 5 with the Statute of the alternate; - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Central European Initiative of 5 Members, of which 3 with the Member's Statute and 2 with an alternate. The number of members in each permanent delegation to the Chamber of Deputies shall remain unchanged as it corresponds to Section 7 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 law of contact. Only three permanent delegations have changed the requirements for the number of compulsory female representation: - Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union: 8 Members, of which at least 3 women; - Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe: 5 Members, 4 of which are members, of which at least 1 woman, and 1 with an alternate status; - Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe: 10 Members, of which 5 with a member's status, of which at least 2 women, and 5 with an alternate, of which at least 1 woman. [[17.50 hours]] This obligation should therefore be taken into account in the selection of candidates. Am I initiating a general debate and asking who is applying for it? I am not registering any application and I am ending the general debate. Shall we proceed to a detailed debate and ask whether anyone is taking part in a detailed debate? Given that I do not see anyone reporting for a detailed debate, I am ending the debate in detail. I will now read the motion for a resolution which I will then vote on: "The Chamber of Deputies I notes that the Parliament of the Czech Republic is represented by its permanent delegations in the Interinstitutional Union, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the Central European Initiative; II. Notes that the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean will be attended by members of the Committee on European Affairs; III. shall determine the number of Members in each Parliament's permanent delegation as follows: - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union of 8 Members, of which at least 3 women, - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of 10 Members, of which 5 with the Member's Statute and 5 with an alternate status, - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, five Members, of which 4 with a Member's status, of which at least 1 woman, and 1 with an alternate status, - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 10 Members, of which 5 with the status of member, here at least 2 women, and 5 with the status of alternate, at least 1 woman, - in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Central European Initiative of 5 Members, of which 3 with the Statute of a Member and 2 with the Statute of an alternate." I have now read the motion for a resolution which I am going to vote on. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, how was it read? Please raise your hand, press the button. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 38, 183 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 167, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. Opening point number
