ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u1	493. Government information on the vaccination strategy Given that this is government information, there is already experience that the government's representative should be the first to speak. That's what was discussed in the Grémium with the government's mandate. The minister of health is Jan Blatný. I will ask the Minister to take the floor. And I ask, honourable Members, for peace in the hall. If you have an emergency, go to the foyer. Other people take your seats, especially in the vicinity of the speaker's counter. I don't want to name anyone. Thank you all for your attention. Calm down, please. Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, and allow me to introduce you to the results of anti-coronavirus vaccination in the Czech Republic, and before that, he summed up how this vaccination is conceived and intended. We know that at present, by applying for vaccination, one expresses his free will to be vaccinated. The vaccination is not compulsory, is voluntary and is covered by health insurance. The first part of the vaccination took place outside the central booking system, and I will return to this, and at present the central reservation system has been launched, which works with online forms and takes place subsequently: once a person has logged on to the online site, then a questionnaire will then be filled in, he will receive a registration certificate, if this registration cannot be automatically implemented, he is advised to contact a physician, then in the next steps, which I will describe, to set the booking date and to get his own vaccination. A well-defined structure is set up to ensure that this system and the entire vaccination system in general work, which is built mainly on regional vaccination coordinators and on responsible persons in each vaccination site. The so-called distribution vaccination sites, vaccination sites, mobile vaccination teams and, in the future, large-capacity vaccination sites are in place. As far as the central booking system is concerned, then, as I said, these are several consecutive procedures: registration, then prioritization - health professionals, senior home people, and those who take care of them, and seniors over the age of 80 are currently being priorityized. Subsequently, depending on the amount of vaccine available at each vaccination site, the date for vaccination is continuously allocated and then the vaccination is carried out. I would like to point out that although, in principle and in the future, a large part of those who are interested in vaccination will be checked out via the Internet, the system is designed to register and book especially seniors who require knowledge of internet work, family members, social workers, practical doctors and members of line 1221, or some local call centres, which are established in some regions. With regard to the individual stages of vaccination, as the methodological instruction envisages, let me now focus in particular on phase 1A, which is now and at least until the end of February and will take place. The aim is to maintain a functional health system and eliminate its burden, as it is the seniors who are the most common part of the population that gets sick by needing hospitalization. The aim of this is to protect their health and lives and to release or protect the health system. I repeat that they are seniors over 80 years of age, possibly immobile persons, seniors in institutions, which are homes for seniors, hospitals for long-term patients, health professionals and employees of social housing services. And the fact that this phase is actually being filled suggests that those who have been vaccinated so far make up almost 90 percent of all vaccinated. The next stages will follow by methodical instruction, but I will not delay you in the report that summarizes the results. For your information, the plan for the delivery of vaccines to the Czech Republic is that if we count all vaccines that are contravened to the Czech Republic by March 2021, then in January we can inoculate 346 625 people, subsequently in February, because the second dose will be started or administered, it will be 271 600 people and in March thereafter 662 400 people. Together it is about 1.3 million people, if both Pfizer and Moderna and AstraZeneca are available. If AstraZeneca is not available at this time, the number should be reduced by 600,000. Currently, the most frequently distributed vaccine is from Pfizer/BioNTech. The Ministry of Health sets maximum doses for individual regions and imports of this vaccine into thirty-one distribution vaccination site, which is contracted with the supplying company. I draw attention to the fact that, according to the contract that the European Union and therefore the Czech Republic have with a distributor, it is necessary to determine about two months in advance where these vaccines are to be directed and small changes can be made within a maximum of two weeks before delivery. Any major change means that the Czech Republic would be moved further throughout the system and the vaccine would reach us later. That's why the effort to make as little as possible or no changes to the distribution list. In the past, and it is currently being consulted and discussed, the key to how many vaccines are delivered to individual centres, different from what they are now. The original key, which had to be set in December, when we had yet no one knew exactly how many places would be in the regions, how many of these regions would be able to establish, what the capacity of these places would be, was the estimated capacity of each vaccination site, and it was based on the idea that only thirty-one vaccination sites would be vaccinated with this vaccine. However, the regions began to divide deliveries also within the regions into additional vaccination sites and, in view of this, and also the increasing number of deliveries from the third week in January reflects the distribution of benefits per region the ratio of the endangered population to 65 years old and older and the total population in that region. This implies that some small regions, which have not defined more vaccination sites in the past, may seem disadvantaged from today's point of view. A typical example is the Karlovy Vary Region, which reported only one vaccination site, the capacity was assumed to be low. The vaccination is now underway in this region, so it increases many times from the original delivery of one salary. So I'm pointing out that deliveries are somehow evolving and taking into account the ability of the supplier and the ability to redistribute. [[15.20 hours]] In the future, too, we are trying to reflect the ratio of the endangered population as much as possible, as well as the number of already vaccinated and registered candidates. Moderns and other vaccines that we believe will soon be available, then are not delivered directly by the manufacturer, but will be supplied by distributors. A distributor will be available or available for each vaccine to deliver and distribute the vaccines. There is currently a tender for Moderna, I do not have the result now, but I have raised a question about health insurance companies who is the distributor. Allow me now a summary of how the vaccination has been carried out so far. It's about data exports for last night, in selected cases for eleven o'clock of today. These data are vaccinated, which are entered into the ISIN model - vaccination, in real time according to the possibility of vaccination centers. The Government's resolution requested that the vaccine establishment enter into this system no later than the day the vaccination took place. As of eleven o'clock today, 129 829 doses were reported, i.e. about 1.3 percent of the population, which places the Czech Republic roughly in the middle of the European ranking. Thus, the Czech Republic is not the one to inoculate the most in Europe, but it is in no way the one to inoculate little or least. The vaccination takes place on average as in most other countries. 62 428 these submissions were reported in directly controlled facilities of the Ministry of the Interior, the rest, about half, was then reported in other facilities controlled by the region. 10 to 11 000 vaccinated on working days are reported daily. Since I was 17. 1. those receiving the second dose are also starting to come into contact. We already see two types of vaccines in the data, which means both Pfizer vaccine and Moderna vaccine. Specifically, the first, most frequently available vaccine is 123,000 reported vaccinations, about 1,600 reported vaccinations in Moderna. First, vaccination started in Prague and South Moravian Region, and therefore these two regions already have persons who have a second dose, namely 1,450 in the capital and 511 in the South Moravian Region. Senior groups were vaccinated from the first doses delivered, i.e. before the reservation system was launched, and to 18. 1. because, after all, that's what we're interested in, we need to protect the elderly population, so to 18. 1. We record the vaccinations reported in almost 15 000 people aged 65 to 80 years and in about 17 000 people over the age of 80. Older age categories are also significantly represented among health care professionals and are also reserved for vaccination - that is to say, they are already on a deadline when they will receive the vaccine - more than 58,000 seniors over 80 years of age, i.e. approx. 15 percent of this population, and registration, means a clear signal - yes, I want to vaccinate - has already made 160,000 seniors, i.e. about 40 percent of the population over 80 years of age. Please, let's listen carefully when we criticize the course of the vaccination, because during the first week 40 percent of all seniors over the age of 80 have been registered and 15 percent have been scheduled. Vaccines in the vast majority of applications follow specified priority groups. Of course, it can - I am sorry, I have already had to draw personal consequences from this in my organizations, but it is very little frequent according to the information we have - that there would be abuse. On the contrary. Vaccines in the vast majority of applications follow specified priority groups. Health workers are vaccinated - 64 per cent of all vaccinated, social services workers and clients - 16 per cent of all vaccinated and seniors of all previously vaccinated at 9 per cent. The remaining about 11 percent of middle to very young people - about 10,000 people under 29 - are called medics, students or volunteers working at the sampling points and elsewhere in health care and caring for covid patients. If you look at the graphics, I'll at least show you a picture like that. What's red and pink are people in the health sector, the rest are people outside the health sector. It is clear that women are dominant in this population. I'll show you the picture again. What's pink is women, what's blue is men. The reason is twofold. For one thing, we already know from previous surveys that the interest in the female population is greater than that of men, but in particular it is due to the fact that health care is significantly feminised, and therefore a large part of the health care workers who were vaccinated were logically women. As far as self-insurance of registration and reservation is concerned, then I draw attention to the difference between these two terms. These are actually two independent queues, if you like. Registration is a list of candidates for vaccination, and a reservation is a list of those who are assigned a vaccination term. When registering the candidate subsequently after the registration takes place, the candidates receive the so-called PIN 2 and here this is the ticket to their own reservation. To cultivate this approach and to simplify it so that it is as comfortable as possible for the elderly, it is gradually working, it is getting even better and you will be informed. As far as the procedure for managing access to vaccination is concerned, this is as I said at the beginning, when the client subsequently receives the PIN 2 after registration and the reservation system is made available to him. I will not talk about this in detail now, but these negotiations are taking place especially with regional coordinators, with the management of individual vaccination sites and regularly with the generals, for the last time today. I think it's like an introduction, I believe, enough to get to know this information. And I would also like to point out that regular information on how many regions are vaccinated, what their structure is by age and other parameters, is given daily by regional coordinators. And we have also agreed that this information will be received from this day forward by the captains so that they can have it at their disposal. Once the latest modifications in the software that ensure the registration of vaccinations are completed, it will be working on accessing this data as well as on-line permanent forms. [[15.30 hours]] And I warn you, I'm often asked why it isn't anymore. Very simple. I firmly believe that the right number is more important than a quick number. So the release of this data is everyone's interest and will be available at that time, and I believe it will be soon, as soon as all vaccination sites are able to show in real time what is required of them, so that this information is relevant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u3	Thank you. I would like to ask the appellant of this point, Mr Stanjura, to take the floor. I ask whether he would agree, if necessary, to be a rapporteur, perhaps already promised by Mr Čižinský, who will be the first to speak in a proper debate, that he would take up the matter. [[Messenger. Let him do it.]] So Mr. Čižinský will do the honors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u4	On the microphone: I am happy to leave the rapporteur's function to Mr Čižinský. For the record, I formally suggested it, but I just remind you that I proposed it on behalf of ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. First, I would like to thank the Minister if the other Members let him listen to the speakers. It's not his fault. Well, it looks good that the Minister will have time to listen. Thank you for the numbers. I think our common interest is to get the vaccine as quickly as possible to as many people as possible. I would like to appreciate the priorities and the division of the candidates for vaccination into the groups that exist. I think our anticovid team accepted him and praised him. That's not the problem. However, I shall begin with what the Minister has finished. Unlike him, I think that the fact that regional coordinators are getting it, and from now on, finally, even the captains, is just not enough. Disinformation arises, there is a sense of injustice that a region has been forgotten or some district within the region has been forgotten, and the only way to combat these feelings is to publish numbers and facts. And I would like to offer the Minister the structure of those data which I think is interesting to the public and which could increase confidence in the vaccination strategy and thus increase the number of candidates who want to inoculate themselves. At this point, when I sum up and repeat what the Minister said, in the first phase, we have four key groups to be vaccinated first. Some of them I know the numbers, some of them I don't, so I'd ask him if he knew the numbers. The first group are paramedics. From publicly available sources, I have information that the total number of health professionals, regardless of the particular profession, is roughly 270 000. The second group, which I have information from public sources, is a group of 80+ seniors. There's about 400,000 of them. Then we have a group, in the first place they are still workers in quotes in social services. I don't know exactly how many there are here. And then there's another group, and these are the clients of these facilities that the minister was talking about. I don't know how many there are either. But I think the public should know the total number of potentially vaccinated in the first phase, that is, in these four groups, and then they should get information on how much in a particular group has already been vaccinated. To date, for example, how many paramedics have been vaccinated, how many clients have been vaccinated, how many social services workers have been vaccinated, and how many 80+ seniors who have used the reservation system have been vaccinated to date. In my opinion, this detailed information can greatly increase people's confidence and interest in vaccination. Unfortunately, we all saw the crowded waiting rooms where the head was on the head. Many, I think, almost all of us, have heard the story of a senior who went somewhere to get vaccinated to find out that there is no vaccine for her. These are precisely cases that reduce public confidence and should be avoided. The Minister said he wouldn't give details of the reservation. Well, Minister, I graduated. Personally. And guess how long - a professional programmer or a former programmer, but just a programmer - I booked one senior 80+, how much time it took me. One hundred and fifty minutes! I read 12 times: oops, something went wrong, and I started again. When I finally managed to register it and tried to get a reservation date, it offered me a lot of dates at the hospital I chose, but I couldn't sign up for either. So I tried a specific day at 8:00, 8:15, 8:30, 8:45, 9:00, so I can continue until 5:00. It always started to work to then write the system: unfortunately, this term is no longer available, and yet it offered it to me. So it's a real disaster. I don't know how anyone can praise it, and as a programmer, I'm telling you, it's a trivial task. It is! Mr. Rector or former Rector says it's complicated. It doesn't count. It's basically a trivial task, and if you work out the database environment and the database you're supposed to be fulfilling, it's a trivial task, and whoever says you're not, isn't telling the truth. There are far more complex processes than this. But I don't want to argue about that. We've been through this since last Friday. What happened? The government has aroused great expectations, but it has not been able to meet them. The minister said it was so cunning that 90 percent of the vaccinations were given to clients or those who were next. But that's not exactly good information. Ten percent of the vaccinations were given to those who weren't next. And that's not a small number. Ten percent. You said, Minister, that 90 percent were given to those of the selected four groups. When we say today how many registered seniors we have and how many reservations he has, it is also crucial that we get information about when they will be vaccinated. When they will be vaccinated for the first time and when they will be vaccinated for the second time, because it is very important whether they have deadlines for the end of January, the beginning of February, the end of February or the end of March. I'd like a guarantee from the government that what happens doesn't happen to those who have the bad luck of coming, are booked, don't get the vaccine, and come back. I think that the vast majority of those who live at home are helping their family members help them with registration, with a reservation, and are ready to take them to the vaccination site, but they have to be sure they get the vaccine. Or, in the worst case, they must get information in time, I note a word in time, they must be informed in time that for many reasons or for a particular reason it is not possible to do what they have booked that day and immediately the system must offer the nearest possible replacement term. So, Minister, I think to calm the information to the public, we should say to each other, until you assume that interested parties, for example, from the 80+ group... But then it's complicated, the debate - the minister doesn't listen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u5	I understand, Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to ask--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u6	I apologize, colleague, I really ask questions to the Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u7	I'll ask the sněmovna for peace. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. If you are discussing a subject other than the government's information on the vaccination strategy requested by the House, please transfer the discussion to the front room so that everyone to whom the word has been given can be heard and, secondly, given due attention. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u8	Thank you. I was not angry with the Minister, but with those who disturb him. Thank you for not doing so anymore. So, Minister, I would like to ask specific questions that you should answer mostly to the public, not to us in this hall. First, by when will the 80+ candidates who made the registration and reservation be vaccinated? For example after weeks or ten days: by the end of January so much, by 10 February so much, by 20 February so much, by the end of February so much. When is this gonna end? And now I'm talking about the first dose, but also the second dose, because, as the Minister said, given the start of vaccination these days, of course, the second dose is already being vaccinated. I would like to ask whether the Ministry is monitoring the number of those who have rejected it from the priority groups, or whether the system will be open to those of the priority groups forever and at any time, as if they can skip over when it comes to other groups. [[vaccination]] I don't blame anyone, I'm a fan of a free decision, but if we have 270 000 paramedics and half of them, for example, decide. 135,000 or two-thirds, what about the others if they change their minds? They're still gonna be priority, aren't they? I don't have an answer. I don't have the right opinion. I think it should be clear. Same thing for group 80+. I assume the effect of the snowball that even those who hesitate will realize that their acquaintances, relatives already have the injection, have graduated from it, so that the number of interested people who may be hesitant today will increase. If it's open forever to the priority group, or if it's by the end of April, by the end of May, as the government thinks. [[15.40 hours]] Secondly, I want to ask if you are really prepared with the data mentioned in the structure, in those four priority groups, to publish regularly - how many were vaccinated for the first time, how many were given for the second time. I think that's a good thing, and so is the division of regions, because we have regional politicians among us, and I'm debating it with our captains. Some really feel that their reactions are forgotten, and only those data can point out that this is not the case, as the Minister said a moment ago. Then I would like us to seriously consider the deadline for February 1st for the others. Now I don't want to tell the government - or criticize the government - that after the experience we have, with the expected number of vaccines - and if you've listened well to the Minister, in the moment that AstraZenec isn't registered, the number is actually half of the numbers he said. Out of a million three hundred it jumps in the first three months to 600,000, which is de facto just for groups that are in the first phase - which is good that they are the first. So if you really don't consider that on February 1st, a million people will sit on the computer at eight o'clock... Suppose it doesn't fall, the system will be enough capacity. But are we able to offer real terms to these interested people, real terms, when can they be booked? I'm afraid not. And here I think it's better to tell the truth, or to tell the others - or to divide them into a few groups and say, "You're not going to order on February 1st, but maybe February 20th or 28th, the moment we get the vaccination of those who are the priority." I think everyone else understands that the four groups I was talking about must take precedence and that it is right that they have priority. I must also appreciate the change in the Minister's opinion, which was against the major vaccination centres when we discussed this in December. He may have changed his mind even under the weight of the fact that the chieftains and the mayors have shown that such a project makes sense. And when someone changes their mind and accepts a better solution, I think it needs to be appreciated and not returned to the fact that sometime a few weeks ago someone else had an opinion. Because let's try to remember the debate about extending the emergency situation on December 22nd. I got off here, I spoke on behalf of our MP, and I said we're having a vaccination debate in the wrong direction. There were passionate debates here for tens of minutes, perhaps hours about whether vaccination should be mandatory or voluntary, while no one proposed mandatory. And I have already said on 22 December on behalf of the civil democrats and our colleagues in our coalition that the problem will be the opposite. Or that it threatens to be the opposite problem: those who want to get inoculated will not have a chance to get inoculated at the time that they think would be best for them. And unfortunately, we are in this state and we have to do everything together to satisfy those interested in the first groups as soon as possible, and then the other groups can join. Why we suggested the point, why we're happy to discuss it today: because I think it's problem number one, which is our public today. We did not propose this point to criticize the government here - of course, if we know that the government is doing something wrong, we will comment on it or plan it - but mainly to think about how to improve it together. My colleagues, who have worked on our AntiCovid team for a long time, will certainly complement me, but we offer a helping hand with data structure, for example, how to increase public confidence in vaccination, how to increase the total number of people who are interested in vaccination. Surely none of us can leave calm when we read from public sources that the problem is, for example, with staff in homes and nursing homes, that the interest of staff there is lower than we expected from vaccination. And we have to try together to convince them to do it to get vaccinated. I think it's a task for us who believe it's a way to return to normal society. [[given]] Yes, there are among us who don't believe it. [[Such]] Okay, I respect that. I belong to those who believe that vaccination, vaccination strategy is the way to return to normal life, and therefore for us who believe it, we offer cooperation and the opportunity to increase confidence so that we can really involve our regions, big cities and all the cities that will be ready to help implement the strategy, because this is a joint task. This is not a political issue, it is not a political dispute. We're in charge of taxes, benefits, I don't know what. But in this case, at least we, who believe that this is the way to normal, should work together and think about how to do the best we can, as I said at the beginning, get the vaccine as quickly as possible to the number of people who want the vaccine. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for allowing this point to be discussed first. I look forward to the debate. And I believe that in a more detailed debate with the Minister, whether in plenary or outside plenary, we will look for ways to make the vaccination strategy as successful as possible. By the way, our colleagues in the European Parliament are having a similar debate today. There they look at it from a European perspective, that is, what vaccines the European Commission ordered, in what proportion, from which manufacturers etc. I think it would be a good idea for us to look into the conclusions of the European Parliament's discussion, too, because that is where the overall number of vaccines for each country is decided at that level. And we need to give everything we can at national level so that what has come to us gets to our citizens as quickly as possible and that no one feels that it has been forgotten that some other region is preferred, and that everyone has a legitimate feeling that everyone who is interested has the same chance of getting to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u9	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. And before we go any further, I must tell my colleague Vondrák that the debate has not yet been opened, or a factual point is not possible. And so we will now proceed to the debate that I am initiating. The first registered is Mrs Olga Richterová, who is responsible for the Pirates Club with priority rights to speak for their parliamentary club. Vice-President Okamura will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u10	Thank you for the floor. On this subject, I will briefly summarize: as the Pirates, we have tried to be very constructive. Since 6 December we have tried to communicate specific comments in preparation for vaccination, on the whole strategy. It is clear that this is a major logistical operation. It's clear that there hasn't been a specific experience in this country. But at the same time, it is also clear over the sun that the lands that have been preparing since the summer have made it. Neighbor countries were building, preparing to have everything ready, ready at the beginning of December, when the first vaccine approval was expected. And that is the first thing the Minister says that in December no one knew the capacity of the regions, and that is the trouble. If we started prepping in the summer, it could be estimated. The size of the groups, like we said, is absolutely crucial. The size of groups of seniors, paramedics, etc., can be calculated at the edge and it is possible to know what region to prepare for. And this preparation just started late. Unfortunately, the summer was devoted to building a media image rather than preparing it. Now, I'm going to read two questions that come from people as an example of the confusion in the public. And that's, "Olga, where would I find an overview of how many vaccines have been given to the region?" Of course, people think it's commonly available. They're just wondering, they want to click on how many vaccines they've already gotten. And they're completely shocked when I say it's nowhere public, you won't find it. There is nothing easier than publishing data, subject to the fact that even the evening or the next day may be further specified. In electronic form of publication it is very easy to give floating warnings overlapping that number and saying: Attention, it can still be specified. The second kind of question I have is: "So I am registered, I could have had the place where I want to get vaccinated, I clicked on Rakovník, and when I want to sign up, then suddenly Rakovník disappeared completely from the offer." These are specific questions about practical user problems. And that's something we've already predicted, we've already predicted in the comments that we've put together in three days to call on the government to respond to the proposed strategy in January, at the beginning. And we wrote that user interface and user problems are not premeditated. [[15.50 hours]] We were showing concrete proposals that could be done precisely for user-friendlyness, and we were wondering how the system technical support would also be handled. We were also interested - and I quote this - that the strategy and the general plan were counting on a certain number of vaccines. What if there's a delay? What if there's no realization? How does the system cope with this strategy? That's something to be expected in preparation. So now people are in a situation where they don't get answers, they don't know what to do. Data available, as it progresses, are not, there is no transparency, people's confidence that the situation is improving continuously cannot rise. And although I would like to thank the Minister for meeting with us today, with the Pirates and the STAN movement, and we had a substantive debate about what the health situation is today - not good, we all know - so we did not agree completely on the three things that would help. I'd really like it to move on. The disagreement was that the data could be released immediately. That's what Director Dušek, Director of the ÚZIS, said he could do it. It just needs the government's permission. I think it takes the Prime Minister's kind word to sit here. And the second thing is that there's a clear positive motivation in addition to vaccination. They're compensation, they're corporate support, so they can afford to test antigen tests every week. And then, it's not possible to permanently, many and many more months, have an emergency. It would be appropriate to choose an epidemic, pandemic-adapted state of health, not a war, but a health problem. That's where I believe we'll move forward, that we'll continue to discuss it. With that data, I don't understand why they're just not publicly available to everyone. How many vaccines have the region received, how many people have been vaccinated, ideally broken down into priority categories, broken down into ages. The last thing I want to stress. This preparation could not only have been much earlier and could have been more precise if the government had been willing to listen to comments from a pirate expert team. Since the beginning of December, we have also reminded us that, in addition to the technical solution to the whole thing, it will be necessary to train hospitals, to have simple instructions and to take into account that it works as quickly as possible in practice. And that's the last thing I'd like to ask, probably the Prime Minister. Is it really that the software assignment, the programming of the registration software, came up on December 22nd, up to two days before Christmas Day? I am particularly interested in the answer to this question because it will show the most if there is a mistake on the part of the Supreme Government, or if it happens to be somewhere else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u11	Thank you, Mrs Olza Richterová. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will now speak with priority, and President Jurečka will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a point here called Information of the Government on the course of vaccination. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister of Health Jan Blatný introduced last week's registration system and vaccination strategy. This material comes both in a time slip and is also dependent on the availability of vaccines for defined population groups and with a view to vaccination of at least 70 percent of the total population. According to the first phase, it is to be carried out in accordance with the established priorityization of the most risk groups, i.e. the group of seniors 80+, seniors in social services establishments and caregivers, clients in homes for disabled persons and relief services, and health professionals who provide care to patients with covid. The scheme is complicated and hard to understand for ordinary pensioners without Internet knowledge. In addition, the system collapsed at 8 hours after 90 minutes after commissioning on 15 January. Citizens in the risk groups who want vaccination should be vaccinated quickly, safely and be able to choose. We insist on volunteering, I want to stress that. The SPD movement has been promoting volunteering here from the outset and rejecting discrimination against people who do not want to be vaccinated. However, if vaccines are scarce because of the European Union and we do not know how many species we will have in the coming months, the logistics and methodology of the government's water vaccination strategy is. At the same time, enough vaccination material is needed - I mean needles, syringes - and, in particular, the capacity to carry out vaccinations. However, they are not in all regions and state health establishments. The SPD proposes that practical doctors in particular play a key role - they know their patients, they have the conditions for vaccination, not the government to create some alternative parallel registration methods, when data about their insured persons, for example, have health insurance companies. I wanted to point out for us that the position of the SPD movement is that vaccination must be voluntary. Furthermore, we insist that there should be no discrimination against citizens who do not want to be vaccinated. And those citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily, so the government should allow them to do so quickly, safely, so that they can choose. Which isn't fulfilled. I would also like to mention the situation surrounding support, support for companies, support for businessmen and their employees. In our opinion, the government must vote for simple and rapid methods of supporting businessmen and entrepreneurs affected by government measures, as unemployment is rising. But that's what we expected half, three quarters of a year ago - the government didn't prepare and the companies are failing. Support for businessmen, firms and employees should be such support that, if they support companies, their employees will support this as a result. The aid should be fixed without unnecessary bureaucracy and using the data available to the State. It is true that one who helps quickly helps twice. For example, aid may be granted by a percentage, such as between 60 and 70 per cent of the difference in the amount of sales declared in the tax return for the years 2019 and 2020. This model is applied in developed Western countries. This is a quick and easy to control method that will rightly favour entrepreneurs who report and tax their income. This is a method that covers fixed costs, not profits, and it is a method that is clear, transparent and can also be applied according to the field of activity, because somewhere profitability is greater or somewhere costs are greater, profitability is greater. But the numbers are with the IRS, all of them at my disposal. So even this complicated system of support is also one of the big problems, why the final support does not interfere adequately with all the necessary groups of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u13	I thank Vice-President Okamur for his performance. Now with priority rights, President Jurečka, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself and then the Minister of Health. So far, we're in priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u14	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mr President, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues. I would like to begin by saying that I appreciate the constructive agreement on today's inclusion of this point in this meeting. I would also like to appreciate the efforts of Minister Blatný to communicate with us as representatives of the opposition parties. So I'm looking forward to meeting you tomorrow. I also appreciate the fact that the communication effort is being conducted on his part, because in the last ten months we have often asked for the opportunity to meet more regularly, more often, such as the Prime Minister. And unfortunately, we haven't always been able to do that. [[16.00 hours]] So I can only afford a few things I want to offer constructively. A little has already been mentioned here by my previous speakers, but I would like to ask - the Minister spoke about this in part, that the registration system will be improved. I would very much appreciate it to be tested by users not only by standard users or by standard people who develop similar applications but, above all, to be tested by older people, seniors, so that the functionality and the individual steps are evaluated by them and possibly alerted to weak spots, because I think that the website, as I had the opportunity to try it out, is not optimally set especially for the older generation. Then, of course, we ask very much, and we have already pointed this out during this weekend, fine-tuned it, tightened up the possibility of registration even for people who represent national minorities who live with us on a permanent, long-term basis, and those problems with a different form of birth number, where, for example, fellow citizens of Polish nationality did not have the opportunity to register. I have information, perhaps from yesterday, that it has not yet been made possible. Then I would generally ask whether this could not be done in a simplified manner so as to consider using data from the health register of insurance companies. And that system could automatically reach out to people, or, respectively, at the moment a person puts his contact information in, so he could get a text, a call, or maybe even a mail address. The involvement of practitioners was mentioned here. Definitely from experience and communication with the representatives of the practitioners themselves, I very much intercede for this form. And at the same time involve local politicians, mayors. We have the most in the Czech Republic for KDU-ČSL. I have to say, they're people who have the trust of these people and of those older people. At the same time, they are people who can work in GDPR personal data protection mode. So I would argue that even with them, for example, through communication through the Ministry of the Interior, and that the whole effort is to ensure that none of the older people here who can't work with the Internet, with modern technology, have anyone close to them who does the registration for them, don't let anyone stay off the side, and so on. Then, and this is my request, above all, to the Prime Minister, that the government - I have seen some promise, but if the government could face the support of funding the entire vaccination or vaccination strategy in the field, because it is not easy for many regions of the financial situation today. I speak here as a representative of the Olomouc Region, a region that is the most indebted in the country. All these costs some of these regions have to take from further and further loans, further debt. Please, if the government could face it here. And just as you were in Brno at the Výstaviště to the vaccination center, which made the city of Brno and the South Moravian Region from its sources, so that we would also build these things around the Czech Republic with the financial support of the government. This means that the government should also play the role of financial support, coordination and maximum support. That's a few moments. I'm also very sorry, Minister, for the data to be published. When I looked at the current available data at least, I have to say that I see a proportion of the distribution of vaccines into individual regions, and I would like these things to be proportional to the regions by population. Of course, there may be a deviation from medical personnel or groups at risk. But from the data I had the opportunity to examine yesterday, there were big differences between some regions, so I would like it not to be so that then people feel and turn to us that they feel that cities, inhabitants of Prague, Brno and some major centers are preferred here, but that even in the regions they are remembered. So these are some specific things. Finally, even though we are talking about vaccination here, please consider and try to change some of the things that concern the form of compensation, the form of compensation, because for many people today it is a huge dilemma to decide whether to be sick, stay home in quarantine, lose 40 percent of your income. And even many employers today, unfortunately, are putting pressure on people to go to work so that they don't scare anyone away and even employers don't have to have the costs of having to pay sick leave. And this is one of the phenomena why, unfortunately, the covid disease is spreading at such a rate, especially through contacts at work. After all, we also see it in the hygiene report from the point of view of tracing. If I see regions where people are reporting about two contacts today in the process of locating, then we need to make it clear that this is not objective information that these people are providing, and we need to ask ourselves why these people are not providing objective information. Because they're very worried about how they're gonna provide for themselves, how they're gonna feed themselves, their families. So that's one of the big things that has to do with it. And I think that the government should think about it and change some of the rules on how we deal with the fight against the spread of covid and in terms of compensation, corporate support, support for people who have to remain in quarantine at home. I very much intercede for that, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u15	I thank Mr Jurečka. Before I give the floor to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, apologizes to the end of today's meeting day, Mrs Jana Černochová, from the whole week of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting for health reasons, also for health reasons Mr Kolovratník Kolorodivík apologizes for the whole week. Mr Lubomír Volný Liberomír Liberomír Liberomír Liberomír Liberomír Liberomír Liberomír Liberír Liberír Liberír Nevludová Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberie Liberí Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberír Liberík Liberík Liberík Liberík Now, then, President Pekarová, Adamová. The Minister of Health, Mr Blatný, will be ready. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable representatives of the government. Have a good day, everyone. I would like to begin by thanking you for the inclusion of this point today, for having the opportunity to discuss the vaccination strategy and all the problems that accompany it, and for seeing them - and I very much hope that you see them - that we are really trying to improve the situation. Because if anything can stop these unpleasant surface measures, economically extremely demanding and devastating sectors of our economy and few businesses, businesses, it is precisely that a large part of society will be inoculated. We all know that at least one billion a day cost us a large-scale lockdown, a measure that has shut down a wide range of services, and that is indeed an expansive sum. Over the past year, we've been down every day, we've had a debt higher by more than one billion crowns every day. For every day of last year. And this year, we're not gonna get any better. On the contrary. That's why it needs to be handled well. And that's why, as a TOP 09, we called for the preparation of this whole system, together with the AntiCovid team, last year. I remember very well when we were here from the counter, and then Mr. Blatný was not yet Minister, they already spoke on 9 September 2020 about the government's need to wake up and one of the essential things to start dealing with is the preparation for when we have the vaccine here. I also remember very well the words that Prime Minister Babiš said even in December: that until we have a drop of vaccine here, he does not understand what we want to do. But here you can see exactly the consequences of what we've witnessed in the last few days, the fact that you've just neglected to prepare. Everything related to registration should have been prepared long ago. The registration system should have been properly tested so that it could not only handle the people's load, but to be as user-friendly as possible. It starts with the kind of triviality that people are supposed to report to. It starts with things like whether you need two pins to send you a text or not. It's a whole bunch of little things. We know that people in the 80+ age category don't normally use the Internet. If I have the right information, it's only a third of the people in the 75+ group. Yes, their children, their grandchildren can help them with that, and so they do. But not all, not all have such relatives, not all have their loved ones at all, who can help them with that. They need to be remembered, too. In the beginning, practical doctors, insurance companies, and municipalities, of course, could be involved. And many do so. I want to thank them. When something wasn't working, we noticed last spring: the state didn't have enough protective equipment, people sat down to sewing machines and started sewing drapes. When logistics didn't work a whole bunch of necessary things, including disinfectants, the mayors took care of it. And now they're doing it again, but they're doing it for a living. They do it for those who neglected it, for those who should have been ready long ago, where it was supposed to work, and it was supposed to go smoothly, because time was enough. You can't really make excuses for that. [[16.10 hours]] So we could forgive ourselves for all of this, and I want to ask all the ministers and Prime Minister very hard not to create virtual reality and that those things that are not working are able and willing to admit, too, and not just to look at the media with their statements that what we are complaining about in opposition, what people complaining about journalists are complaining about. It's all running, it's all working. Please, this is the way to hell. Another thing I want to remind you about, and it also concerns vaccination very closely, is that we adopted a resolution here in the House in September 2020 by which we entrusted the government, in particular the Ministry of Health, to address the misinformations that are on vaccinations, but also on covid, in public space. These misinformations make us more plentiful than covid. And this is also one of the reasons why we're going to handle the situation far worse than it would have been. The fact that there was already misinformation against vaccination against all other diseases, because covid didn't even exist or wasn't here at that level, we all know that long ago. And that's the danger that we need to work with, we also know that. The research that shows people's willingness to inoculate is terrifying, but it's neglecting communication and letting all these disinformation sites, hoaxes, and other things expand. Information campaign - we have been waiting for it again for many months. The one that's being led so far, I consider to be just a teaser or something like that, let's say, a premonition that you're going to be serious about this. But why isn't it long ago? Why it is no longer running, why the capacity of people in civil society, who offered themselves, who wanted to do it free of charge, as they offered themselves at the very beginning of the covid crisis, for example, with the fact that they created an information link, as did this sector, as well as in the creation of a smart quarantine, tools that the government does not know how to use. But let us remember that, again, it was the private sector, or civil society, that came up with it and that even in this case has the desire to help. And again, I offer to the Minister and the Government in general that we are willing to help in this, too. After all, that is why we have accepted the resolution you are not carrying out here. Another important thing related to the vaccination strategy and to the smooth course of vaccination is transparency. The cases we're witnessing here, the vaccinations of officials, husbands, relatives, wives, I don't know what we've seen in the media, they've aroused a tremendous distrust of people and, of course, quite rightly great anger. If you were willing to use the data we have been asking for you for a long time, we have been calling for you to do this again for weeks, to publish information on the number of vaccines, of course anonymously, but with data that clearly points out whether they are really people from the priority groups, as indicated in the strategy, it would be easier to avoid these things here, and people's confidence could be better restored. [[provide]] I do not see the reason why we should only receive this data once a week on the pages that are intended to do this, or on the tab on the covid pages that the Ministry has, or here and there from various press releases, press releases, from the media outputs of the Prime Minister and the Minister. Then the data's like it's in the air, and somebody doesn't even know it anymore. We have received information from the Ministry's available data on Wednesday, January 13 that there were about 71,000 people vaccinated, but since then we have heard many other data, even here today, and I think that if you publish this information every day, nothing will happen to you, on the contrary, for the benefit of the matter. We therefore ask again and appeal for this information to be provided on a regular basis in a transparent manner. I don't want us to get into a situation here that many will be under pressure to inoculate just to improve those numbers, no way, but I want us to know how many people already have one dose, who have two shots vaccinated and how many vaccines are available here. This is further information that should be regularly updated and published. Similarly, it should be assured here that other groups of residents, which, according to the strategy, were originally to be able to register from 1 February, will actually have that possibility. In the last few days, and it's been the best confession that this register doesn't really work, unlike the liking lies, that everything is running as it should be, the Prime Minister said he'd be able to handle this. But information was no longer given when it would be launched for the rest of the population. I want us all to have this information, because I believe that it is a certain hope that society also holds over the water, because we all realize that despair and nervousness are rising, and very sad stories are already crawling with society. I want to thank all the regions, but also the municipalities, which have joined and which are also proactively helping to make this strategy better implemented. Logistics isn't easy, I realize that this is a great task that faces all the forces of the state, including the government. But there is a need for information to flow well and for those involved to actually be able to carry out the activity. Thanks not only to the regions - the most often mentioned is Jihočeský, but also to the village, for example Prague 3 with Mayor Mr.Ptáček was already very active on this level and without the need for registration, which is in the national system, allowed his citizens 80+ to participate. The citizens of Prague 2 also gained this opportunity thanks to their town hall. Of course, many others, especially the smaller municipalities, know their residents very well, are able to inoculate them and provide vaccinations through practitioners, vaccination centres so that they do not have to drag themselves to often distant hospitals at this time, allowing a whole range of services related to this. They owe them a lot of thanks, and they're pulling a thorn out of your heels, too, to the government. I want the system to be more welcoming. I don't get it. I don't understand how it was triggered with the fact that people who didn't have a chance to get a vaccination in it weren't directly contacted after the registration. You complete this functionality as you march. You've had enough time to make the system work this way from the very beginning. I think it is not easy for people 80+ to report to the system every day and hope that they will be more successful this time, that they will find the deadline and that they will be able to get vaccinated, which many are very excited about, because they might finally want to hug again with their grandchildren, because they want to live more normally again - so they did not allow them. I think these things are just a reprehensible amateurism you're showing off. The fact that we do not know how to register for everyone else again - again - amateurism from your side. I strongly hope that we will learn more about how this is going to go, and that you will finally be able to say yes, we are making mistakes, we are learning from them, and in this way, we are correcting them. And that you will also be able to say, "Thank you, mayors and captains, for your assistance in this matter." Thank you, doctors, nurses and everyone else. I want to express this thanks from this place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u17	That was Mrs Pekarová Adamová. But now I want to raise two factual points before I give the floor to Minister Blatný: Mr Vondrák and colleague Volný with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I was about to respond to Mr. Stanjura. I didn't succeed because I couldn't, so I'm gonna respond to what I heard. Please, the system is not complicated at first sight, unfortunately it is complicated from the point of view of its use, because the group of users is very diverse, unfortunately they are 80+, who are of course the weakest in this group. But I would say that I would very much like to turn against the claim that this is pure amateurism. As a professor of computer science, I would like to make an objective assessment of the situation. In the beginning it was undoubtedly a great strain, the system of course had problems, and that was to be expected, we were all counting on it. Yes, there should have been more time in terms of testing, it wasn't, in a way it's objectively given. [[16.20 hours]] But what do I think? It's important how the system changes over time. And it changes that what you're saying is that the senior in question will have to report again and again, that's not true. Since the 22nd, the system has started to work, when the senior gets a pin 2 challenge to apply to a specific site that will be exposed by the vaccine. I'd like to say that the problem wasn't on the side of the system, but the way it always is, it's always between a keyboard and a chair. Just a lot of people and users put in it data that wasn't confirmed in terms of vaccines, and in that case the whole thing got complicated. Please, let's be objective about this and try to focus on looking for mistakes, debug them, and fix the mistakes. That's the goal that we're working hard on right now, and I think that's what's going on. So please, let's not talk about amateurism, because I think the team that's preparing this is very professional. I'm not saying things can't be done differently, but I think it's unfair to tell them it's amateurism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u19	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now Mr Jan Volný's factual remark, David Kasal and Markéta Pekarová Adamová, with factual remarks, will wait. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on my fellow speaker. I also wanted the word amateurism and inability to open the government here and mention which fell here about eight or ten times from the mouth of a colleague of the TOP 09. It's really outrageous. Where does a colleague get the courage to talk about it like that? Well, I don't blame you, because he's only watching Czech TV where he learns such things, and he doesn't have the courage to get up and go out into the field. I had the opportunity to see one such vaccination center yesterday, where seven doctors and seven sisters ten hours, I was only there for an hour, just vaccinated, vaccinated, vaccinated, there were always five six old grandfathers and grandmothers standing outside, always walking from the outside and leaving, that is, every minute one person entered this space. Those grandpas and grandmothers didn't stay there for more than five minutes in the vaccination zone, then they had to sit for half an hour to see if they had any symptoms. It was just a pleasure to have a look at it. And you degrade the work of these people with your speech and your opinions, who are doing it perfectly, and certainly some system they had to accept, had to be connected to something, because the attitude of those people, the operation of the vaccination itself and the departure was so smooth and wonderful that it testified to first-class work, not amateurism or incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u21	I, too, thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr David Kasal's point of order now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have to say that I wanted to abstain from any reaction, but I still have to take the lead on Mrs Pekarová Adamová through Mr President. It's been said, it means amateurism. I'll tell you what kind of amateurism I've had back at city level. The moment - and I'm not gonna be now - I'm not gonna say which side suggested that the vaccination center be in the hospice. It's an amazing thing. Those people we're supposed to protect, I was acting against it as a paramedic, so they laughed at me slowly: we have to do it. From our unnamed region, the vaccination center at the county office, which was not suitable and so on. That's what I call amateurism. So either we want to vaccinate those who need it, and there is the truth that we need to quickly vaccinate those risk groups, but I will tell the doctor that vaccination is not a race. It's not about when it's going to be, it's about time and safety. If the same politician tells me: they sign the paper, and that's settled, so I asked him: do you want to be sure that it's okay with you, or do you want to get a safe vaccination? And this is what amateurism looks like I've seen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u23	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, with a point of fact, and then Minister Blatný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u24	Thank you for the floor. To all three previous speakers through the President, I would like to set right what you are trying to move back here and demagogically say otherwise, especially the Volný Member. I didn't say anything about the fact that I relate amateurism to vaccination centers, doctors and nurses, to all those who then carry out the vaccination itself. The amateurism was demonstrated by this government in the system that it started, in the registration system. And here to Mr Vondrák through the President. You certainly confirmed that each such system will be tested before, that all these errors are being captured so that it cannot happen, for example, that one person can be entered there twice with the same birth number or that one can enter a term where a person under the age of 80 is not yet to pass through, and such things just happen. The fact that you guys are doing exactly what I mentioned that you refuse to see the reality - I understand that it's uncomfortable for you to admit sometimes that something doesn't work out, that there are mistakes, but that doesn't make the situation any better. The fact that this system is gradually improving, for example, in order to send a text to those people, I also mentioned this. So all you had to do was listen to my performance, and not put on what you want to hear, but really from the words and the reality that, even if you try harder and bring ten buckets of pink paint, you just don't rub it on the pink one. People see it, people experience it on their own, all those who want to register their relatives on Friday or even themselves, if they manage it at their age, I admire them. And once again, great admiration for all those involved in those vaccination centers. But another thing. Some of them weren't connected to the system by Friday at all. They had vaccine, but they couldn't order people -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u25	Madame, the time has ended for your point of fact. Thank you. Mr David Kasal and Mr Marek the Výborný, Ondřej Profant. The poor minister who wanted to respond has no chance yet. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u26	Thank you. I'll be very short, I'll mention a little bit more about health software. Mrs Pekarová, through Mr President, if we are introducing new software into the health sector, for example in a hospital, it takes six months to figure it out. You're talking about something you don't even know. And given what's now been done, it's an incredible thing. Within one year, electronic requests were made for a covid examination, where you can enter anything in the whole republic, and if I register in Chrudim, I can moop in Ostrava and no matter where the person will be moped up. And it's the same thing with the registration now. [[System]] Of course, if the assumption or if everyone thinks that the whole Republic will log in at once, it couldn't sign up, that's logical. [[is]] It's logical for me. And the other thing for me. If we're talking about someone slipping through, if there's 200,000 registered people over the age of 80 and one who slips in, it really doesn't matter at this point. It's important to me that there will be people from the risk group who are supposed to be there to get the vaccinations. And it's pointing, obviously it's a technique, it's a software that doesn't have to be perfect in some way, but in as short a time as it was created, it works amazingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u27	Thank you for keeping time to a point of fact, but they are multiplying. Now Mr Marek Výborný with a factual remark, then Ondřej Profant and three more entries. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Only very briefly to a colleague of David Kasal by your means. Now that the MP said about the systems, we all knew that the vaccine was the only way that could lead us out of the covid crisis. And so the government, or the Ministry of Health, could have been planning this since last summer. We all knew that, the vaccines were ordered sometime in May or June last year, they could work on it. That's one point. Second comment on what's going on here in the criticism of President Pekarová Adamová. We as AntiCovid team, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, repeatedly handing the government a helpful hand. We don't go to a press conference every week with a bucket of criticism that we would pour out on the government, but we give clear evidence, clear suggestions. Unfortunately, we don't hear anything from the other side except: you're just kicking us and not doing anything positive. That's not true. We've made so many proposals. And so is today's point. The only thing we wanted from Minister Blatný - and I thank him for his introduction here, where he answered some of our questions - we wanted clear numbers when it would also be possible to book in the age category minus 80, which is under 80, because these are the questions that we receive every day, as it is, Mr Member, you and others here in the House are certainly getting. [[16.30 hours]] When you wiped yourself out here about the Pardubice Region and the vaccination center in the Regional Authority building, how are the regions supposed to react? In five regional hospitals, vaccination centres in the Pardubice Region are prepared thanks to the representation of the Pardubice Region and these are the extra vaccination centres. In the district office building, where there is a completely isolated meeting room downstairs - I think we both know it - these are exactly the steps that the region will be able to respond to when the vaccine is finally enough to respond to public demand for vaccination. 'Cause I think we're totally in agreement on this, that this is the path that's supposed to lead us out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ondřej Profant's factual remark, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will prepare for the third factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u30	Good afternoon, colleagues. I understand that this may be difficult, but one more time. Technical implementation could not start without instructions, as Mr Dzurilla also confirmed. The order came about Christmas. That means it was some 13 business days to start the system. This means that it is really amateurism, that this government has not noticed that we have a year of pandemic and that this distribution will be needed. That's the problem. And then a system has been launched that violates the laws in force in this country, such as the forwarding numbers of Google's insured persons, hackable in several and known ways that have not yet been corrected. So is the e-application system. The systems are leaky, and actually, it's a great luck that no one has ever abused it. So stop spreading these lies, admit it's been set up late, that the system has flaws and that it needs to be fixed. And for the next time, we need to test those systems. Because if the system was tested penetratingly, there wouldn't be any mistakes like that. I hope that soon the Minister will answer the questions that were here at the outset, such as when exactly the creation of the system was commissioned. But he already told Mr. Dzurilla, so it was around Christmas. There's a lot of mistakes, we all know that. The idea of letting seniors recognize images of American hydrants within the recaptchi is truly magnificent and must have attacked some great thinker. [[RECAPTCHA]] Making a simple captcha is a question of about an hour's work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u31	Your time has ended for a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador. I draw attention to all registered comments, Mrs Pekarová is now registered, then colleague Čižinský, Procházková, Vondrák, He said that the factual remark cannot be used other than to respond to previous speakers and not to speak. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u32	Mr Kasal, through the President, in essence, has already responded in his own contribution. That's exactly what we've been saying and criticizing all along. The fact that you started prepping at the last minute like this. When the vaccine was ordered, on the same day he could have been instructed - and this is still to see Minister Vojtěch - the same day he could have been instructed to create such a system. Because I know these things take months, not just weeks. And that's exactly why it had to be started at the time, and not to do as the previous speaker has just said, until Christmas and keep it for 20 days. Well, then, yes. Then when we accept this angle of view that it's actually sewn with this hot needle, it still works really well for that. I agree. But that's the stumbling block, that it should have been long, long time ago. The fact that there's going to be some kind of registration, a connection to the vaccination centers, that people have to make appointments and that they're going to be millions of people overall, you fell off a strawberry, that you didn't know that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark made by Mr Čižinský, will be prepared by Mrs Procházková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u34	Thank you. I would also like to respond by your means to Mr Kasal. I think all of us here, I hope, have the same goal: to ensure that the vaccination takes place safely and as quickly as possible. The vaccination has two basic flaws. They are not vaccines, and from my point of view, a huge mistake is that practical doctors are not involved, because they would just help you speed things up and, secondly, find out everything they know about the patient safely and apply it. And it's not true that they don't want it at all. It sounds like they don't want it - it's not true! Before the registration system came up, we contacted the practitioners where I am the mayor in Prague 7. As a result, we ordered 1,100 vaccines and practically two days later we vaccinated two thirds of seniors over 80 years in Prague 7. How come they don't want it when almost everyone's involved? And it really went at a tremendous speed. So if we want to succeed, if we want to speed this up, then - I appeal to the Minister and I will speak to it in the debate - so forget that nobody wants it, it's not true. Now the practical doctors all want it, they know it. One doctor vaccinated 200 people in two days. It's all right, it's the best, it's the fastest, and it's the most comfortable for seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And before I give the floor to my colleague Procházková, the Minister is ready to answer your questions, he'd like to make it within 17 hours. But at this rate, it probably won't be possible. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u36	Thank you for the floor. Response to my previous speaker. You know, Prague, where you have behind your back at every corner of the faculty hospital, is quite different from, for example, the Karlovy Vary Region, which has practical doctors on the mountains, in villages, etc. It's delivering a vaccine that's minus 72, and the company has to deliver it, and especially when the county reports that it only has one vaccine center, then we can't be surprised that that's how it ends. So it's not true that everyone wants it. They don't want to! I get those reactions straight from them. First of all. And two. I really want to say one thing here: you know, our people in our country are such seamstresses. When we have something to go around, the first thing they do is not behave by the law. No. The first thing they'll do, such as an IT student who first sat down and bragged about it on Facebook, how well he can get around it, the whole system! Instead of having ethics command him that this information, if it - and I think it's not right when he logged in the very first minute it was started to flood the system, there must have been a lot more - so when he discovered some system error, he had to give the information politely to the Ministry to draw attention to it. [[He's here.]] No, he hangs out on Facebook with a picture so all our old parents can see how it doesn't work! Well, that's a big help!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivo Vondrák, with a point of fact. Also a colleague Podal, Kobza, Kasal, Aulická, Čižinský, Profant, Plzák. So it's probably not gonna happen to the Minister. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u38	Good afternoon. I'm sorry, I'm an elderly computer science professor after all, so maybe I didn't hear information about any of you sitting there saying that some reservation system should be prepared. So let's say it didn't come out here. Maybe it's because I'm really over 60 years old, so I'm approaching a critical line where I don't think so anymore, which I'm sure I'm gonna be sorry. But I'd also like to go towards our pirát. So you're talking about digitization, but please, the software isn't being criticized. The software has to be designed, implemented, tested, but I haven't seen a single software engineer create software by criticizing these things. Thank you. And I think you have the space, we all have it. I also communicate with Colonel Šnajdárek and we say what should be proposed. And don't hold back, I know you're an expert in TECH. But that's very little in this area, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Zdeněk Podal, Mr Kobza will prepare himself. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'd put it back on the ground. I would like to thank all the paramedics and the minister, because what we have ahead of us is not even important at this point in time, how quickly we are going to vaccinate, but if we assume what awaits us. In Israel, they are inoculating mass, and the infected are growing more and more. In Israel, because it is a comparable country with us, there are far more people inoculated, and yet they have these problems. And it's due to a new kind of coronavirus that has spread to them, and it's spreading mass. I just want to point out that the most important thing is to assume this new type of coronavirus that will come to us. So talking about some loosening up, removing the drapes is absolutely nonsense to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Kobza, with a point of fact. David Kasal will be ready, then Hana Aulická Jírovcová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to remind you that basically there is no excuse for the confusion about vaccination, because, on the one hand, there is a precedent from the Spanish flu about how the individual waves went and how they were distant from each other in time. And on September 30th, I spoke here asking myself that I would be very interested when the government is trying to fight the second wave of covid infection, what it does to prevent the third one from coming. I assumed I'd get an answer: yes, we're looking for vaccines, yes, we're looking for syringes, we're ready, we have a system to inoculate the entire population. However, none of this happened. And I think that's inexcusable, because by that time, all the data was already available for what's going on. And, of course, now that there are four other mutations of coronavirus, when there are no known responses of individual vaccines to these mutations, the government is just waiting for them to decide in the European Union. She's not willing to go her own way. She's not willing to look for something that's gonna work. But the decisions that come to us from Brussels are delayed, confusing, and essentially impose on us something, some solutions that we could have ourselves far more flexible and far better. So I'd like to call on the government to start thinking about, like, the Hungarian road and looking for a solution, other than what it gets served on a silver platter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now David Kasal's point of view. Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleague Pekarová, I just wanted to let you know that I didn't fall off any strawberries. I've been in health care for 27 years, so I didn't fall. I agree with what Dr. Čižinský said. So I'll admit to myself that I'm not excited about some big vaccination centers. If you do the math, and we talked about the need to inoculate risk groups, then if only 5,000 practices are involved, and I don't talk about others, every practice will inoculate 20 people a day from Monday to Friday. We have to subtract 1.8 million out of that 10.6 million, because they're children under the age of 18. We're down to 8.8 million. 30 percent to 40 percent did not want to be vaccinated, which is 5.2 to 6.2 million inhabitants. In that first case, the practitioners at this rate would have vaccinated it somewhere around six or seven months, in the second around nine months. If there's any other doctors, it'll be shorter. But I myself am not thrilled that politicians are involved in this in some cases. It's a functioning primary care structure. That's where they get through a functioning vaccine distribution system. And this is where it started out because unfortunately Pfizer is at minus 70 degrees and it can't go the normal way. That was it. That's all I'm answering to. And otherwise, I agree that the practitioners have all the information. I don't even know all the information she knows about her mother. She's 83 years old.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by Hana Aulická Jírovcová. A colleague of Čižinský will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have little time. Anyway, we, of course, wanted to do a much more extensive performance on behalf of the KSČM club. But I would like to comment on the debate here, especially on my colleague Čižinský. From the information that we may have, yes, it would certainly be great if our circuit doctors were to inoculate in the first place. On the other hand, and that's more of a question to the Minister, I don't know if he'll be able to answer any more, is how many practices themselves have been involved in the vaccination and how many percent have refused. That is what I think is the crucial thing that the Minister could say today so that we can get a picture. There's quite a great reluctance of these very practices not to engage in the vaccination at all. Then it's just your question. I know you've been in the Prague 7 report that it works for you. It was kind of weird for me that you guys got the vaccine and you could work like this, but that's the question of how did you get the relevant faculty hospital after that, and the question of the minister. But we're also wondering why we're still tied to the two vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna. We know there are more vaccines on the market. So why doesn't our government, or SÚKL, start dealing with others to check the quality and safety of the vaccines, we could provide enough vaccines for our citizens, and it could finally start to inoculate just because we were going to ensure enough vaccines and, of course, other things. The fact that there's a system that's created and we can argue about it, that's another thing. But if you don't have, sorry, what to serve, I might call it something else, but we're gonna behave, so maybe right now it's hard and pointless to solve the system that I hope will get much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I know you're reacting to each other, but do it through the President in principle, or I can't keep this order here. A colleague of Čižinský, then a colleague of Plzák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u48	Thank you. I, too, would have responded through the President to my previous speakers. I'm glad they're big vaccination centers. And I'm calling for a supplement to the system for a physician. About a colleague Procházková: what is possible in Prague 7 is possible in the Karlovy Vary Region, it is possible everywhere. There are self - sacrificing practical doctors everywhere who are willing to get involved. I'm not calling for mandatory involvement, I'm calling for voluntary involvement. The vaccine is at minus 70 degrees, then it thaws, then it must be maintained at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius and consumed within five days. Indeed, I am sorry, Madam President, that the Karlovy Vary Region is not so large that it is not possible to cross the region within four days. It's possible to deliver. Indeed, it is possible for practical doctors to have a vaccine in the refrigerator to thin it and administer it to their patients. No one can convince me that it's not possible. And that there are many practical doctors who are selfless and willing to participate in the vaccination, so please really take the poison, because that's the case. We practically checked it out. Like I said, two-thirds of the elderly over the age of 80 were vaccinated in two days. It would make it easier for hospitals. I estimate that if this option were to be voluntary, it would actually be possible to inoculate the elderly from 65 years above during the week. And I can't imagine how else to inoculate immobile patients who are unable to leave the house. There's no other way but to involve a physician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Pavel Plzák now. Mr. Válek will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm responding to a colleague of Čižinský. There are probably miracles happening in Prague 7 because I was intrigued that the doctor vaccinated 200 people in two days, if I heard correctly. That's 100 people a day. I've already been vaccinated, so I know how this whole process is going. The doctor will ask you if you have any medical problems and so on, something will come true, the card will fill out, then the vaccination itself. It takes about six to eight minutes. I figured the circuit doctor had to inoculate some 12 to 13 hours without the right to eat, to eat, and to run to the bathroom. I wonder if she was vaccinated on Saturdays, Sundays, or after normal hours of work. And then it's an incredible performance. [[16.50 hours]] And to my colleague Aulická. I guess the government can't negotiate directly with manufacturers because it's happening through the European Commission. I don't think the vaccines she mentioned, the others, are yet approved. So here's a little bit of a mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Válek, then Mr Dominik Feri and other applications by colleague Čižinský and colleague Aulická. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say by your means to my colleague Vondrák, we are both professors: seventeen times since July, through the President, Mr Ambassador, I have performed here. The most common answer was that I don't run with the reservation system until the EMA approves it, there's no need to prepare anything. I've edited my performances and my reactions, and I'd be happy to send it to you to have fun. I have two problems that I'd like to keep in mind. The first problem is that if we give the patients the first dose, we have to assume that Pfizer has to receive a second dose within 21 days. That means, please, let's not forget that. And God forbid they get the first dose, then the second dose doesn't come and it's gonna be a problem. I think that's an absolutely crucial thing that can't happen. And I don't want to go back to what wasn't, what didn't happen, I think it's irrelevant today. It is essential that we inoculate 60 percent of the population in order to inoculate them safely, to inoculate them with a high-quality vaccine and to do so as quickly and as sophisticated as possible. For AntiCovid, we're repeatedly offering cooperation, and I'm saying this again: I'd love to, but please, let's plan these things ahead of time, so we don't have an emergency meeting here in three months, where we're going to say that no one pointed that out three months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u53	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, with a point of fact. Also a colleague of Čižinský and colleague of Aulická. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing I imagined I'd see here today is that government MPs are whining that we're criticizing the government's reservation system. What do we do? Should we say, "It's wonderful, it's covered in sunshine, give another state honor"? You're out of your mind, aren't you? If you're criticizing us for not presenting any of our own solutions, what are we supposed to do? You have hundreds of officials, you have the Ministry. What are these people doing there? That's your job, you're the government, you're the government. We are the opposition, we oppose, but we also present our own solutions, which unfortunately you ignore. So, yes, we're criticizing you because you failed. You failed the government's vaccination strategy, the reservation system. You've failed the compensation grant systems. You've failed at everything you've touched. Don't be surprised. But it's your responsibility, you've got the hundreds of officials, you've got the people, so don't be surprised you're getting paid for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Čižinský. Another factual remark then to my colleague Aulická. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u56	Thank you. Once again, through yours, I would like to respond to the previous speakers. ano, I want to confirm that there are miracles happening in Prague 7. You were talking about a doctor who inoculated 200 people. Yes, the doctor's name is Hana Skalová. I can give you her number. The doctor really organized the whole office. We gave her the dining room, which means she was vaccinated in two teams. She arranged five volunteers for each team to help complete all the formalities, and it was all very well prepared. You really blocked out Friday and Saturday, and that's how it went down. But what are we dealing with here? I mean, we're dealing with the fact that the road exists, that the road works. Is there anyone here who doesn't like it working? And I strongly hope that the Minister will involve those practitioners, because, after all, who, apart from family members and acquaintances, has the greatest interest in having healthy patients around him? He's a practical physician. He'll just try. Then let's give him the benefit of the doubt. That's what I'm calling for, nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u57	Thank you. I hope that the final factual remark of my colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová. And then the Minister with a proper performance. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u58	I apologize to the Minister. I know he'll be running out of time. I'll try to be brief. But to Mr. Plzák. I'm sure you mean our famous EMA association, who is in charge of this approval. So explain to me why other states, Hungary or other states of the European Union, proceed without this association, without approval, and deal with their situation separately. I think that the Czech Republic is a sovereign rule of law and can proceed in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u59	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and now Minister of Health Jan Blatný, who will try to answer at least some questions in six minutes. The point will probably have to be interrupted at 17 o'clock. After him is registered for a proper performance by colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u60	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to respond for a moment. Very briefly to those things that were constructive, perhaps very briefly to those that were not constructive. As far as registration time is concerned, yes, there could have been someone who had 150 minutes, but there were also people like Mr. Svěrák and many others who thanked for registration and registered in a few minutes. As to when those will be vaccinated, this please depends on the delivery of the vaccine, and unfortunately we do not have as precise information as we would like. In no way do we record those who refuse vaccination because vaccination is not mandatory, and we do not collect this information, however, when someone decides to access the portal later, its age priority will be maintained. As far as constant comparisons are concerned with how badly we are. Please, let me just repeat what I have already said: we have over 1% of the population vaccinated after a few weeks, which is comparable to other European countries, we are on average. There are countries that are better, there are countries that are worse. As for how the vaccination sites are filled, please do not separate us from each other that the evil one is a reservation system and everyone else is absolutely great. Just until someone dumps the data into the reservation system, they don't work with them. That's perfectly normal. So if someone doesn't report vaccine sites or report them wrong, the system will evaluate it that way, process it, and please, it's not a mistake. It works as a unit, it works together, so that's how it works. Language mutations are being developed. I would just like to say briefly here that the burden of standard registers that we often refer to here, as those used in health care, those of you who are dealing with IT know very well that if the standard-used registers in health care were burdened the way this system was, they will fall within five minutes and no one will talk about it at all and no one will doubt it at all. So please don't say something else should have been used for this. The registration you're saying here, how is it possible that someone is registered while not being booked? That's the intention, please. Registration is just a line of people waiting. The SMS system, as has already been said here, will be launched during this week. Please berte this as proof that everyone really learns from mistakes, only the fool repeats them. And as far as the criticism is concerned, and here we are getting to the less relevant things, the criticism is really pointless, I think it's partly cheap. I would very much ask that we avoid it. Not because I'm speaking for myself that I don't want criticism, but let's just say the criticism where we can express ourselves in some way. Let's just remember that these are seniors right now, and the moment somebody's always saying how wrong things are, and they're wrong, they're just gonna make these people uncomfortable, and then it's very difficult for them to apply, because they're a priori approach, like it's a complete horror. How many of you, how many of us, please, are using Windows? Everyone. The rest of Mac. How many times have you cursed on Windows? How many of you Windows fell? And we're gonna say Windows is stupid? I'm sure we won't. So please, let's get back to some constructive criticism. But I don't want us to get mad at each other. I would just very much like us to say to each other the mistakes that are bound to occur, together, and to solve them together, but not to criticize ourselves here or to tell the truths, such as one of the fundamental truths, and I must therefore argue that the register would share data about insured people with Google. [[Highly:]] Please, fellow seniors - you may see me there, or you are taking me elsewhere - is not true. [[points to cameras]] No one shares your data with anyone, so please be careful with that. [[17,00 hours]] And questioning the whole system really only brings uncertainty into it. Let's try to work for a second. We can really have different opinions, we can be coalitions, we can be opposition, we can be anything, criticize, I will criticize too, totally fine, but please, let's make a deal now. So I'm really glad that I still have 30 seconds to make it, but for a while, it seemed like I was sitting here for three hours to have a fight with each other, which you have the right to do in the Chamber of Deputies, that's quite all right, but let's really try to make a deal to cultivate it together. So I'm really glad it all came out that way. I'm actually glad I could hear all the criticism. I can tell you for myself, I'll work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u61	Minister, thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Of course, I did not want to interrupt you, given how little time you had left to answer after the argument between Members and Members. If you insist that you're the first in line, it's secure as we proceed. I have to interrupt this point. And just because the Minister had so little time, I didn't interrupt him and I didn't ask the House for peace. There is a lot of noise here and I would like to inform you, at least as this point is interrupted, that we have interrupted during the speech of the Minister of Health, which will continue to open this point, it is also registered with priority rights from KSČM Hana Aulická Jírovcová and the ranking of other Members Jan Čižinský, Václav Klaus, František Navrkal. I will now hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-002-493.u62	Good afternoon, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. We will now proceed according to the approved programme. The next point is the number.
