ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u1	352. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 503/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga take the place of the rapporteur's desk, and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Lukáš Bartoň. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 503/3, which was delivered on 16 December 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 503/4. I am now asking the appellant, the Minister, whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Minister, are you interested in speaking before the debate is opened? No, you don't. It's okay. So I am opening the debate and Mr Ivo Pojezný is the first to sign up, Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me, too, to briefly comment on the amendment of the law on teaching workers and to present not only my opinion but also the opinion of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Therefore, I must start by stressing our clear support for the opinion of the broad pedagogical public, former ministers of education, deans of teaching faculties, educational unions, professional organizations, but mainly teachers, directors and important personalities of Czech pedagogy who view it quite critically. The biggest and most problematic point is also for us § 9a, which is intended to enable direct teaching work to graduates of any Master's degree programme, if they promise to study pedagogical qualifications within three years of the profession, and to do so, just sign the headmaster and his permission. [[Opening]] We can see that this is the issue that raises the greatest opposition to the teaching public and that they regard it as a contempt for pedagogical education and the degradation of the teaching profession. The reasoning behind this paragraph is the lack of teachers, which would seem quite logical, as well as the strengthening of managerial competences. But I see it as a relatively short-sighted solution. Moreover, I would like to stress that as regards the lack of teachers, this is only a local matter in the Czech Republic, it is not an all-round issue. Moreover, I think that the quality of the educational process in the entire teaching body will fall. Personally, as a longtime special educator, I cannot imagine that such a new teacher in quotation marks without professional education will teach the class with, for example, inculated children who have combined defects or psychiatric problems. As they can cope with them, it's hard to guess when these children are hard to work with even well-founded experts. I am not talking about what this matter in the congregation will do, where an expert amateur will be considered equally qualified only by signing the school principal. I would also like to remind my colleagues that experts from practice can already teach in secondary education and in vocational schools in particular in vocational subjects. Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will support some partial changes, such as the addition of some activities among teaching staff, be it a school psychologist, logoped, social pedagogue. We will support the introduction of the definition of class teacher, the adaptation of the teacher and the adaptation period. But what we want mostly is to learn not only qualified but also approved with a high standard of quality. Therefore, professional qualifications must remain a matter of the state and not a matter of the headmaster of the school. If § 9a remains in this amendment, the Communist Party will not support the amendment proposal. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u3	I will now ask Mr Martin Baxa to speak, Mr Antonín Staněk will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to my position on this proposal for an amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, as well as how the Citizen's Democratic Party club will stand up to it. The amendment was tabled to the Chamber of Deputies quite a long time ago and there was an important change in the meantime. The government has approved a key document for the future development of our education, and this is the 2030+ Strategy. On this occasion, I again looked into this strategy as to what this strategy said about teacher qualifications, about promoting teacher education, about the role of school directors. In strategic line No. 3, which deals with this, states that schools need capable directors and well-prepared, motivated teachers, and says that well-prepared and motivated teachers are a prerequisite for quality teaching. It also talks about the fact that one of the important roles of our education system should be to prevent the deprofessionalisation of teachers, to clarify the qualification system of education and to improve teaching at teaching faculties. Or, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, there is no talk in the 2030+ Strategy that the aim in the coming years should be to bring in teachers in the Czech education system who are not qualified to do so at teacher training schools. [[12.50 hours]] I intend to use the word faculty, school or faculty preparing teacher, not directly teaching faculty. After all, I myself obtained teaching qualifications not at the Faculty of Education, but at the Faculty of Arts and Science of Masaryk University, but in the teaching field. I consider it a very warning thing. If the key document of the education strategy in our country focuses on the long-term, high-quality, careful preparation of the teachers' profession, I think that this step in the proposal for an amendment to the Education Worker Act at the moment seems to be in conflict with this strategy. And it's either a question mark or maybe an exclamation point that should warn us and very carefully lead us to judge this bill proposal. We must also state, Minister, that, in recent weeks, opinions have arrived on this legislative proposal, which cannot be crossed by the fact that it is an opinion that has no qualified support or that it is merely impressions. If the Association of Deans of Faculty of Education in the Czech Republic opposes this amendment, if such authorities of pedagogical science in our country, such as Professor Spilková, no doubt it is another moment when one should concentrate on whether or not what we are to vote on is right. And I think, Minister, on your part, it is in a way - I would say - that you did not have any ambition in the public space to stand up to these arguments and have a really big, qualified discussion about it. You can't just go over the opinions of these experts with just some silence, or maybe some kind of internal commentary. This is such a serious amendment that it should be clearly stated for what reasons The Ministry of Education does not agree with these opinions on how they face arguments as serious as the Association of Education Faculties or some individuals who are authorities in their field. On the other hand, my dear colleagues, we also need to look at the current reality of Czech education, the situation in some regions, certain types of schools and some areas of education. I have already taken this final form before... or after a long time since it was presented here, I have taken the liberty of forwarding several dozen school directors with whom I consult my questions in the field of education and education. And I have to say that from a sample of 20 school directors of different types from primary schools to grammar schools to vocational schools, a large majority of those directors either said that they were okay with this amendment or even slightly agreed with it. Speaking of directors as leaders of the pedagogical process, it is obvious that he cannot directly arouse enthusiasm in any director if those who have not been prepared directly for the performance of the pedagogical profession should come to the schools. However, it is simply a fact that in some regions such as the Ústecký or the Karlovy Vary Region, in some types of schools or in some applications it is really very difficult to get a person who is able to work at the school to teach. And I believe that the headmaster of the school is able to assess whether the candidate he is taking up a job and, if monitored and properly led, is able to provide a good degree of education. I am therefore convinced, my dear colleagues, Minister, that, in defending this amendment, it should be made clear in the defence of this law that it is a temporary regulation and not a temporary one in the sense of the effectiveness of the law, but in the sense that the Minister of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Government should have an ambition to talk about the fact that what is now being proposed represents some bridge to overcome the difficult situation in which certain regions are located, some schools, because there is a shortage of teachers in some applications, and to make it ambitious in line with the 2030+ Strategy to gradually degrade this state from Czech education. After all, Minister, I wonder whether there is a possibility for us to teach unqualified teachers there in Finland, which we admire and to which we relate, so I would say to myself that I certainly do not, simply because the quality of teaching faculties and the prestige of the teaching profession is built there in such a way that it completely precludes the possibility of teaching someone who does not have the expertise to teach in Finland. I therefore call on you, Minister, not only here in the House of Deputies, but also in your work in the government, to make this amendment to the law on teaching workers feel temporary, so that it is just some temporary solution to eliminate the burning situation in some schools - we know the state there, the current regulation is simply problematic, after a year of audition and so on - and to achieve the ambition that teachers who are qualified in the Czech schools, as the 2030+ Strategy says, will operate in the Czech schools. I also want to say that there are many cases where teachers or educators working in schools who do not have the professional qualifications are the enrichment of the school. I think there is a need to show respect, respect for all those who are entering this difficult environment without having had their professional training, but we have to say that we have to move towards a state where schools will be taught by those who will be prepared for this in the long term. Colleagues, colleagues, I will propose to Members of the ODS Parliamentary Club to support this amendment in the context of a temporary solution to some unsatisfactory situation. But my reservations here are not just for this moment, for this text, which is here, but which, Minister, is speaking to you, the government, in order for it to work to ensure that there is no such condition in Czech education in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u5	Now a point of fact - Mr Václav Klaus. I have a real point here. And then Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I volunteered at the beginning of the speech to respond to Mr Baxa through you. Then the conclusion was a little different. At the outset, I found the ODS and KSČM club to be a moving match in such an adoration of various officials and universities and educational leaders towards school directors. Then, in conclusion, you said that you would also support this law, so I wouldn't have applied for that anymore. However, I would like to say for us that I think that the school directors know better what is good and necessary for their current situation. Far more than state officials, far more than different academics. And it is quite clear that different universities, which, of course, benefit financially from training the headmasters with school management and similar nonsenses that have been introduced, are against this. I myself got dozens of different letters and stuff. But it's almost always like that when it comes to money and the interests of different groups. Our hearts are on the board of directors. If I had my way, I'd cancel the Education Worker Act ad hoc, because nothing would have happened in the schools. Directors keep Czech education going, thank God. And we will also support this law in the final reading. And, of course, our amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u7	Now one more point of fact - Mr Karel Rais. Mr Antonín Staněk is still prepared. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u8	Thank you. I was somewhat provoked by my colleague Klaus, because I have long supported the increase in the management role of directors, and I think what he said is absolutely true. Certainly the director knows better than the people here in the Chamber of Deputies or officials in Prague, whom he is to marry or not to marry. He's also guarded by an institution setting up a primary school or a high school. So, of course, his possible poor choice leads to a negative response from parents or from the founder's surroundings. That's one thing. [[13.00 hours]] This reminds me of a discussion five years ago when we were discussing a monopoly on international study programmes that were at university level, and I didn't want to let them go, of course. What happened? It's basically nothing. There is still the quality of both universities and the quality of the institutions, for which the colleague has expressed himself a little more brazenly, I mean institutions that do supplementary pedagogical studies at universities and which are already able to provide some sort of qualification. So 30 years we've been here, 6,000 to 11,000 teachers are missing, time to essentially solve this problem for the monopoly, here it is, and if it's not able to solve the absence here, then logically the Ministry is coming in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u9	Thank you. These were all factual points at this point, so we will continue the debate. Mr Antonín Staněk is applied for, and then we will continue, if necessary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can assure you that my goal is not to stay here until 14:00, because I assume that the agreements are somehow made. My aim is only to sum up the argument, which I have already partially presented during the second reading. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your attention very much. I know that we are currently living in an extremely difficult time, which changes our priorities, and we are solving problems that we have never dreamed of. However, we are also living and working at a time that also records situations where there are changes to laws that have not had a chance of success in the past, and perhaps today because we are denying our attention to the fight against pandemics, they are inconspicuously passing through legislative -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u11	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues to remain calm. I believe that it would be better for you, too, if colleagues directly in front of you or before the speaker's desk pay attention to you or move their discussions elsewhere. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u12	[[Mr Klaus asks Mr Stanek at the speaker's desk how long he will speak.]] I don't know, ten minutes, not really, unless I'm interrupted, but thank you for the peace of mind in the Chamber of Deputies, so I'm gonna try really hard to be factual and quick. However, we are living and working in a time that also records situations where there are changes to laws that have not had a chance of success in the past, and perhaps today precisely because we are denying our attention to the fight against pandemics, they are inconspicuously passing through the legislative process. At this point, I am thinking of the House Press of 503, which is an amendment to the Education Worker Act. Madam, honourable Members, for the time that I have so far had the opportunity to spend in the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, I have learned that there are important personalities of our society sitting here, and there is also a spectrum of various professions represented by you. Colleagues and colleagues, whether we admit it or not, we have undoubtedly a significant influence on the climate in society by our actions and actions, and it is our duty to contribute to shaping a favourable social climate by doing so. Colleagues and colleagues, after the fall of the totalitarian regime, which even ideological distortions failed to destroy the good level of Czech education, it seemed that finally the famous "who the gods do not love will make him a teacher." Unfortunately, many expectations were not met and, on the contrary, two attempts were made in the first ten years after the Velvet Revolution to degrade the professional training of future teachers. The absurd thing is that they always came from the Ministry of Education. Indeed, I do not know any other ministry that would treat the staff of its department in this way. The first attempt took place between 1992 and 1993. The Ministry of Education should not have needed higher education to be qualified according to the intention of the Ministry of Education at the time. There was a danger that teachers would continue to be less educated than a large part of their parents. On behalf of the Association of Deans of Faculty of Education in the Czech Republic, the masters of professors Mezihorák and professor Kotásek visited the former Minister of Education, Professor Petr Piťha, and he finally acknowledged that if the education of the nation was to grow, the education of teachers could not fall, and he did not recommend and approve this attempt by ministerial officials. After ten years, the situation repeated itself. Again, the competent Deputy Minister of Education concluded that the lack of teachers will solve the need for only seniors, with one more bonus, and that such teachers will not be demanding even on a salary basis. The then chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, profesor Mezihorák, Emeritus Dean of the Faculty of Education in Olomouc, held a representative public hearing at the Senate on the topic of Teacher Preparation, the perspective of Czech education, during which important figures of Czech pedagogy decidedly rejected the intention of the Ministry of Education with their arguments. All contributions, including the contribution of Professor Mezihorák entitled The Memorandum of Czech Teacher, can be found in the Senate Archive and the main ones are also available in the publication with the same name as the topic of the hearing, which was published in 2021 at Olomouc Publishing House, and you can get acquainted with them. The then Minister of Education Petra Buzková, although she did not come from the pedagogical sphere, understood and subsequently answered the argument of the professional public and the Deputy Minister had to back down. Unfortunately, it was not possible to prevent absurd and senseless structuring of pedagogical studies, which brought about a significant negative impact on the content of the undergraduate education of future teachers. Great respect for both ministers of education who have found courage and heard the arguments of the professional public, as well as great thanks to experts whose activity and personal commitment has ultimately won common sense and managed to destroy these devastating attempts. All those who had done so in the past to win common sense and who were not indifferent to the level of professional teacher education hoped that no further attempt would come. However, with bitterness I note that the third such attempt is at the very threshold of its approval. It is unbelievable that, after almost 20 years, another attempt is now coming in the form of a Trojan horse placed in the current amendment to the law on pedagogical workers under Section 9a. Although he no longer proposes the liquidation of teaching faculties, he just wants to open up the space for entering virtually anyone in the position of teacher. However, the space for experts is already sufficiently open to the applicable legislative standards, and it is now to be impeccable. It should only depend on the director's subjective assessment of whether he will accept someone without pedagogical qualifications. The deficiency of pedagogical-psychological, field and subject didactic training is then to compensate for some pedagogical course, which is not even certain that it will have to be completed. In conclusion, I will ask the Minister to refer me to a specific text, whether in the existing law on pedagogical workers or in an amendment, which my belief is that it is not guaranteed that a teacher who becomes a teacher based on the decision of the Director will have to complete his pedagogical education because we did not find it there with the experts who read it. But it's human to be wrong, and we could have missed something. [[13.10 hours]] The problem that we see in the amendment presented, among other things, is that the directors, which administration, which is more abundant than the previous regime and which is so popular with the school inspection, often relieves the possibility of growing up in a person who cares primarily for education and education. Suddenly, they get unlimited personnel skills. I don't question the fact that school directors have these managerial skills and can handle them. On the other hand, it really is a Trojan horse in the hands of school directors, and they may later recognize the negative side of this novel. These directors would no longer have to follow objective qualification criteria, but they could choose someone completely subjectively and accept them. Sure, they won't if they really care about the quality of education, and I believe that. However, they would soon know that this Danish gift and journey to school hell can also turn against them. But first of all, it's something that nonsense shows up graphically when we just imagine it in other resorts. What experts would be even real to get much better paid out of the disciplines than the failed or weakest ones, which could still be enough for a normal and wretched teacher's salary? Moreover, if this absurdity had not worked, why should undignified educators be dealt with in the future? Moreover, the amendment comes at a time when a more dignified level of pay for educators has finally begun to be addressed, so many existing ones are already thinking about retiring or doing other professions. And teaching faculties are raising the number of teachers who are able to replace the departure, the natural departure that Czech education records. Ladies and gentlemen, all three attempts, both historic and current, take as a fundamental argument the fact that there is a shortage of teachers, especially in areas farther away from natural centres and in Prague. The solution is to dramatically reduce the qualifications of future teachers. This current third attempt is all the more absurd, as I have already said, because it comes at a time when, after years of promises, pay has finally come, teacher's salaries cease to be discriminatory, and all political parties promise to continue to grow rapidly. [[That's]] The intention of the Ministry of Education appears to be even less understandable after the Prime Minister's fresh promise that after this year's 15% increase, the jumping teacher's salaries will increase by another percentage next year. So the main, lost key to solving the lack of teachers, which was known for decades, but was sought only orally, was now finally found and began to be really used. Also, thanks to this positive step of the government, I already hear that those who wanted to leave school will stay, teachers - pension seekers are no longer in a hurry to retire, and numerical graduates of teaching faculties are willing to do what they have studied. This, at the same time, is a constant strengthening of the position of the teacher against the growing aggression of children and sometimes their parents, a journey that should have been taken a long time ago. Unfortunately, the Ministry, as it were to the widespread view that everyone understands and can teach education, proposes a way of resigning to the highest qualification of those who hold the most precious things in the nation's hands. Jan Picek, President of the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education, sent us an open letter to Members in which several key ideas and important arguments appear. Naturally, it confirms the right of our Members - but it also stresses our responsibility in this matter - to decide. It is important for our society to recognise the need for a teaching profession and to appreciate its complexity sufficiently. As I said, it happens. If the prestige of this difficult profession increases, it will certainly be interested in producing a sufficient number of high - quality personalities, whatever the path to teaching is. And that is why I believe that this amendment, if it should exist and have a function, should really be only temporary in nature, certainly not the character of the long-term, or even, as it is presented, essential. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you realize that the teaching profession is one of the regulated professions, which means that it is a state that determines the conditions for its execution, which usually means that it is a state that prescribes adequate education or the composition of certain examinations. It follows that teaching faculties preparing future teachers for their profession have strict conditions as to how this preparation should look. Therefore, all their teacher training programmes are subject to the approval of the regulator, that is to say the Ministry of Education, and must fulfil the conditions between the basic components of teacher training - for example, it is necessary to distinguish between teacher training for the second grade of primary schools, teacher training for secondary schools, and there must be a certain volume of certain subjects and so on. However, what follows from the amendment proposal actually states in the assessment of qualifications that it does not really matter what content of education future teachers receive. And I'm asking Professor Pick if it will have an impact on the overall level of teachers in the long run, especially in secondary schools. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 the Government of the Czech Republic approved the document Strategy for Education of the Czech Republic's Policy until 2030+, as amended, which explicitly talks about protection against the deprofessionalisation of teachers in Section 3.1. My previous speaker was talking about it. Today, however, the approved amendment to the Education Worker Act, as it has been written, opens the teaching profession to professionals from other professions, in principle even to those whose expertise may not have anything to do with teaching subjects in schools. It is thus in the context mentioned at all possible to understand the state's strategy in relation to the teaching profession other than a piece of paper, mockery of the professional pedagogical public, all at a time when we remember with great fame, even last year, 350 years since the death of Jan Amos Komenskýý and at the same time we are preparing to recall 430 years since his birth. [[as:]] Minister, I am asking you with a specific question, and I will repeat this once again - where the amendment on teaching staff specifically states that employees who are graduates of an accredited Master's degree programme and who have been recognised in writing by the school's principal as a prerequisite for the professional qualifications of a second-level teacher or teacher of general school subjects, and who have been completed... must begin the relevant - I am already finishing - qualification studies. According to how I, and not only me, but also other experts read the amendment, there is nothing about the obligation to start studying pedagogical qualifications within three years. I'm sorry, maybe the Minister - I don't want to delay it - did you hear the whole question, don't I have to repeat it? [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Thank you. I'd be happy to have an answer for him. Minister, the amendment also mentions school experts, but there are no vocational teaching subjects at the second grade of primary schools. There are exclusively general educational subjects there. Moreover, the section on which we are debating here does not concern professional teaching subjects at all. The vocational courses are exclusively in secondary vocational schools, schools and their teachers are already exempt from the qualifications in the law. [[13.20 hours]] There are still a number of such confusions and problems in the novel. And since I have promised that it is not my intention to pursue this law and be disproportionately long, and because I expect answers to my questions to take some time, I am coming to my conclusion or to the conclusion of my speech. However, as I said at the outset, § 9a is absolutely unacceptable at the moment, unless what I asked is explained, i.e. whether there is an obligation to study the relevant education within three years, and that Section 9a is, at this time, for the parliamentary club, but also especially for me, the reason that we have a big problem at the moment to support the amendment of the law as a whole, although we feel that there are a number of positive things in the amendment, but that Section 9a is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u13	Thank you. Mr Klaus will now respond with a point of fact, and then Mr Mihola will be prepared in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u14	Hello. I'm gonna help you keep the Social Democratic Club here a little while longer, and I'm gonna perform in response to my previous speaker's words through you. I'm gonna lighten this up a little bit. We're having an emotional week. First Mr. Kalousek said goodbye after many years, then dominated the incident yesterday, today it is so much calmer. I hope it stays that way. But I want to say one thing. Look, we're discussing this law here, there are arguments, but let's not forget that the MPs aren't trying to put us down until we get on the bench here. And Mr Pikal would compose parliamentary management, university studies. Of course, he wasn't so good at it at first, he was wrong. But now he's worked out and he's one of the elites of our Vice-Presidents in managing the meeting, and he's kind of like that in those schools. So that's why I'm on the side of the directors, and here I don't faint a little bit when different and educated people say something about it. I'll tell a joke - I totally disagree with it, but sometimes it's said in the folds - and it's said, "He who can't, teaches, and who can't teach, teaches how to teach." Well, that's a joke many of my colleagues have always told. I'm not saying it's true, but a grain of truth is sometimes true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u15	Thank you. I didn't feel the need to be replaced even when I was addressed. Mr Staněk will respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u16	Thank you for the floor. I thank my previous colleague Klaus, by your means, for expanding the funny window of this already slowly later afternoon, but we could still bear a lot of jokes about the teaching profession. There's no way I questioned the role of directors in my word. I don't even have a problem with the fact that this responsibility is being added to them. But I would just like to ask, Mr Klaus, by your means, Mr President, do you think it is essential, for example, that future applicants for a driving licence also attend a driving school in which teachers will be taught to obtain professional qualifications? Because I know a lot of young people who learn to drive on the roads of the fifth grade or somewhere in the parking lot, they are taught by their parents and often can drive better than they can. And I'm basically asking why we really need driving schools, why we need coaches to be educated, for example, because everyone can train, and even a representative team can lead anyone who can build a good team in a pub, and so on. There's just a certain obligation, a certain qualification. And once again, I stress the regulation of the teaching profession. On this basis, I believe that we should not reduce these qualifications. But that's just to the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u17	Thank you, and Mr Klaus will respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u18	Just a second, unconfronted. I think people are supposed to do driver's licenses and pass exams, that's a little different. As far as coaches are concerned, I don't think you're right anymore. When I think of Ivan Hlinka and the best coaches, they weren't exactly some academic trained people, but they just understood their sport, they had charisma, they had the strength to tear down the manchaft, and that's why they were winning. It's exactly the same with school directors who know who's dragging their team at school, who they're supposed to put there, and, of course, the vast majority of the directors are putting people there full of education, if they have them. If they're not, those directors have to get the lessons and it's up to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u19	Thank you, Mrs Valachová will still respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u20	Mr President, of course I will repeat three times that the debate that is going on in the last few minutes is an exaggeration and a bit of an attempt to humor during Friday afternoon, to lighten the atmosphere after a difficult week, but I firmly believe that they are not watching or will not be watching this transfer by high school students, because that may be exactly why the best students are not applying to teaching faculties and the best graduates of teaching faculties cannot be taught. I think the whole government policy that's been going on for the last five years has been aiming to change that. Personally, I think it's going well, but it's probably not by chance that the debate has gone wrong in a way that I'm saying is a joke - that anyone who can't, teaches, and who can't teach, teaches teachers. It's not funny. I think that's one of the reasons why we got to where we got in the teaching profession, and maybe it's sad that the government's bill gives it an opportunity to have such a debate, and that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has not responded to this debate, that it doesn't contain such a government proposal, and that the argument is completely out of line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u21	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Mr Mihola, Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am against the amendment to the law on teaching workers and, like some of my previous speakers, I will add that I am a little sorry, because there are many interesting and beneficial amendments. Some of them I tried to add with my activity. Unfortunately, the Minister took a negative position on the vast majority of them on the school committee. These amendments, whether they are extras for class teachers or school psychologists, special educators and others, will be supported, as will Bartoň's rapporteur's proposal regarding the guarantee of 130 percent of the teacher's salary against the average wage. As far as this discussion is concerned, I don't want to expand it any further, everything that may have been important has been said, but I am sorry repeatedly that there are so many school laws discussed here that we are not able to get into shape, into shape, to go through not with the coalition majority, which would not even work at this time, but simply with some broad consensus, because you know what inertia is and how hard it is to get back. Here on the one hand we see various doubts, now and new doubts here I perceived from my colleague Baxa from ODS, there is a disagreement between the coalition partner, there is a disapproval of the tolerant partner, a colleague Václav Klaus here recently said that it would be best to throw away the whole novel. So I think that this is not an ideal situation for a law that affects many things and affects many people. What matters is that the amendment is presented here, it does not actually address the proposal. The real solution to the problem is increasing teacher salaries to the promised level, by motivating those who have left school for pay to return to it, and those who are currently studying at faculties not only teaching but also at faculties preparing future teachers to actually enter the teaching process. And that's the way the Minister is going, I'm keeping my fingers crossed, even though I'm sorry for the nine percent now and instead of the four, but I'm not gonna discuss it. In any case, it's a way, and it's a solution. That's what I'm rooting for. And I absolutely don't understand why it spoils this novel, which I think is poor quality, and also poorly communicated. [[13.30 hours]] For many questions, we simply did not receive answers from the Minister from different parties, not just from me. They just didn't. I'm sorry he didn't give this law another chance to discuss this amendment. I was making a motion to renegotiate the school committee. I think it was a correct position, unfortunately, there was no support here. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that resigning from qualifications is simply a mistake. With a lack of teachers, and in our country it is a problem especially for certain regions, we know that they are facing in Austria, in Germany and in other countries, but they do not act as simplisticly as we do. We report here repeatedly and stress Finland. I fully say: I would like Czech education to be like Finnish. But we can't just choose what we need. The Minister once said to me during the discussion here: Finland is difficult to catch up - or we are imitating myself not to argue over words. You're right, Minister. With this approach, not only will Finland, but we will not catch up with Austria and Germany. And we will have to be very careful not only to start losing to these countries soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u23	Thank you. And the next one entered in the debate is Mrs Valachová, the last one at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u24	Mr President, fellow Members, Mr Minister, allow me to comment on the various amendments that I consider important or that I have tabled with my fellow Members in the third reading. I will first respond to the general debate that is being held today. Personally, I feel that in the event of a battle of words about the qualifications and unqualifiedness of teachers, a lot of things are mixed together, apples and pears, and somebody's gonna mix lemons and oranges. It is also important to say, and I think that even those colleagues who are not members or members of the school committee see that the unqualifiedness that the amendment to the Education Worker Act allows according to the proposal is perceived differently by everyone. In short, everyone is telling each other differently what her approval is going to mean. Of course, this is not good news either. I would like to thank the professional public, but also the groups of teachers and directors, the professional associations who are contacting us and giving us information, arguments on the subject of qualification or non-skilled. From a practical point of view, I would really like to ask that the opinion of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on Section 9a be heard before the third reading, namely on the sentence: "Can the headmaster acknowledge in writing the presumption of professional qualifications of the teacher - these are different variants - for a maximum period of three years from the date on which he began to perform this teaching activity." So the director can recognize an unqualified person for a maximum period of three years from the date on which he began his teaching activity. There's nothing else. And I personally think that this is the reason that may lead to argumentary battles, fears and fears that we, as Members of Parliament, will actually approve. These are not the personal fears of a particular Member or MEP, I would even say no specific political parties, but it is the consensus of the general public. For this reason, I think that before the third reading vote, we should clear this up, and I think that's fair. The second thing that was mentioned in the general debate, and I have already pointed it out in the second reading, so just briefly, colleagues. It is not true that the Czech Republic is dealing with some scandalous lack of qualified teachers and teachers throughout its territory. That's hard data, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has it, I won't repeat it, I mentioned it at second reading. These hard data show that they are percentages, really units of percent in several regions. Of course, this does not mean that we should not deal with this situation. They did, but certainly not by reducing the standard of qualification and quality of the teaching profession, and thus training our children throughout the territory of the Republic. On the contrary, we should support all the steps to eliminate this problem in individual regions, whether by support, such as partial bonuses - and, of course, the school directors have this competence, even the founders, it has been mentioned here - to recruit qualified teachers into those regions, whether by other incentives that a number of schools are doing today, for example by promoting housing provision, if graduates are away from other regions, because it is true, and I recognise that not every region has its own in quotes close to the faculty of education. But these options, the directors and the founders, the enlightened ones, are taking advantage of them, and I don't think there's any reason to reduce the qualifications of teachers. The problem is also the timing when we are having this debate on the qualifications of teachers, because not only inclusive education, as has fallen in several contributions here, but especially the time of impact of COVID-19 on our education system, and not only now, but also after that, when we have to deal with the impact on education of our children, it will require high, the highest qualification of teachers and teachers. The fact that other foreign regulations and countries are going in this way has also fallen here. I would like to say that in the case where we refer to the headmasters and school directors that they are next - and that falls here, even though I don't think the law says so, but apparently most people interpret it this way - that the principal will be, whether the teacher or teacher is qualified or unqualified, so here I just want to point out that the director has no direct influence on the methodical, pedagogical and didactic activities of each particular teacher and teacher in the education of children either in the law or in the school law. On the other hand, the methodology, didactics and pedagogy are teacher's rights explicitly enshrined in the school law and the director has only a general obligation in his managerial capacity to take care of the overall quality of the educational process. This is the way it is by law and by law. So I'm pointing this out so we don't pretend that the directors and the directors will sort everything out for us. We would make it easy on ourselves, leave them in the hands of black Petr, and then we could act as legislators, that we don't really care about the qualifications of teachers and teachers in the Czech Republic anymore. And I don't think any of us colleagues want to. For the last time, because it is often repeated, I want to say that no one has prevented and has never prevented experts, not only teachers experts, but also from other professions, from entering schools. We have these options, within the framework of legislation they are being used. Logically, they are used in particular where, on the contrary, we need these experts in terms of ensuring their adequate quality and the pace of innovation in education, and these are vocational subjects. But that's been going on for a long time. [[13.40 hours]] As far as the field of expertise is concerned, I would just like to point out that of course every teacher or teacher has there, but in addition they also have other expertise in terms of pedagogy, didactics and methodology, and this is a problem to show how the unqualified one will gain these competences in the future. And I would like to say, colleagues, colleagues, that since 2015, we have changed the profile of the teaching profession, started new qualifications, the National Accreditation Authority accredits, all these steps are ongoing, the network of faculty schools is strengthened, the graduates of schools - they increase significantly, by tens of percent, their entries into the teaching profession, in short, the system works as it was set up. Fear is simple - that this essentially useless paragraph of this good, which is worked out, can destroy. So much for the general debate. Once again, I just point out, and please respond before the third reading vote, that is, for a maximum period of three years from the date on which this teaching activity began, the new competence of the director - where are the guarantees in terms of addition of qualifications? Because it sounded public for two years, and it probably sounded government-based. For the last time, colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the amendments concerning the teacher's class teacher, the teacher's teacher's and specialised activities. There's been a lot of talk about class teachers, classrooms and teachers and adaptation periods, so I'm not gonna repeat that. The fact that it is desirable - no doubt about it - to anchor these two things. But what we may have forgotten is the methodology of school prevention. I just want to say that he remembers those amendments, too, and I would like to ask you very much to support this, because not only in the long term, but right now, as a result of the COVID-19 and the impact on the education system, and in turn, when we will have to strengthen the various differences that will arise and eliminate inequality, and worry, we need to strengthen this profession. The methodists of school prevention have been waiting a long time for this, and I beg you very much to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u25	Thank you. I'll ask for more peace in the room. These are all the applications for the debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur. Mr. Secretary reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u26	Thank you for the floor. I've been asked to respond, so I'll respond at three quick points. Firstly, I would like to say that this is a government proposal that has been approved by 14 votes out of 14 in the government. That was some of the reservations, I think, Mr Mihola, as it is non-governmental or unnegotiated. But it doesn't matter at this point, we're in the House. The House is a hegemon, so I fully respect that. Regarding the question which was here, or one more comment that the director is not responsible for the pedagogical, methodical and other process. [[The President shall convene the Member's gong to the Chamber.]] Of course, direct performance in the classroom is teaching, no one doubts that, but the director evaluates teachers precisely on the basis of the way they perform... This is why we want pedagogical supervision to be here, and that is why we want him to go to hospital, and that is why we want remuneration to be consistent with this. So while it's not explicit in the law and of course the primary teacher is in the classroom, the principal always had that responsibility, he has and I firmly hope he will. [[He speaks very quickly.]] As far as professional qualifications are concerned, I would like to say that the prerequisite for professional qualifications is recognised by the school head for a maximum period of three years from the date on which he starts teaching. This is (§) 9a, which you quoted. After this period, they must comply with the conditions of professional qualifications under the relevant provisions of Law No. 563. This means that we are moving to Section 7a, where common methods are given for obtaining vocational qualifications as a second-grade primary school teacher and as a teacher of general secondary school subjects. That's the rope. And I just want to say that it isn't, and I repeat it every two years, even at the 2019 Dean's Dean's Association meeting, when we talked to them about it for the first time and certainly not the last time, so we talked about, of course, not replacing the primary channel, that is, the teaching faculty itself. It's a secondary channel, and it's about the fact that the school principal, who today decides who's going to teach, who he's going to accept, even if it's an exception, will be able to take a Master's degree and give him support for three years to supplement his pedagogical studies in some way. So it's another way, not questioning everything that's been said here. That is why this law is not as drastic as it is sometimes prescribed here in discussions. The answer to the question was to the first, second, and third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u27	Mrs Valachová will respond with the assistance of priority law. However, I have already called my colleagues to the hall and we will be the first to vote on rejection. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u28	Thank you for your answer. However, this means that there is no condition, no rule to start a study within three years, as was the case in public debates in the school committee. I just want to say that, as described in the provision, three years simply go by, the director can decide again on the next three years, or that unqualified colleague can go to another school, have another three years, and no insurance that within three years. This means that it is limited in time, as it happened here in the debate, there is simply no hope.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u29	Thank you. As I said before, we will vote on rejecting the bill, because it is the proposal that was previously made. Then we'll discuss the procedure. I believe that I have called everyone to the O.R. and that all those who wanted to be present are already present. So, I repeat, we're going to vote for rejection. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 99 Members and Members in the 126 vote, for 17, against 63. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them in the vote. Please. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u30	Thank you for the floor. The procedure is in the Houses of Press 503/4. The procedure itself has 30 points, with the dominant majority being that some point is excluded with the adoption of another amendment or vice versa, so the procedure is extremely complex. The first point was, in fact, the vote to reject the proposal. The second point is the approval of legislative technical amendments proposed by the Education Committee. There's four of them, and I'll say them in a nutshell: Firstly, Amendment 7069, which I have loaded, should be correctly 7096, in the procedure this is further marked. Furthermore, in order to be able to vote, the effectiveness in B7096, point 6, is replaced by "1 July 2020' and "1 January 2021' are replaced by "1 September 2021'. Furthermore, in the amendment to PN Mihola G5200, the words "§ 133 para. 2' is replaced by "§133'. This paragraph does not have paragraph 2. For PNY 7111, which by mistake contains two points, the second third point is numbered as point 4 and is hereinafter referred to as point 4 in the procedure. So much for the procedure. There are 27 other points to be put to the vote on individual amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u31	Yes. The procedure is therefore presented as a House press. If there is no fundamental interest, I believe that it is detailed enough in the Houses of the Press, and we can therefore approve it as such. I therefore initiate the vote on procedure. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of the procedure? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 100 Members and Members registered in the 127 vote, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the procedure gradually. Now the technical ones, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u32	Point 1 is skipped, item 2 is voting on the legislative technical adjustments recommended by the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u33	Yes, we've already presented them in detail here. Initiating vote 128. I'm asking, who's in favour of the technical modifications? Who's against it? [[Minister: I am supplementing the agreed opinion.]] I'm sorry. Who's against it? In the vote number 128, 100 Members and Members were registered, for 96, against no one. We have therefore adopted the technical proposal and now the proposals in substance. I ask the rapporteur for a first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u34	Point 3 of the procedure is the vote on Mr Klaus 4490's amendment, which is very complex. It changes a lot. It's a change of almost the entire law. The Education Committee does not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u35	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 129. I said, who's in? Who's against it? The number 129 vote shall include 100 Members and Members. For 2, against 82. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u36	Point 4 of the voting procedure, voting on the committee proposal A1 and A2 - the introduction of a school logo. The opinion of the Education Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u37	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 130. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 100 Members and Members in the 130 vote. For 94, no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u38	Since A1, A2 has been adopted, we are skipping point 2 of the procedure and coming to paragraph 6 of the procedure that we are voting on unless Mr Klaus' amendment has been approved. We will now vote on Amendment A3 and A4 concerning the addition of teaching studies to § 7a, and the adaptation of § 22 so that future teachers can obtain qualifications by studying pedagogy. Opinion of the Education Committee, recommended by the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u39	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 131. I said, who's in? Who's against it? The number 131 vote shall include 99 Members and Members. For 92, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u40	We are coming to paragraph 7 of the procedure where the vote will be on Amendment Bartoň B7096. This amendment concerns the salary of pedagogical workers and introduces them into the law to the minimum average salary of a pedagogical worker at 130 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic. The opinion of the Education Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u41	I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 132. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 98 Members and Members in the vote number 132. For 56, versus 14. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u42	Thank you. Point 8 of the procedure can be skipped because it would only be if the E4490 has been approved. So was point 9 because it was approved by B7096. Point 10 can also be skipped because the amendment Bartoň B7096 has been approved. Point 11 of the procedure can also be skipped because an amendment has already been approved which excludes it. Item 12 of the procedure can be voted because the E4490 has not been approved. And now we will vote on the amendment by Bartoň B5358, which aims to maintain the current status of accreditation in continuing education of teaching staff. The School Committee has taken a non-advisive position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u43	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I started voting number 133. I said, who's in? Who's against it? There are 99 Members and Members in the vote number 133. For 23, versus 41. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u44	Now we have not accepted the B5358, so we can vote in paragraph 13 of the procedure, because this can be done if it was neither E4490 nor B5358. This is an amendment by Vácha-Válek C4428. This is again a retention of accreditation for further education of pedagogical staff. The School Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u45	Thank you. The ministry's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I started voting number 134. I said, who's in? Who's against it? There are 99 Members and Members on the ballot number 134. For 35, against 25. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u46	We will now proceed to paragraph 14 of the procedure, the vote on Amendment Bartoň B7097. It is a supplement of § 22 to a native speaker for teaching in foreign languages. On this subject, the School Committee adopted an unadvised opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u47	Thank you. I'm asking for the ministry's opinion. [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I started voting number 135. I said, who's in? Who's against it? The number 135 shall be 99 Members and Members. For 22, versus 54. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u48	Furthermore, we will vote on the 15th paragraph of the procedure on Amendment Bartoň B5361. This is a supplement to the Government's draft § 9a and the possibility of recognition of qualifications for those who have been teaching for at least ten years, five of which are at the same time at the school. The Committee has delivered a non-advising opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-22-ps2017-079-03-007-352.u49	Thank you. The ministry's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 136. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 99 Members and Members in the 136 vote for 29 against 45. The motion was not accepted. Given how much time we have, I would no longer go into the next vote so that we do not go beyond the time reserved for third readings. So we all know where we left off. [[Some Members are already leaving the O.R.]] It is 14 o'clock, and that is the time that is reserved for third reading, and given the situation in the hall, I do not believe that we can continue the negotiations today. So I'm going to interrupt this meeting. We'll continue next Tuesday, that is, January 26, when the block of first reading points is on the agenda at the moment, where we should start... [[He's looking in the background.]] Too many prints... Here. Where we will begin with the House press 731, the amendment of the Act on non-originating species, this is the implementation of the EU, where there are several other implementations. These are points 41, 42, 43, 44 and above. These are House prints 731, 758, 799 et cetera. Thank you. So meet me Tuesday at two o'clock and have a nice weekend.
