ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u1	2. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency I shall repeat the Rules of Procedure in this case, i.e. the procedure of the Chamber of Deputies for extending the emergency situation under Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, and under § 109m Act on Rules of Procedure. Please make sure that our colleagues and colleagues are careful to know exactly what the procedure will be, because we have had some problems here. Let's do it again. The debate is held only one. It is not possible to apply factual remarks. The Member may speak at most twice in the debate. The House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes if the proposal is made. I don't have a proposition yet. Any limitation of speaking time shall also apply to Members in charge of bringing forward the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter. The withdrawal of persons with priority rights shall be without prejudice to. Accompanying resolutions shall not be excluded. This is therefore the whole proposal and repeat of the procedure for negotiations on the extension of the emergency situation. I note that you have received House document 7369 on the proposal to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency situation. I will ask the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrej Babiš, to give the opening word. I will then give the Minister of Health an additional introductory word. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u2	Hello again. Mr President, honourable Members, I come before you today on behalf of the Government with a sixth request for an extension of the emergency situation that the government has declared in relation to Coronavirus on 30 September 2020. Today, the government before you, the Chamber of Deputies, is making a new request to extend the emergency by 30 days, until 16 March 2021. Emergency isn't government fiction. This is a necessary means of implementing a general anti-epidemiology measure that can restrict civil liberties and make full use of the assistance of the Czech Army and the integrated rescue system. The capacity of health facilities in some regions is on the edge, sometimes it is necessary to transport helicopters to other regions outside the standard air rescue system using military or police helicopters. I've been given multiple challenges from different institutions, organizations, and especially from paramedics. For example, the Association of Czech Moravian Hospitals warns about the immediate end of the emergency situation. It says that national coordination of hospital activities and care provided by hospitals would end. State, regional, urban and private hospitals would only provide it according to the instructions of their founder or owner. The necessary transfers of patients with COVID-19 would only be possible on the basis of a voluntary hospital agreement. The organized assistance of the army and the possibility of calling in other medical personnel in hospitals would be over. Hospitals would have to return from the state rental devices and equipment, health care workers could not be rewarded for their extra efforts, on the contrary, only the code of work and the time set by it, including overtime and others, would be fully valid again. Moreover, from one day to the next, most measures taken by the state and regions to limit the spread of the disease would be ineffective and unenforceable, which would lead to a complete release of contacts between people. For a number of months, hospitals have been at the limit of their possibilities and some are on the verge of collapse. The complete dispersal and uncontrolled spread of the disease, including new virus mutations, is the way to further overload hospitals and the rapid collapse of the hospital network. The system of testing and vaccination against COVID-19, built mainly on hospitals and their personnel options, would be fundamentally affected. Therefore, with full seriousness and knowledge of the situation, we turn to the Government to proceed in negotiations on the extension of the emergency situation in a way that allows consensus to be reached, and to the Members, to allow such consensus. Moreover, firefighters could not even deliver vaccines in, for example, the Moravian-Silesian Region and would be paralyzed by the activity of state material reserves. [[14.50 hours]] I was accused of allegedly not wanting to cooperate. On Sunday evening we had a meeting held by President Bartoš with President Austrian, and I received material which I also handed over to the ministers. I thought it was the first step in finding an understanding to prolong the emergency situation. Unfortunately, it ended with a press conference and some Twitter messages. If anyone blames me for not communicating, I'm communicating. I communicate when I'm approached, but not through the media or Twitter. I communicate when I get a text. Mr Jurečka also wrote to me, which is why I immediately asked Minister Hamáček to discuss the resolution of the situation and the solution after the meeting on Tuesday, whether the opposition would support the extension of the emergency situation. Unfortunately, some specific things have not happened. Yes, yesterday I was in Serbia, it was a long-term planned journey. I went there mainly to gain experience as Serbia, who is the second in Europe today in vaccination with Great Britain, the second best in Europe and the seventh best in the world, vaccinated. In doing so, they have three vaccines, Pfizer/BioNTech, Chinese and Russian, and that Serbian citizens can choose. And I've been doing other things. Because there has been a situation here where we are accused of not cooperating because we do not want to approve any laws of economic nature or any laws of political character such as the electoral law, but I think that simply extending the emergency situation is not about - that it has an impact on budgets, yes, but that we should move away from politics, and unfortunately it is not. And last night, when we were discussing this with Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, I - and it is true that the impulse came from Mr Mihola - contacted the opposition parties again, and finally I called a meeting at 8:30 a.m. this morning, asked for a break in the meeting, and we acted for two hours. We suggested we get time to 1. 3. so that we can actually agree very specifically on behalf of our health care, for the benefit of our citizens, and I have taken this mortally seriously. Unfortunately, the debate always ends with me, and now, for the Pirates, Mr Ferjenčík, an MP has said that the end of the emergency will mean that the fight against the epidemic will be run by the governor instead of the Prime Minister. This is, of course, good news, because it is a system in Germany where basically Saxony, Bavaria and other regions work. If this happens, of course we will support the regions, but we need to realise that then our options will be limited. And it's not about Babiš running everything. We have advice on health risks, we have an integrated central management team, we have a clinical group, we have epidemiology, laboratory, etc., and I focus mainly on getting the vaccine as soon as possible, because that's the only solution to the pandemic - vaccination. We, like all other countries in the European Union, are getting a late vaccine, and suppliers are still changing deadlines, like Moderna, in the beginning of Pfizer etc., so that's my job. And I'm also trying to get the antipoints, the so-called cocktails, the antibodies that help in the first phase, when a person is infected, so that he doesn't have a hard course of disease, so he doesn't end up in an ICU. That's what we're fighting for, that's what I've been dealing with, from Lilly, and we're fighting for the antidote from Regeneron, that's what I do. Of course, I was not actively involved in the solution and tolerance of the prolongation of the emergency situation in the past, of course it was mainly a matter of the Minister of Health or other colleagues, but mainly the Ministry of Health has to justify the reasons for extending the emergency situation. I'm sure the Minister will speak today, Vice-President Hamáček will speak with specific information on what this will mean when the emergency is over. Unfortunately, I naively assumed that when someone approached me, of course, I was reacting and trying to reach out, and we also suggested today, give us two weeks of time. There was even a suggestion this morning that we would make a government resolution. I said yes, we will do the government, the government will commit itself to the opposition, that we will accept specific commitments in three blocks. Epidemiological situation: you are still saying that you have some suggestions, so say them specifically, here, when unfortunately no agreement has been reached, what you are proposing specifically. Very specific, not just some thesis. Legislation, yes, pandemic law. One of my colleagues here told me to deal with it, that I should read it. I can't read the law. That's the law the Ministry of Health is making, and, yes, he should have been ready by now. But if it solves -- and as far as I know, it won't solve the situation if we get rid of the emergency clearance, it won't even be a solution. And then, of course, it's about the economic design here. We are able to deal with these proposals within the budget. On Monday, February 15, the government will discuss the amendment to the State Budget Act and we will want to discuss it in the House as soon as possible. Of course, we will be able to perceive the proposals of the opposition and of everyone, the proposals that are directly linked to the pandemic, and we are ready for that. I'm serious. I certainly refuse not to act. When I'm approached, I act. We've been acting for two hours, and I've been accused that my word doesn't mean anything, that a government resolution is needed. So I said, okay, so let's make a government resolution. But the deal didn't happen because it needed everyone's approval. And I'm so sorry. We're still ready to deal with the opposition. Yes, you ask: why didn't you come before? Because, and I'm not gonna lie because we've always had a deal with another political party, and we haven't been able to live up to that last deal. My colleagues from the government will confirm that when the number of hospitalized people and the number of people infected and the number of people in the ICU began to decline, we were already preparing a government resolution that we were going to let go of the ski resorts and we were going to deal with the senior year and I think we're going to do the final year. In short, the situation has developed quite the opposite, the numbers of hospitalized people have started to rise and we have not been able to live up to our promise because no one expected it and Professor Dušek's predictions have gone in a completely different direction. [[15.00 hours]] And if anyone today is able to give a clear prediction when the virus mutates -- he mutates, he's still attacking -- we're resisting vaccination, but we don't have enough vaccines. The virus - yes, we have a British mutation here. It is clear that the British mutation will soon prevail from the point of view of the disease, and it is 40 percent more contagious. In Austria, they already have a South African mutation, and the worst thing is finding out that a Brazilian mutation has arrived in Portugal. And that's a big problem. So, yes, you can blame us, we've had so many emergencies and what you've done. And why it is and why it isn't. I don't want to defend myself here, of course. We've always said, yes, we're responsible. If the opposition now claims that we should hand it over to the regions and the regions will do better, then of course we will have nothing else left, and it will be the German system. Of course, we're mostly gonna take care of the vaccine. We'll make sure that if we already have a bigger vaccine, because we only have 1.7 million for the first quarter and 8.4 for the second quarter, so five times more. Of course, we will prepare for this, of course, we will address the capacity in hospitals, and we will do our utmost to help the regions. However, it should be noted that by the end of the emergency situation, certain area measures will no longer be taken. They're full of hospitals. We're really trying. It's the dispatcher. I have repeatedly, repeatedly suggested - and last night I spoke with the coordinator of the Karlovy Vary Region, Dr. Dagmar Uhlíková, if she needs any help. I got a call from the Saxon Prime Minister yesterday. No problem, we're securing the dispatch, and if we need to, of course, we're going to ask Saxony and Bavaria for help. But the coordinator has to say it. Yes, in terms of the situation, for example, in this region... I think I agree that our hygiene should have reacted faster. If we were in the first wave last year - but that was not yet a community transfer - Olomouc Regional Director responded greatly, closed Litovel and solved it and then we discussed Karvina and OKD. So it's true that we're late at Trutnov, Cheb and Sokolov, and hygiene should have responded sooner. It's not about us saying we're gonna ban the movement of citizens between regions, it's a county. It's being interpreted again that we said something and we're doing something else. No, it's a county. It's a county, and we really want to provide help there, but ending the emergency situation will be very difficult for us. There's a lot of risk. Germany has announced that the lockdown extends until 7 March. I am communicating with Deputy Pendlers Zuzana Vintrová, and there is a serious concern that if the emergency is not extended, Germany will react so that it will have a very negative impact on our Pendlers. Can it happen that they're just going to put the Pendlers in the infrastructure, and then what are we going to do about it? How do we help these people? So I'm just pointing out that-- and I want to ask again-- if we couldn't reach out behind closed doors, we could get a microphone here. Tell us what we have to do to prolong the emergency to prevent the risk of our health care collapse. I think it's very, very important. And I don't think we're alone. I've spoken to some of the captains, and I don't know if they really want to - it would actually be the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, that they would take responsibility, that each region would function independently, and we as a government would, as far as possible, help them. Engaging an army when we have 900 soldiers deployed. So I'm sorry our two-hour negotiations didn't work out. Try to think about it again. We're ready to listen on the microphone here - but your specific suggestions, not just... I always feel like we're gonna meet, you're gonna go to a press conference, you're gonna tweet that you're not even serious. I didn't go to the press conference, I didn't comment at all, I didn't comment on Sundays, I didn't comment on today's meeting. I don't do tweets, I don't even have time. I'm not doing this to make myself visible, but I'm not sure we have the same attitude. I'd like you to really think about it. Because yes, it's simply said that we can't handle it. I don't want to argue what the main reasons are, I think I'm communicating on Sunday. I can only ask all citizens of the Czech Republic to pay even more attention to themselves and take care of their health when the emergency is over. And it's, I repeat, relatively simple. It's about transmitting the virus, it's about following those three R's, about contacts. Of course, when the emergency is over, there will be a much higher mobility of our citizens. We will respect that and, of course, we will take measures to protect the lives of our fellow citizens within the scope of the Ministry of Health's options and competences. So I'm hoping that even after the government decided on the duct tape, or as we called it in the government, that support, so that people wouldn't be afraid to indicate contacts. Now I have read Mrs Jágrová's absurd conversation, which says that her wife has withheld contact with her husband while traveling during a conversation with the health department. Those are the things we want people to realize that the virus has really changed and it's very aggressive. There's still a high mortality rate today, and they're dying much younger than before. Until now, no one has ever really figured out how the killer is attacking and killing people. No one's researched that, not even scientists. So I want to ask you again, if you wouldn't reconsider your position, and they didn't give us a two-week, two-week chance. And again, in any case, the government must sit down tomorrow no matter what happens. Either the emergency is over and we must prepare a completely different government resolution, or you will change your mind and give us two more weeks to convince you that we are serious. I don't have a problem with public control. It's easy to design things. But if you don't work in the government, if you don't work in the ministry, if you don't know how it all works, if you don't have an apparatus that works somehow... And I don't want to make excuses for that, because I really have to thank everyone who actually goes to the Ministry of Health all the time since March, and our soldiers and all the other armed forces, the integrated rescue system and our paramedics. So it's not that easy to say, that's what we're suggesting, and then it all comes down to it. There's a huge difference between designing something and then making it happen. [[15.10 hours]] I'd like to go with the vaccine. Of course, we don't have enough vaccines. Yes, there was some controversy now, AstraZeneca came in on Saturday, she wasn't delivered because some vaccines won't be vaccinated on Saturday and Sunday, but a distributor hasn't been selected yet. Yes, everything is a big bureaucracy, everything lasts. Of course, we don't have enough vaccines today, and I'm sure there's no problem that there's a vaccine on top of it or it's in the freezer somewhere, that's not gonna happen. Of course, the big debate is about this - I visited Hungary and Serbia and in Serbia the citizens have a choice. Serbia ordered 4 million vaccines from China, 2 million vaccines from Russia and ordered Pfizer/BioNTech, everyone can choose. Of course, outside European countries, they use these vaccines and, of course, there are medical agencies everywhere. We are clearly saying this - I have repeatedly said this and once again one of the anti-Babish shows on Czech TV has tried me if I want these vaccines to be offered to people without the approval of the European Medicines Agency. Well, I don't want it. I don't want it. Of course I don't want it. But this is about time. And, of course, if there was a chance to get such a vaccine and the European Medicines Agency, the one that approved all the vaccines, would approve it, then why not offer it to our people. We don't know if he'd be interested or not. But if some other states are doing it, and they're going to succeed, then, of course, everyone will be calling us names, why we didn't do it, too. And here I think the geopolitical interests, like Dukovan, shouldn't be. We should look at the vaccine from the point of view of safety, from the point of view of our people's health. And I'm not forcing anyone. Of course, we need the vaccine as soon as possible, but why not worry about it, why not ask. Mr. Jurečka here yesterday gave a big speech that we had a vaccine on offer. Yes, at a time when AstraZeneca refused to deliver 80 million vaccines to the European Union, we were repeatedly given - and not just me, but three other premieres in Europe - the offer of the vaccine before the start of the deliveries. Some company, some middleman from Dubai. Payment 50 per cent forward. Of course, the certification of the vaccine must be from Great Britain. AstraZeneca is also produced in India. So we have some trials, too. Believe me, if it were real, we would definitely use that option, but we can't afford it. Today, there are also various feces on the market, there are plenty of intermediaries who offer it. Of course, we have some agreements and we have to respect those agreements. So the information that was here that was even sitting on my desk somewhere is nonsense. If it were real, believe me, we would definitely use it. Just like we're fighting for the antipoints of the fabric. We're doing the best we can. So I don't want to hold up too long. I'm sure Minister Blatný and Minister Hamáček will say it better than I will. I just want to turn to our citizens and ask them to keep an eye on their health, their contacts, because the virus is really aggressive, it's a killer. If the emergency situation is not approved now, of course mobility will be significantly larger. And I hope that the public's response will be the opposite, that people will reunite and be with us, because no government can do it without working with people. They will and will last for a few more months until we are able to inoculate a significantly larger number of our fellow citizens. So thank you very much for that, and if the opposition decided to tell us clearly here on the microphone, under what conditions they are willing to give us two weeks to comply specifically with those three blocks, that means epidemiological situation, legislation and economic things, then of course we are ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u3	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, for his opening words. And so, as has been announced, the Minister of Health of the Government of the Czech Republic Jan Blatný will now speak with the addition of this introductory word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am standing before you repeatedly, repeatedly asking you to support the emergency situation, and I am repeatedly concerned. Today, however, the situation is different. I know that we are all tired of the duration of the pandemic and the duration of the belong to it. I know we all want to live normally, preferably right away. I'm sure we'll see about that, but it won't be long. The vaccination, as I think we all agreed, is what will eventually solve the matter. Maybe we're in the finish line now. At the end of March, the majority of the population over the age of 80 and in the summer most of the population will be inoculated. So it would be a shame to fall in the finish line. Whoever falls in it either doesn't run at all or runs at the last. I will use my role as a non-staker and expert here to give you reasons to support the emergency situation in a pragmatic way so as to be understandable to everyone as a doctor. Thanks to the fact that the spread of the virus has regained its strength, we will have to adopt significant restrictions from Friday on areas with the greatest concentration of the disease. It is easier for him to overcome our measures because of the fact that more and more of the virus is made up of its faster spreading variant. So it takes a small degree of non-compliance to spread further and quickly. The only possible response is thus not the same, but much higher compliance with the measures set. Any release of them is like opening the floodgates of large water. We can certainly go to the riverbank and demonstrate that we do not want large water, that we have the right to live without large water. But the great water will sweep us away, and it won't give a damn what political jurisdiction we had. So what happens if the emergency isn't extended today, he'll stop paying from Monday? Without emergency conditions, according to the expertise I have at my disposal, shops, services, museums, galleries, exhibitions, maybe gyms and swimming pools will open. The assembly of persons will not be restricted. It looks very nice, I'm sure we're all looking forward to it in principle. However, if this means that we are going to let go of the measures, within a short period of time - and according to our estimates about two weeks - the situation, which is now, for example, in the Karlovy Vary and Hradec Region, is likely to spread across the country. Gradually, most of our hospitals will be filled so that they won't be able to receive any patients. Therefore, the dispatch of bed care will collapse, because there will be nowhere to transport patients between hospitals. [[15.20 hours]] Probably won't even go to school because the situation won't allow it. The surrounding countries will start to fear us and close the borders. Gradually, most likely the commanders in each region will declare a state of danger and eventually we will all agree here again that an emergency is needed. In the meantime, however, many of our relatives will lose their lives. Coronavirus or other diseases. Doctors and nurses can't cope physically or mentally. Or we'll extend the emergency situation together today. Within 14 days, we will submit to the House, after consulting the MPs, a proposal for a pandemic law that I firmly believe will be - and I firmly believe - a slightly better regulation than the current situation. We will continue to work so that children can return to school in March. We will forget the contradictions, we will agree on a budget together, and we will continue to cultivate a system of compensation and measures. In the meantime, we will continue to vaccinate and continue to run through the finish line. We will do everything we can to ensure that the current outbreaks of the disease do not spread to the whole country, and we will closely monitor possible new mutations. So we will not be going to the shops or the hairdresser for some time, but there will continue to be places for patients to translate. People will die less and the borders will not be closed. Let us, therefore, consider today very well, which way we will go together. It is our joint responsibility, and I think we would lie to ourselves and to those who sent us to this House as their representative if we said otherwise. Thank you and I believe that you will decide according to your best knowledge and conscience. I promise you for myself that I will continue to do everything I can to improve the situation so that we can all know and want to talk and do what is best for the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u5	I thank the Minister of Health Jan Blatný and open the debate. First, Ivan Bartoš signed up for it with priority rights and Tomio Okamura will be prepared after it. So far, I've got nine applications with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u6	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Government, Mr President, I would perhaps start with what Prime Minister Babiš mentioned here in his speech. I wrote to him on Saturday that I would like to meet him with Vítek Rakušan. Why did I do that? To discuss an emergency with him? No. I met with him because I saw what was going on at the government meeting on Monday, that numbers are still growing and that the government is not going to do anything else with this trend at the moment. The Prime Minister here said no one brings concrete proposals. When I look back at the year we spent with the covid, every single proposal that came from the pirát, but I believe that even from other people from the opposition, was always in the context of the issues under discussion, was discussed and submitted to the government, at least for us, always complete. I will then give one example, the pandemic law, and if we want to talk about where it was said, the Prime Minister said today that he doesn't really know what to do with the law, but let's leave that aside. I met with the Prime Minister. I'm gonna take one thing I wanted to deal with him to illustrate how it works. I would love to be able to deal with these things with specific ministers, which we have tried to do so far, but the ministers will promise you a lot, maybe they have good will, but once this thing lands on the government, there's probably some seriously bad coordination that fits. I have come to the Prime Minister with one thing that affects the citizens of the Czech Republic and which has a significant influence on the spread of pandemics in the Czech Republic. I brought him the analysis we sent to Minister Blatný, who is based on hard data and facts. The question was simple: why, although the Czech Republic is in a lockdown, in a hard lockdown, which consists of a number of emergency measures - some of these measures may not be under emergency conditions, but we will probably come to that today - and I call it, Prime Minister, according to this study and according to this proposal the Čech cannot go into quarantine and do not want to go into quarantine because they are in solidarity with each other. It was here that your wife didn't report her husband on hygiene. And you know why she didn't report him? 'Cause when two people in quarantine end up at home, and everyone actually gets 50 percent of their salary when they're employees, or one of them's an evener who still has nothing after your vote today, those people won't pay your rent at the end of the month. They don't pay... they talk to me here... they don't pay rent, they don't pay the power. I've got a neighbor who, after two months of not paying his rent... he normally untied his contract, and the senior ended up on the street. He lived next door to the Riegrák, now he lives in charity. At least there's a charity where the hundred crowns - or how much it costs to spend the night - can put and not freeze out. That's what we're dealing with. Those are families who normally work, like having a kid at home for distance teaching. From the Austrian numbers, where the covide disease is at a high level, to a hundred percent - we didn't want to do that, we wanted 90 percent - so people go into quarantine because they know it won't destroy them, while the average contact of a person in the Czech Republic is three to five contacts on a person in normal operation - here in the Chamber of Deputies there are about more of those contacts - so we show the whole republic after finding the person a covid positive 0.8 and in the Plzeň Region 0.2. That's how much you officially report contacts on average. So if you get 7,000 positive tests or 10,000, you should expect about 20,000 people to be quarantined, and there are 5,000. So even though we have closed schools, we have closed business, the crucial thing is that people just don't get quarantined because they shouldn't have anything to live for, you didn't want to deal with it or you heard it from me for the first time. At the same time, Minister Maláčová has already submitted a government proposal, and we discussed this five months ago, that you listened to it for the first time since us, I don't believe it. Now let's see how this goes. Madam Secretary Maláčová brought this proposal to the House. There is a consensual suggestion that 375 crowns have been negotiated with tripartite. That's good. Most people in the Czech Republic do not... have a salary until - now I don't know what the average is, but to say - if we say that any limit is going to be 25,000 gross, then the net CZK 375 in 10 days will sort of equal it to existential costs. It's the man who brings home. But when a family who brings home more money, lives in more expensive rentals, they rent a car. Because it's not calculated from their income, the sick one, they're not gonna put the money together at the end of the month anyway. But the percentage didn't pass. Today we were able to approve - and in the Czech Republic there are a million people working at the IČO, we were very hard to get them in the first wave here... and thank Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Olza Richterová and thank the Minister Schillerová and perhaps the Minister Maláčová - so we agreed to give those people at least the infirmary when they are already at home watching the children who cannot go to school. In this proposal today, the House may have approved the ichares, that's not what happened. The fact is, then, Minister Schillerová will propose it to the government, the government will bring it here next week, and we will vote on it on Thursday. So that's the cooperation, the need to deal with these things right now: give us two more weeks. And we just don't handle emergency situations. We've been nine months... we've given you a plan back then, we're dealing with the future now. When I came to your house on Sunday with Vítek Rakušan, I gave you five elaborate things about health, about going back to school, we talked about the possibilities of testing, these are all specific things, these aren't some things on the press conference. I gave you a strategy this morning, even to our ministers, where there is also a vaccination strategy, where the parameters of the pandemic law are in the Bullets, so you don't have to read the whole thing, I don't want you to study the sections of every law until the last detail, these are all concrete proposals. So the potato-- and I'll use that word-- you're making it, Prime Minister, mostly you. I would like ministers who, if they sit down with you and say, well, that seems reasonable to us - we might spend a few afternoons with them at the ministry or by phone or at a meeting with Mr. Blatný - then they didn't raise their hands like this: Yeah, we know, but none of this is going to happen. So the communication that you're talking about here, and I'm waiting for most people to see that it's just the way you're drawing it, and the way you're saying it, it's not, it's not going to be real, it's not going to be: I've had a partner here, so I didn't have to talk to you, but I'm gonna do everything for you in 14 days. [[15.30 hours]] You were talking about guaranteeing your word. So I heard it going well x months ago, because the virus retreated over the summer, when you said, "I, I saved, take responsibility for everything." In the moment, when things got tough, you're already pushing each other's ministers. I would like to say that it is really important to take measures that have an effect that people are willing to follow. A number of measures, which were already announced in an emergency state and were also communicated, were short-term. Now, let's close down retail for a little while, people are gonna put their groceries away. But it takes months. I still remember Minister Prymula's school opening. If they didn't open up, some power plant would have to go off, I'm sure it will! Why do you make promises like this when all that matters is what data comes out the next day? Don't you have data predictions for months in advance? I must say, and we have not supported an extension of the emergency situation four times, that if the government declares that it is thinking of people, it is not a question of whether the fall in GDP of the Czech Republic in a given month was not double-digit, as some have predicted, as the Minister says. That's not what this is about. You must take the complex behaviour of people, economic reasons, social aspects, but also the clarity of how you proceed and what you promise to people. False promises are the worst disillusionment of these people. Schools were supposed to be solved in the short term - they're in the worst condition all the time. It's a matter of accessibility to the authorities. All of a sudden, hours in offices and post offices can't be cut short in the long term, these people just have to get there sometime. And every month, we're voting on this, and in fact, in that month, apart from negotiating vaccines, nothing major is happening from the point of view of what kind of apparatus the government as a whole has, how many civil servants have individual ministries, towards ordinary citizens, it's not so much happening. You told us this morning how you could show us letters. Do you think that Members in the Chamber of Deputies do not have hundreds of e-mails for their regions? That she doesn't go to the media - not cases where someone's talking, this lady wrote to me - that I don't get specific requests from people: Mr. Bartoš, where can we borrow money? I'm a single mom, I can't afford rent, I'm a freelancer, I had to sell the company. In the month of January in the Czech Republic closed the business, abolished 25 000 people, eveners. Only in January. Because it still looked like there was a light somewhere at the end of the tunnel. The light at the end of the tunnel isn't, and it's definitely not in an emergency condition. We are convinced, and I have legal analysis again, that the number of measures you have announced has not been justified and has not made any sense even at the moment of their publication. And I'm not talking about coffee in a cup by the window, carrying a yes or no. A number of measures, which are also mentioned by Minister Blatný, can be dealt with under the Health Protection Act if they are well declared. A lot of solutions are brought by the pandemic law, which presented 20. 1. in paragrafo the wording of Minister Blatný Jakub Michálek for pirát. We were talking to him yesterday at the meeting, it's been going on again, but his guy could've been doing it within hours. We do things within hundreds of hours when you send us a bill to vote on the next day. In my opinion, the fundamental problem is that the emergency situation does not address the quality of life in the country, it does not address the functionality of individual measures. It is indeed - I did not like the word - a blank check that allows the government to change some behavioral parameters from one hour to the next, but those behavioral parameters relate to tens of millions of people living in the Czech Republic. Therefore, and I will repeat it again, it is important to do these things justifiedly within the framework of a strategic plan, not just to solve finances or just a health issue, because the economy and finances are closely linked. I'll go back to the first example. It is the example of sickness, it is the example of Austria. Czech people are not worse, and I know that you may have an opinion, people must be strict, but they are desperate, they do not trust the government, and at the end of the month you have to put money on the table, pay bills, buy food, pay children - it is significantly more expensive on the Internet, because you can't pay for a shoe store - like winter clothes, and people don't have that money. So I take what Mr. Blatný said here: we need to focus on promoting health facilities. I think it's a transfer of the obligation to help hospitals for seniors, that these people are self-sacrificing. On the contrary, if there was financial motivation - when I saw that we were hiring 75 crowns in the hospital, I found it sad. There I think there is a way, really well to pay the paramedics and those in quotes volunteers, and a lot of things can be dealt with directly by good management. I don't see that in the government as a whole. For this reason, I think that the emergency situation as an institute used by the government for its decisions is not appropriate, and I cannot support it knowing that many of the things that were said here, including the assistance of the army that was called for the first time in July or June, were 68 soldiers, now there are 900. It wasn't under emergency conditions, so military assistance is still possible. We will help the government to address this outside the emergency. The Prime Minister said in the morning that no matter whether or not the emergency situation was approved, he would discuss with us not those for the pirát interesting topics, but those for the society of important topics. And this will continue in some way, because the common path from the crisis leads through consensus and allows the choice of the best ideas that benefit people. This is my request, and in conclusion, I would also like to address the citizens. Whether an emergency is approved today or not, the pandemic will not end on Sunday. It is important to care for hygiene, to comply with natural hygiene measures as far as possible and to use human reason for what is safe. I believe that the Čech are responsible, and that if the government gives them a helping hand especially on the economic question and wonders whether we can provide any other way than distance teaching, which is very difficult for children to crush and for parents to manage, so that we can manage without an emergency state institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. That was MP Ivan Bartoš. Now with priority rights, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have another request from the government to extend the emergency. At the outset, I will say that the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation, and I will explain in detail why and what our proposals are specifically. We in the SPD have never debached the situation, and from the outset we have proposed a concrete constructive solution to the situation. We have repeatedly proposed to the government since last spring to implement an amendment to the Public Health Act in order to ensure the protection of vulnerable groups of citizens and the functioning of the health system without the need for a general declaration of emergency. Together with this, it is necessary to amend two other laws so that the Administration of State Material Reserves can buy medical materials and soldiers can also help in health and social facilities. The relevant laws proposed by us can be adopted in a state of legislative emergency in practically one day. But it's like playing on a wall. The government is like deaf and blind, and it prefers to declare an endless blockdown. Finally, the Minister of Health Blatný publicly admitted last week that the government's applied method of action "has ceased to function" and I quote the Minister of Health Blatný. During the SPD movement, we repeat and call on the government to focus on protecting vulnerable groups, which are about 20 percent in our population, and the majority of citizens, about 80 percent who are not at risk, let us live and work only with basic measures. The SPD's movement also calls for the pupils to return to school as quickly as possible, as the damage that leaves the absence of presentation lessons on our children is enormous. Long-term distance education cannot replace the relationship of a schoolteacher and at the same time there is an overall reduction in the level of education. It is also necessary to relieve parents who are already at home with children for a long time. [[15.40 hours]] If COVID-19 tests are carried out before entering schools, we insist on the SPD that these tests should be voluntary. At the same time, a non-invasive method must be chosen so that children's collections do not cause trauma and pain and, at the same time, the tests are fully covered by the State. There are many such tests on the market today. Such tests need to be available on a voluntary basis for citizens, so that they do not have to refrain from painful tests. We also request the opening of skiareals because, on the contrary, staying in the fresh air increases immunity. It is also possible on the lifts, if it is a double seat, so only one person can go there when there is a quadruple seat, on each side one - you can keep the distance. It took time, but I think most people here already see that emergency status, general measures, and government restrictions on the freedoms of citizens and companies really do not bring anything. It doesn't bring really visible changes. On the contrary, the covid situation pointed out that hospitals suffer from a lack of staff in the long term, not just because of the covid. Government bans and regulations only deepened some of the problems, weakened the people's immunity, weakened the economy, and begged a large part of the most vulnerable trade and employment sectors, and directly contributed to the death of at least five and a half thousand people who did not have covid, but limited their access to healthcare. That's a very sober estimate, where only the deaths that were not caused by covid are counted, and 10 percent of those who died with the so-called covid, and where the Ministry of Health admitted that they certainly did not die from covid. But let's take a closer look at the numbers. In the year of the flu epidemic of 2018, around 113,000 people died in our country. According to preliminary data, 129,100 people died last year, 16,000 more. Some 12,000 people reportedly died with covid. Mr. Health Minister Blatný says only a third of the people led by the statistics of the dead died of covid. Let's try to be more supportive of the corona numbers, and let's say half of the covid died of, that is, 6,000. What does that mean? That 10,000 more people died in our country compared to 2018, but not on covid. Compared to last year, it is even 11,000 more people. So what killed these people when it turns out it wasn't covid? Experts who are not afraid to be unfair and unpopular are making this very clear. They were killed by covid panic and restrictive measures. Statistics are unbearable. Limiting freedom and hysteria kills far more than a virus. By restricting people's movement, you radically prevent them from accessing fresh air and, on the contrary, you stress them daily with both hysteria and fear of covid and economic restrictions and fear of social problems, so you clearly eliminate the natural human defense that is best able to cope with Coronavirus in general. Of course, this makes the course of any disease, including Coronavirus, worse. The worst part is that the more people the government weakens and gets into hospitals, the better the argument for the government to liquidate even more freedom and natural immunity. Not only are deaths not caused by covid, but also other common diseases, as people are forced to delay health care. The number of psychic difficulties has also increased to three times the number of rockets. Since the beginning of government measures around coronavirus, we have asked the government and health ministers for an analysis of the state of what they are dying of, who is at risk, so that we can then decide what measures and where they are best, so that we do no more harm than good. Our words only came after many months, and it's not good news. Instead of aiming for the protection of vulnerable and risk groups, which is about 20 percent of the population, the government has been taking large-scale measures for almost a year and the result is several thousand dead people not on covid, who did not have to die at all, hundreds of thousands of begging, indebted countries by hundreds of billions, the liquidation of education, culture and other very important areas of our lives. The situation in society has come to the point that the media are chasing and scaring citizens for covideo offences and scared people are telling their neighbors out of desperation that they walk without a drape or that they drink beer together somewhere. Is this the country, is this the state we want? To this day, we have no analysis to tell us who the virus is threatening the most. And this is essential that they can actively protect themselves at the initiative and under the supervision of doctors, or set the necessary level of protection to social and health establishments. It turns out that not all old people are at risk, and not even all so-called polymorbid, but, on the contrary, middle-aged people are also dying of seemingly healthy people who have only shown an advanced degree of diabetes in autopsy. I personally know the case of a patient who was on a preventive examination, which stated that he was supposedly healthy, was subsequently infected with coronavirus and died. The autopsy then showed a neglected lethal stage of diabetes. Neither the drapes nor the curfew saved this gentleman, but he was actually killed by the fact that the precautionary examination did not reveal the deadly disease that killed him in combination with the viral infection. And that's exactly one of the problems. People are at this time in a situation where thorough examinations and prevention are neglected, and the government still has no data and analysis for almost a year, to what extent restrictions and aids and from what extent they are already harmful. The analysis of benefits and risks is the basis of every management decision-making. I think the government, the media and we should all pour ourselves some pure wine. Every day when the government locks up citizens and companies, every day when the media and some politicians spread fear, it kills every day like this. The only solution is to bring the country back to normal and at the same time place emphasis on protecting vulnerable populations. Why, for example, hasn't the government already arranged for people to receive at least the minimum necessary, i.e. for a prescription of free respirators, disinfectants and vitamins? For many months, the SPD has called on the government to do so, and nothing is happening. I'm gonna stop by the vaccination now. The SPD movement insists on volunteering and we reject discrimination against those who do not want to be vaccinated. But for those citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily, the government should ensure a quick choice and a safe vaccine. Already today, it turns out that government-controlled vaccinations under the baton of idle promises from Brussels will not be able to inoculate even those citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily in many months. At that time, in a year, at the latest in two, there will be completely different mutations of viruses that will no longer be enough for existing vaccines, so the current government approach will run the circle again from the beginning. Certainly, it is wise that, after our long call, the government has finally begun to consider buying vaccines other than those which it graciously authorised but did not provide for Brusel. We also have an unsolved question from the government about which of those who want to be vaccinated voluntarily should be vaccinated first. Oldest people, or those who take care of them? Paramedics, or people from so-called critical infrastructure, where it's not just firefighters, but no one can do without heat, water and light. People who take care of our basic infrastructure are also absolutely unnecessary. If there's no electricity or water, the Republic won't work. I will now briefly comment on this morning's meeting, which was convened by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and his government of the ANO and ČSSD movement, so far with the support of the KSČM. The meeting was convened in the format that we participated in the chairmen of all nine political parties who are in the Chamber of Deputies. All political parties, apart from the SPD, proposed an extension of the emergency situation, wanted to negotiate an extension of the emergency situation. All political parties besides the SPD suggested it. But these other opposition parties, which there are five, or the so-called demo block, that means Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and ODS, had a condition - and you can read it now, for example, on the front page of the List server, there is a nice article about it on Novinky - that all political parties, including the SPD, must agree with the extension because they are afraid of themselves. This means either everyone or these political parties will not be in favour of negotiating an extension of the emergency situation. I was the only one who rejected this behind the SPD because the SPD has a consistent position and we say that we will not be in favour of extending the emergency situation, and at the same time we are proposing a positive alternative solution and we have been proposing it since last spring. This means that the government should focus on protecting vulnerable and risk groups, maintaining a health system without an emergency. We're clearly talking about three amendments to the law. I've already told them in my speech specifically, of course. We put it on the table. But the government doesn't want to hear it, and it wants to make an endless emergency. [[15.50 hours]] But what impressed me at the meeting was that the rest of the parties - clearly, the YES and the ČSSD movement are proposing an extension of the emergency situation, but all the other opposition parties - have made it clear that they want to negotiate an extension of the emergency situation, they agree with the extension of the emergency situation, but everyone, including the SPD, has to agree. And that's what I was looking at, and it surprised me that when it comes to breaking bread on a fundamental question, these opposition parties don't want to act on their own, they don't want to, they don't have the courage to say their own position, but they have to lean on the SPD's vote to have the courage to decide for themselves. Well, I was really looking at that. Of course, we have refused to extend the emergency because we are proposing a positive alternative on how to deal with this without declaring an emergency. I don't know why we should change our minds. The SPD movement has clear and firm views and we don't do politics in the style of the wind, there the cloak. And most importantly, the SPD has the guts to tell the truth. What can I say in conclusion? Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us not be deaf and blind and keep our common sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u9	That was Chairman Tomio Okamura. The Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček will now appear. Before I give him my word, the Minister of Foreign Affairs apologized to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from 15.45 until the end of the day. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u10	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, hello. It's the few times we've been meeting here, discussing an extension of the emergency situation. We're all getting tired. We're all getting more and more irritated. Likewise, our citizens are tired and irritated. We just don't like it anymore. We're tired of not living the way we used to. We're tired of being confined here all the time. We just want our normal life back. This applies both to us here in the Chamber of Deputies and to the last of our citizens anywhere in the Czech Republic. We all want the same thing. But it's not possible because there's been a disease here that we've had no experience with, and we've been fighting it for a year, the bigger one, the less successful one. But we in the Czech Republic are fighting it, our neighbors in Germany are fighting it, fighting it in Brazil, fighting it in Israel, fighting it all over the world. Everyone fights it the same way, using the same or similar measures. No one in the world, perhaps with a few exceptions, but given great specifics, has invented any other way to fight an epidemic than to protect the most vulnerable. Trying to get as few people as possible who die from the disease get infected. Trying to keep the disease as low as possible - nothing can be done about it but restricting human encounters. Trying not to put the state in a position at any point that it will not be able to take care of its citizens. Everyone's waiting for what might look like the light at the end of the tunnel, that's vaccination, vaccination that should tame the disease and solve the biggest problem. Every state fights it in its own way, but the methods are the same. It's got tension all over the world, it's got tension, it's got problems, because these measures are unpopular, they're destroying run-of-the-mill stereotypes, they're destroying things like family life, social life. But it's the same everywhere. Every state has some kind of legal order, and every state in critical moments moves according to it. The Czech Republic also has its legal order. We have a constitutional law on security, we have a crisis law. It is perfectly logical that in a situation like this, and I believe that we all agree that this situation is not normal, that it is not manageable by standard forces and means and by standard means, that it is simply extraordinary and requires extraordinary measures, so we apply the laws that are and which have been written for that purpose. This is what the Government of the Czech Republic is doing, and from time to time it has to come to the Chamber of Deputies with a request to extend emergency measures, because it is simply an extraordinary situation. We all agree on that. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic, as far as I know, is perhaps the only, at least in Europe, I do not know how in the world, when a simple statement of the fact that the situation is serious enough to be so serious that it is not manageable by standard means and therefore requires the application of crisis laws is subject to such a fierce political struggle. If you look in Germany, Germany has now extended the quarantine until March 7th, it has been valid for a year. And I didn't notice there were these kind of fights in the Bundestag. The Portuguese Parliament - every 14 days they meet, they all vote there, they go away and they let the government work because they know they're facing a huge test. With us, it's a political struggle. Its consequence is that the connection of the emergency is a dirty word today, and the connection of the emergency has become something that is the culprit. The emergency is the culprit, and the government is the culprit, because the emergency is holding. And when the emergency is over, we'll all be fine. That's the shortcut we're sending to our people. That's not true! We lie in our pockets and lie to people. If we don't prolong the emergency today, the disease won't go away. The disease will still be here, only those who fight it will lose the means they could effectively fight it, and they will begin to wonder how the goals and the ability to fight the epidemic will be achieved differently. Let's start working here. We're going to wonder if we can quickly adopt some other law - pandemic, epidemic - which will more or less be a crisis law and an emergency state, but it will be called otherwise. But everyone will be happy because the ugly emergency situation, the culprit of it all, just disappears. Then we'll do the work and figure out how to do it. If we don't work out, we'll hope that someone else will do it for us, and we'll hope that the captains who will face the disaster and the apocalypse that's coming at them will use everything they can from the crisis law and declare a state of danger, which is a milder version of an emergency. And as I spoke to some of the chieftains, it's a matter of about hours before the first county announces it. And we're going to be in a situation where most of the regions here are going to declare a state of danger, which states that there is a problem that is not manageable by standard forces and means. And we're going to pretend that there isn't a problem, because we don't have a state-level situation like this. Just let him deal with it in those parts. And the state that's supposed to coordinate the whole thing, and it's responsible for it, it's gonna be worth it, looking at the way the authorities talk about it, of course they're gonna try to help them, because that's our duty, but in a lot of things, they're not gonna have a way. I don't know how we're gonna answer the chieftain's requests for supplies from the state's material reserves on Monday. We do, but we don't, because we can't. Do you need fans from state material reserves? Buy them. The House didn't vote for an emergency. Do you need some new beds that drove away from Letňan and placed in state material reserves? We have, we don't, we can't, buy them. Do you need firemen to deliver vaccines or respirators? Call a cab, they can't, we don't have an emergency. Do you want me to go on? When the legislature formulated crisis measures, he was thinking of putting the strongest weapon in the state's hands in the fight against such things as coronavirus. We are perhaps the only state in the world that, when the epidemic or crisis is at its peak, it is objectively - it has never happened to us in history, in the spring or autumn, that there would be helicopters flying around the Czech Republic and transporting patients that Prague's paramedics loaned the Fénix or whatever it's called, and we drove people between hospitals that there would be hospital overflows here in two regions, that was not there yet. [[16.00 hours]] That means we're in the worst situation in the whole pandemic, and we're shutting down crisis management. Why don't we turn it off, see how it went down around here? Because it doesn't work because our numbers don't drop. In doing so, we are using the same measures as in Austria, the same measures as in Germany. We can talk about the degree of compliance or compliance, but we don't do any less from the point of view of measures than the Austrian government, except we're at it three or four times, maybe five times worse, and now, at the worst moment, we're going to shut it down. And we turn it off because the opposition says, well, it doesn't seem to work, so we'll do it differently. How do we put the strongest weapon in storage? Can we wait for someone else to do it for us? That's very irresponsible and terribly dangerous from my point of view. Why isn't it working? I have always been a supporter of sharper or harder methods, and it turns out that when the government deployed a truly balanced set of measures, the epidemic began to fall. It started to fall in the spring, started to fall sometime later in the autumn, and now for the third time, when we took similar measures, the epidemic first declined and then began to stagnate. Why? Because she's changed. We're not fighting the same virus as we did in the fall. I just got off the phone with Governor Půta. They have some experimental way of testing for British mutation - 75 percent in Liberec, 60 percent in Trutnov. The virus is just different! And if it's said that it's 40 percent more aggressive, it's logical that in quotation marks, we were able to push and push down these measures, the more aggressive we hold at least on current numbers, but logic would say, so we have to push or we have to find something to strangle the virus even more. No, no, we'll turn it off! It's gonna work out. It's gonna be a terrible mess! And I don't know if that's what you want -- you who vote or want to vote against the extension of the emergency -- to take this on your conscience. The government's gonna have to deal with it. The authorities are gonna have to deal with it. I'll tell you my scenario estimate for what it's gonna be like. In the course of the week, most regions in the Czech Republic will find that they have full hospitals, that they can't call people on duty - medications, etc., declare a state of danger, and then it's just about which one of the captains will be the first to ask the government to declare an emergency, and we're here again in a week. What's the difference? Several dozens, maybe hundreds of needlessly infected and unnecessarily dead. I just don't understand this thinking. I don't understand why we're looking for something that's supposed to work, but we don't know what if we have a standard crisis regime and standard crisis lawmaking that can be modified, but it works in principle. But since this government, which is unpopular, and we don't like it, we'd better turn it off. And God's will be done! You can't be serious! I would understand: so call a meeting and say no to the government, it's a political duel. But taking this hook through crisis lawmaking and pretending that by not extending the emergency situation, we're gonna figure it out? We won't! We're gonna get the country into incredible trouble. Germany will close the borders for us, probably Poland, Slovakia and Austria too, and they will look at us, so we can work this out. We will be a shining example of how this is not to be done, and we will enter into the history of crisis management as a state that demobilized in the middle of the war. That's what we're gonna do. We'll disband the army. We're in the middle of a war, so let's send the soldiers home and hope this works out! I don't want to escalate. I've told mine x times, and I know if I talk here for an hour, like Fidel Castro, I'm not gonna change anything, but I'd just ask all those who decide to make up their minds one more time. I understand you don't agree with who the Prime Minister is and how he does it, you don't agree with who sits in government and how he does it, fine, but we can't replace that government. Well, you know how to trade it, maybe for some paperwork, but that doesn't change the fact that the epidemic is here, it's going to be, and it needs to be fought effectively. We're doing everything we can to win this fight. I find it completely absurd and to some extent sad that when we went through all these stages: spring, autumn, before Christmas, when the hospital was really on the edge, and I said at the time that we were picking the corner after two rounds - and we did it. We did it because the paramedics did their best, and we managed to stabilize the situation. In that fall, we said: we still have to endure before the vaccine comes. The vaccines are here. Not as fast as we wanted, we're inoculating. Someone's saying we're in the finish line, and we're gonna shoot ourselves in the head in the finish line! This can't be happening! You can't drive like this! I'm going to sign X's reservations that you can have against government compensation programs to set something differently. So let's talk about it, but, oh, my God, let's not turn off the emergency situation, and in the most critical situation, let's not take away the strongest weapon for those who are fighting the epidemic! That doesn't make sense, and it's madness!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u11	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Let's keep going. Next, Mr. Ondráček, with the opinion of the KSČM club, is registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present before you with the opinion of the KSČM club on the Government's request to extend the emergency situation. It is still true that the reasons for examining the application are essentially the same: health, legal, economic, social and political. Before I get to the assessment for and against the extension of the emergency situation, I have to comment on the previous extension and non-compliance, or the requirements and agreements between the KSČM and the ANO movement. By my mouth, the KSČM presented the YES movement as the strongest parliamentary party five requests for negotiations to prolong the emergency situation. To remind you: return of children to schools, opening of retail and services, opening of ski resorts for setting clear rules, abolishing night curfew and discussing the necessary legislation that would enable the state to operate even without emergency conditions. After negotiations with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, we had to withdraw from the full opening of retail and services and from the ban on night curfew. There was a deal made on the others, at least that's how we felt about it. Even from the negotiations that followed, and then here in the House, it was clear that the government wanted to circumvent us in some way. Our requirement to open schools, if the epidemiological situation does not deteriorate significantly, was presented as opening schools, provided that the epidemiological situation does not improve significantly. But we all knew he wouldn't get better. So we have a situation where children of the first and second classes of primary schools go to school, but children of the third and fourth grade - or fifth grade - do not go to school. We have asked several times what is the difference between when these children have a delay, if there is a difference in the age of these children's contagion, if anyone can somehow prove it by numbers, because we wanted to know why someone decided: first and second classes, but it can no longer be third and fourth grade, when it was also said that if they are small classes schools, so that they could go to the whole first degree. From the material available to me from the Central Crisis Staff, it is written that children under 10 years of age - up to 10 years of age, that is, the whole first stage - have a disease rate of 4.1 %. Four full one percent! If we were to take all the children into adulthood by the 18th year of age, then the disease rate is 14.4 percent, as far as I can remember from my head, for all the children. If we still consider them children. Even in seniors, 16 to 19 years old, the disease rate is even lower, 3.6. At the same time, we would expect that this pubescent age will not follow certain rules. [[16.10 hours]] Opening or not opening the skiareals led to a public apology by Minister Havlíček at a press conference to the operators for creating false expectations in them. I hope that the operators will sue the State for damages caused by the government in this way. Where there is a higher likelihood of transmission of the disease, whether there are sparrows on the slope, lift or cable car, or in the public transport bus or in the shopping mall, maybe there are also sparrows on the roof. Only our government and our experts don't know. For the record, ski resorts are now open in Bulgaria, Austria, tomorrow open in Poland and, according to my information, also in Slovenia. Do they have any other germs in these countries than we do in our country? I doubt it. I just... maybe they have a better government than we do here. Well, and the necessary legislation? I'll save that for later, for legal arguments. So the government did nothing out of the demands, but mainly the agreements with the KSČM didn't do anything. I am not really interested in the excuses that the YES movement is only one of the parties to the government coalition. We tolerate - I would rather speak in the past time - we have tolerated the government as a whole, even sometimes with gnashing teeth. Some ministers are indeed the bloom of political parties that nominated them. Now, for every reason. Medical reasons. I've always left these reasons only to the Minister of Health. Even today, the Minister of Health described the situation to us and said some figures. However, we all see what the state and development is. The Health Department says she's not good. But why isn't she good? The last time, to remind you, it was on Thursday, January 21st, I said that we should demand statistical and expertly based explanations on why, when everything is closed everywhere, this development is. Apparently, there was, and there's been some mistake. Yes, the error is in the entire system of setting possible measures. The PES system does not build virologists and epidemiologists, but IT workers based on the mathematical model of expected development. Then he puts some kind of exception in it at the Ministry, and the whole model falls apart. We're talking about a dog, so let's say it starts limping. The original PES has so many puppies, and as the development degenerates, it stopped barking. All information from the Ministry of Health is descriptive, common data collection. From my point of view, the only measure offered by the Ministry of Health is the dumbest, and it's a general restriction on the mobility of all of us. I suppose it'll be over by Sunday. As a member of the Central Crisis Staff, I receive daily reports and thank you for that, because only thanks to this can we see the development and the follow-up helplessness not only of the Ministry of Health, but basically of the entire government. I'll give you a few cases taken from the health department's situational reports: 4. 2. Pardubice County, Pardubice Prison, 333 reported cases, the disease has entered the prison 16. 1. when he fell ill by a control technique of an external firm that worked with convicts from different blocks; 5. 2. Moravian-Silesian Region, Home of Slunovrat, Ostrava-Přívoz, 35 reported cases, occurrence of covid disease in 19 patients and 16 personnel; LADA Senior, 28 reported cases, disease concerns 10 employees, 18 clients; Home Přívoz, Frýdek-Místek, 41 reported cases; Central Bohemia Region, Vinařice Prison, 104 reported cases, 99 convicted and 5 employees; Home Blue Stone, 90 reported cases, 17 employees, 73 clients; 6. 2. Region Vysočina, Home for seniors Humpolec, 45 reported cases; Central Bohemia Region that same day, SeneCura Kolín, 39 reported cases, 36 clients, three times staff; 7. 2. Region Vysočina, Home for seniors Humpolec, 82 reported cases, 69 clients, 13 people staff; 8. 2. - I am almost finished - Karlovy Vary Region, Horní Slavkov Prison, 442 reported cases, 415 convicted, 27 employees; Guard Prison under Ralsk, 93 reported cases; Olomouc County, 9. 2., Marianna Orange Psychiatric Hospital, White Water, 48 reported cases, 43 clients, 5 employees. And that's how it would be possible to continue every day. Did you notice anything in common on that list? Yes, it's a facility of some kind where there are clients and staff. I apologize to my fellow prison officers for calling them staff. Yes, and that's the kind of staff or outside workers who probably dragged the disease into these facilities, and it's spreading avalanche inside. Why isn't the government able to provide regular personnel checks so that this doesn't happen? And don't tell me you don't know about this, since it's the day-to-day seduces of the Ministry of Health. The minister is failing, the government as a whole is failing. When we are here, but especially in the media, the Minister likes it most, the Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the Central Crisis Staff will claim that we communists who are already refusing to participate in this chaos will be responsible for the lives and health of the future infected, so I ask: And who is responsible for the lives and health of the infected in various retirement homes, nursing homes, staffers and prisons? Communists, too? Dear Home Secretary, with your rhetoric... Well, the infected and unfortunately the dead are coming to you. You are the chairman of the Central Crisis Staff and you are to design and implement the necessary measures. But for your, say, incompetence, we can only read the numbers in the daily seduces and basically receive only that information. I understand, of course, that you from the past are closer to civil society, and if you weren't the Minister of the Interior, then perhaps you would rather demonstrate for some of the measures, but now you may also like the position of President of the Central Crisis Staff, you may have started to like it, and maybe you would rather be closer to the repression that you so smiling and fondly often attribute to me. Believe me, I don't have a problem, and in the police, I've done much more to protect society and punish various criminals as investigators than many here in the benches. [[Mr. Ondráček has been silent.]] I'm gonna go a little more at peace. A month ago, I was with my colleagues from the OSCE delegation, and I came back from monitoring the elections in Kyrgyzstan. Kyrgyzstan is a Central Asian Republic, a circus of six and a half million inhabitants, I assume you all know or suspect. Of course, we were also interested in covid. So they went through a big wave last spring, autumn and winter waves like ours were no longer there. At the time of our presence all shops open, people could go to the cinema, to sports, to the market open, even one evening we went to the beer hall for a beer. Respiratory cover is not ordered, but only recommended. This recommendation is followed by the place and concentration of people. The PCR test cost us less than 600 crowns, in the Czech Republic 2,400 crowns before departure and I think 1,900 crowns after arrival. Someone seems to have a decent business in it. What, Minister of Health, I'm not saying that you specifically are, but while we're in the medical business, let's take a look at him. Why do we have so many patients in hospitals? Does everyone really have to be there? I often hear that it's not, that it's just business again and that it's patients who basically don't have a place to be. And this is an example of the clients of residential facilities. And I'm asking, what about family? Isn't the family able to take care of their senior for 10 to 14 days? Unfortunately, this is a phenomenon of the Czech population. We put our parents in residence facilities and forget that it was the parents who gave us the circus twenty years of their lives before we were able to stand on our own economic feet. Maybe they don't know this at all in Kyrgyzstan. There the family can take care of their senior, and there would be shame on the family if that were not the case. [[16.20 hours]] Let's go back to the economy. I think it would be good and maybe even desirable if the SAO carried out an inspection of some selected faculty hospitals and we could find the state of their cash register before and after the covideo. How many hospitals have gone from red numbers to black ones? Maybe this covid is a pretty good business. Just a little numbers to visualize. Compensation for one bed per day of the highest degree of intensive care is 59 064 CZK. For other intensive beds, the bonus is CZK 39 960 per bed and day. In this amount are for ICU beds the remuneration of staff, in the amount of CZK 200 per hour of care for the patient on the standard bed and CZK 500 per hour of patient on the intensive care bed. For a standard bed, the hospital will receive compensation of up to CZK 2,331. Hospital filling has been mentioned here. There are numbers in the Department of Health every day. Free beds, complete lung ventilation, free beds 803, 35 percent of the total state. ECMO 41 bed, spare capacity 48,8% of the total state. ICU bed overall for patients covid 486 beds and standard beds where they could be covid patients is 4360 currently available beds. I already mentioned the price of PCR testing, let's take another look at antigen testing. According to my information - if this is not the case, correct me, Minister of Health - the price of one antigen test is about 160 -240 CZK, my colleague said maybe even higher, according to the manufacturer and supplier. We import tests, world wonder, from China. If that is not the case, you can correct me again, Minister. As of 10. 2. was carried out in the Czech Republic by 1 929 926 antigen tests and a few more than 200,000 per week. Data from the daily health department report. Let's multiply this number by price per piece and we're at CZK 400 million. My question to the Minister of Health, or to the Government as a whole: Is there really nothing cheaper in the offer, Czech, where it could be done in the form of self-testing? I will answer for myself and here I thank my colleague Aulická Jírovcová for the delivery of the documents. There is also a Czech manufacturer on the market, which offers one test set, say, up to 100 crowns. I said, why isn't he addressed, why isn't he supplying? Did this manufacturer deal with anyone in the government? Specifically with you, Prime Minister, or with the Minister of Health, and with what result? Of course, you can claim that this product is not verified, it is not approved. According to the information I have looked up about this manufacturer, however, this manufacturer is to supply his antigen tests for the Olympic Games in Japan. For the Olympics in Japan, it seems enough, for a Czech citizen we import tests from China. He's a good cat. I see somebody's business behind all this, and a goddamn profitable business. And that's how I could continue to buy protective equipment and other medical supplies. Let me say, maybe you're lucky I'm not a police investigator anymore, because if I was, then maybe I'd take this place apart on screwdrivers and some of them would be pretty damn hot. I'm just surprised that no one's looking into this yet, but there may be obstacles on the employer's side for that, in a way that's rounded up, like when I was prosecuting and successfully leaving the President of the Supreme Audit Office. You know, if antigen testing is intelligently used in those places I mentioned a moment ago where community spread occurs, we'll prevent hundreds and thousands of people infected and sick. This testing could be in children's schools. I believe that even at the price of CZK 100, people would buy them themselves and voluntarily, who would finally like to go to sports or culture as spectators. Of course, you're still offering only one solution, and that's restricting the mobility of all of us. And then you're surprised that people have had enough and the regulations are ignored. And be glad they're just ignoring it so far, because the Czech man can do much more. I will return to vaccinations and vaccinations shortly. Until yesterday, 399 896 vaccinations were reported. There is no need to discuss that there is no meaningful and logical strategy for grouping into groups, since there is no basically anything to inoculate anyway. We communists say to you, Prime Minister, at virtually every meeting, do not rely solely on the EU and Pfizer vaccine. Of course, there are AstraZenec and BioNTech vaccines in play now. We tell you: see how Hungary, Israel and other countries handle this. But it's like talking to an oak tree. We can't, it's not approved by the EMA, it's not Němec and excuses like that. When they cut you up and cut you up by a third, or us, the whole Czech Republic, they fell words that are not commentable. And when the Němec, or the Bavor, began to speak openly about Russian Sputnik, suddenly you also woke up. You flew to Hungary looking for information. Yesterday also to Serbia, super good, but Sputnik is made in Russia. I understand that after all your comments - I deliberately say yours, because I don't respect him, I'm surprised you haven't fired the expert yet - so your Foreign Minister Petříček doesn't want to go to Russia. Of course, you can send in the Minister of Health or Professor Prymula, but I'm afraid - and I think we both know - that the negotiations must have some protocol. So now all we have to do is rely on Frau Merkel to see if Sputnik starts making licenses in Germany or elsewhere in Europe. Citizens will be citizens of the second and third categories, waiting for Germán to inoculate. Nice work, Prime Minister, ministers! You know, when you see this, say, Absurdistán on the air, sometimes I wonder if I'm gonna do it myself and bring a few dozen vaccines for myself and my relatives. They wouldn't even have to live to be helped by this government. Let's move on to legal reasons, to legal areas. I've always devoted myself to this area the most. Today I will be much more brief. I've always said my pros and cons. In the last performance on January 21, I said that I could imagine running the state without declaring an emergency if some obstacles were resolved. The ordering of work for students is already basically solved. The government's regulation is now nowhere. Students work voluntarily in many hospitals and facilities on the basis of an agreement. I think the need to settle the amount of possible monthly earnings and its taxation is being addressed. If I'm wrong, it's an appeal to the government and the relevant ministry to finally do something. You have a state of legislative emergency announced by the end of March, there is also room for Members of the relevant committees. I won't interfere. Legitimately resolved, at least so far here in the Chamber of Deputies, are also purchases for the Administration of State Material Reserves. Once again, I thank all your colleagues who voted in favour of the House's 908, who are handling this. This vote has shown an unprecedented consensus that if we can suppress our political bias and interparty squabbling when dealing with a particular problem, we can do so. Thank you again. Cancellation of the field hospital in Letňany - mostly solved, also use or return of borrowed material such as pulmonary fans or beds. The others, I hope, can solve the administration of state material reserves and government by operating resolution. The problem remains with the deployment of soldiers. The government has made their commitment into a battering ram in the form of media pressure on Members. Whoever does not vote in favour of extending the emergency situation, withdraws the army to barracks and exposes people to life and health. The Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the Central Crisis Staff are most often using similar sub-way outbursts. Here I would assume that he might know, or maybe in some way he wouldn't have to fabulate, that this is the case, or maybe he liked the position of head of the Central Crisis Staff so much that it needs to be called that. Sadly, the Prime Minister keeps saying that. That's somewhere else. We all know that soldiers can help the Police of the Czech Republic without emergency. It follows from Article 14 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Act 219/1999 Coll., on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic and Section 22 of Law 273 on the Police of the Czech Republic. In Article 14, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) However, the Armed Forces Act is also mentioned - and now listen to me carefully - that the army can also be used for rescue work in disasters or in other serious situations threatening lives, health, significant property values or the environment, to eliminate the consequences of the disaster. Isn't it necessary to deploy soldiers in a hospital or social services just the other serious situation that threatens life and health? I think so. In a personal meeting with Prime Minister Babiš on 20 January, I asked him for a legal analysis of the deployment of soldiers out of emergency. The Prime Minister has commissioned this right in front of me, but to this day, to this day!, I have not received any legal analysis. Why? I'm asking why. [[16.30 hours]] In the course of the debate on this, I also proposed to the Prime Minister that the government should take advantage of the state of legislative emergency and put forward a proposal which, if necessary, would prescribe the provisions of Section 14 of the Armed Forces Act by explicit indication that the military can be used to carry out work in health and social facilities, unless their forces and resources are sufficient to ensure the protection of the life and health of hospitalised and clients of residential facilities, for a period of time strictly necessary. Why is the government doing nothing legislatively in this area? To keep her at least the imaginary media ram of evil MPs and a brave army. Let's get some pure wine, though. It's nothing against those guys and girls in green uniforms. It's against some of the untruths that spread around them and things that are basically not to be talked about. As part of the fight against covid, the Prime Minister said 900 soldiers were deployed. According to information from the Central Crisis Staff, I have information that 449 soldiers are currently deployed. That's half as low as you said, Prime Minister, you. Repeat number 449. It's information from the Central Crisis Staff as of 9. 2. Today is the 11th. However, in direct performance, i.e. in hospitals and social services, even less is deployed, because there is also assistance in the overall number of routes. So if there was an end to the emergency situation, if it were to happen, and it had to happen, their withdrawal to the barracks - and again I say that I do not think that the government could do it or that it could not have solved it long ago - they would have to be replaced by someone. That's right. For the sake of completeness of information, however, it helps to track - listen also to the numbers - 380 police officers, 72 firefighters and several dozen customs officers. Firefighters also work in the collection teams, including logistical support outside the soldiers, in the number of 501 guys, 37 police officers and 73 firefighters help directly in hospitals, 63 firefighters help medical rescue services and 52 provide logistics for some overloaded crematoriums, 222 firefighters then perform disinfection of objects of all kinds. Those are the ones who need to be thanked every day for their work. I do not want to reduce that there is no need to thank the Army of the Czech Republic, no way. But the numbers speak for the numbers deployed. What are the solutions? If we end the emergency, the children will be returned to the schools as well. In that case, we have some number that I don't know and that no one was able to provide, the number of employees who had to stay home for treatment because of closed primary schools in 3rd and 4th classes. These will return to the work process and there will be no need to replace them - and then they will need to be replaced or replaced by just a few individuals or dozens of individuals who are themselves ill or in quarantine. Operatively, these can be replaced by volunteers if we pay them for this, and let us admit that the government has the resources to do so. And if it's just money, you can save it on tests and testing. In the worst case, they may also be replaced by members of the security forces, and even under the current law, the military could be called up to carry out police duties in mixed patrols. It would certainly be possible to involve voluntary firefighters and ensure wage reimbursement as in fires or the destruction of natural disasters. Dear government, who wants, seeks and finds a solution. Who doesn't, has a supply of excuses, slanders, and lies. The last legal problem is the operation of the state's key infrastructure. Again, it works on the basis of the responsibility and self-sacrifice of individual employees, and it is necessary to thank them again. That's all I'm gonna talk about, so some smart politician doesn't think about digging into it. Economic and social area. Once again, the effects on the economy, but especially on the psyche of the population, are huge, long-term unsustainable and ever-increasing. The total closure of everything is nonsense, claiming to be infected on a lift or an open cable car is as stupid as saying that I can't get infected in a crowded tram or a shopping centre. The government itself admits that retail is allegedly discriminated against in the public interest. Well, I'd really like to see the public interest. You simply destroy Czech businessmen and companies and record them to multinational business chains. It is widely known that every crisis makes the poor poor and the rich rich rich rich rich. You know I'm from our most beautiful mountains, which means the Giant Mountains, from the district of Trutnov, which will be closed by tomorrow. You have signed perfectly there, Your Majesty. Already today, mysterious men with briefcases full of money go there and say to the miserable strays: We know how much you bought, and we are now offering you here, take it, because next time this offer will not come. Punishable, reprehensible, and I hope that someday someone will also bear political responsibility for this. The government is not only unable to take meaningful measures, but neither is it able to enforce deliberate violations of government measures, but it presents another, see House Press 1152, which we were supposed to discuss today, but has not been included in this meeting. All of this leads to weakening the state's role, and it only goes beyond this government. A government that is unable to secure the participation of the necessary number of government Members to adopt government legislation, to be fair, this concerns the law from the workshop of the Ministry of Interior and the absence of its members from the ČSSD, including the Minister himself. But then let's not forget to criticize the police's work that he's not doing anything and he's just looking at it all. Even quite former colleagues I admire the fact that in this mess of commands, bans and regulations they are still oriented at all. And I'm not talking about finding any logic in them, which is basically impossible. I could mention a few examples. Shoe shopping, but impossible to buy shoelaces, shop shopping, when I buy coloring books, but I can't buy a paper bag. That would be for another five minutes, so I'll push it down so we can move on. And then there are the last reasons, and those are the reasons political. These are directly linked to all of the above, except the legal ones. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has always been constructive with one objective, which is to protect the population, protect not only life and health, but also the economic and social rights of man. In the long run, we have put pressure on the government to act. Often it has been futile, and it has been futile so far. After the last negotiations, we finally found out that this coalition government no longer needs us, does not want our advice, and ignores our comments, or even makes media laughs at them. Since we have no government responsibility and tolerance is closed only with the YES movement, we have decided that this time we will no longer support the government's request to extend the emergency situation. In my opinion, I tried to make it clear to you that there is no way that we have retreated from our objective of protecting the population, or that this is no political dispute, as the Social Democrats say, to take something out of the ANO movement. We are now convinced that there is a legal environment that allows an emergency to end. Thus, we give the minority government a chance not to always rely on KSČM's votes to better communicate with other opposition parties. I wish the government to demonstrate its executive powers, and if they don't have them, it would rather leave them to the captains on the verge. I'm sure they're already shaking on it. At the very end, let me give you one warning - for the information that came here, I heard it from the Minister of the Interior, but perhaps from other ministers. If you don't respect parliamentary democracy and want to declare an emergency immediately, that is, from Monday, personally, I will personally file a criminal report against each of you on suspicion of a crime of abuse of the authority of an official. The KSČM will propose a resolution which will be tabled at the end of the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, Congressman, that was your first speech in the debate. I'd like to ask you if you'd be willing to be the rapporteur of the House for this - you have to leave, okay, I understand. In that case, the President Petr Fiala is the next party registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am not in the habit of commenting extensively on what anyone has said in the closed negotiations, as a rule I am accustomed to the fact that everyone only communicates the outcome of the negotiations, and I will probably not do so now. Let me just say that what Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura said about the course of the morning negotiations and the attitude of other political parties to the SPD is simply not true. So the negotiations didn't take place, and unfortunately it's already written in various media. I think that we were not close to the agreement and that the SPD did not play such a key role as the President tried to tell the public. What is essential - and I think that is clear to all: these negotiations have not led to any outcome. [[16.40 hours]] But I came here to this speaker's desk not to comment on what anyone said in the morning at the hearing, and not even to blame others, or the government, for their actions. We've talked about this enough in the past few days, and we're talking about it repeatedly. I have come now to offer a way to show some solution that can be achieved in this critical situation. I am also based on the negotiations that we had on Tuesday and this morning, all the political parties, unfortunately at the opposition's call, and also on what was said in public space from virtually everyone or most political parties represented in this House. If I were to sum up these positions, I could probably talk about these six points. Firstly, there is some majority consensus in the Chamber of Deputies that most do not want to prolong the emergency situation in the way that this has been going on in the last 200 days, which takes an emergency situation, as it has been done x-times. Most people don't want to go on with this. Secondly, there is a majority in the Chamber of Deputies that the government has support for the necessary anti-epidemic measures. However, the government has not yet been able to state and justify measures that could not be taken without an emergency. Thirdly, there is a majority agreement in the Chamber of Deputies that the emergency situation should be an extraordinary institute which is used exceptionally for a short period of time, and that what we are experiencing now should be treated by another law, by other rules or by other legislative means. That's why we're talking about adapting crisis legislation. I think that's what most of us agree on. Fourthly, there is majority agreement in this The Chamber of Deputies on the fact that we want to gradually return children to schools, we want to return them safely, we want to return them permanently. We want to protect teachers, we want to protect them through respirators, we want to protect them with vaccinations. There is also a majority consensus, a majority opinion in this Chamber of Deputies, that the current government intentions in this matter are insufficient and vague for all of us, or for most of us. Fifthly, there is majority agreement, although not in detail, but in the framework of the Chamber of Deputies, that economic aid for closed or restricted activities and operations is insufficient and not enough systemic. And sixthly, it also seems to me that there is a majority agreement in this Chamber of Deputies that, as far as vaccination is concerned, today, in mid-February, we are not fully prepared for a situation where larger consignments of vaccines come in. We don't have a system well set up, and there's a lot more to do. honourable Member, honourable Members. That was some six circles that I am convinced of based on what I hear from you that there is a majority consensus in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not saying in every detail, I'm not saying always in a specific solution. But a fundamental, general, majority consensus on these six issues exists in these circles. I would call that a common denominator. I think the common denominator is quite extensive and offers an opportunity. And what is the government's response to this majority position? Well, her only answer so far is an emergency. So far, the government is just saying that everything will collapse from Sunday if we don't prolong the emergency, that it will be a disaster and so on, and that the rest of us will be responsible for it. But that's just not true. Only the government's idea of going to the House is collapsing, always putting a request on the table for an extension of the emergency, the Prime Minister usually scolds the opposition. Then somebody squeaks - communists - and we move on. At this point, we've been going on like this for about 200 days, and I'm saying for myself, you can't go on like this. We have an opportunity to reverse it, we have an opportunity to do it differently. Let's talk about something else, and not about the only answer to all the problems the government is giving us - emergency, emergency, emergency. Let's talk about it and let's talk about what people consider important, what they consider to be undersolved and what they consider to be poorly set, unprepared, unthought-out, undersolved, even most of this Chamber of Deputies. And let's not settle for any promises this time, but let's want and let's make changes together. We in our coalition - what needs to be done - summarized in our coalition SPOLU, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 in six steps, which we published, which we offered to the government to negotiate with the public. I'm not gonna read them here, and I'm not gonna remind them of them in particular again because I want to overcome all the party barriers. And since, in my opinion, the majority has been formed here, there is a majority consensus on what is essential of our proposals, so let me just remind you of the key things. To stop the emergency situation and to address the necessary measures by means of an adjustment to crisis law, crisis legislation. There's a majority consensus on that. To set deadlines and conditions for the gradual, safe and permanent opening of schools. There's a majority consensus for this. To adopt clear rules, simpler compensation rules for businessmen, small businesses, those that are closed or have limited economic activity. There is also a consensus that the government should negotiate with the regions, cities, doctors, publish a definitive vaccination project for a period when vaccines start to go to the Czech Republic in larger quantities and when the vaccination will open for hundreds of thousands - and hopefully millions - of people in a relatively short period of time. I think there are words here that one of the distinguished Czech scientists, biochemists, said: every week amateur improvisation can cost people their lives. Yes, that's it. Every next week, amateur improvisation can cost people their lives, and we have a chance to change that. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, this meeting is not about who wants and who does not want the inevitable measures against covid, because we all want it, we all want measures against covid. At this meeting, it is not about who is aware and who is not aware of the seriousness of the situation. Most of us are aware of this, maybe up to two, but the vast majority of us are aware of the seriousness of the situation. It's not about who, for example, wants to help paramedics have everything they need. That's what we all want. At this meeting, if we take the opportunity together to stop the emergency as the government's only response: let's just do it, let's just put an end to it now - and replace this one with a series of sensible measures, those for which, as I said, there is a majority and which most people want. [[16.50 hours]] Of course, it would be ideal if we did not force the government to take this step if the government had just joined the majority that was created here. And it seems to me that even at this point, the government was still showing these negotiations, relying on someone to eventually find someone, that eventually someone would move away, that someone would join in and move on as they had been. And that's why no really serious negotiation about the things I was talking about here was possible, and it didn't really start. And I'm suggesting that instead of prolonging the emergency situation as the only answer to all the questions that are here, we all start discussing something else together, about replacing the emergency situation. Replaced by reasonable, effective solutions that will have people's trust, based on facts, enjoy a wider consensus, and actually work. Today is Thursday, the emergency ends on Sunday, we can move on, and we have a lot to do in the next few days. For the Civil Democratic Party, I say that we are ready for such negotiations, we are ready to look for solutions, and I think that most people in the Czech Republic are ready for such solutions and are calling for them. It's up to the government if they hear this call. I repeat, we are ready for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Jurečka. By the time he arrives, I'll just introduce the House to the order. Then the President of Rakušan, then President Adamová, then with the opinion of Mrs Černochová, then Minister Zaorálek, then President Válek. If Mr Jurečka is not present, I will move his application to the end of the block. Now it would be my turn for President Rakušan, but I do not see him either, Mrs Adamová, whom I also do not see. So in that case, I will ask Mrs Černochová to present the opinion of the MP. I see that President Rakušan has already... [[Mrs Cernochová is questioning the President outside the microphone.]] Yes, yes, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In the introduction, let me only briefly respond to my two previous speakers, specifically to the Minister of the Interior, who said in the Chamber of Deputies that, in the event of an emergency, the border would be closed by the surrounding states and the Czech Republic would enter history as a country that demobilized in the middle of the war. If I admit that we are at war, which, in my opinion, is a very much overshot analogy, and in this context, there is no way to recall the recent comparison, also very absurd, Minister Maláčová with World War II, I can say with a clear conscience that ČSSD does not really go at all. Then I would have to remind you that our government is, in its chaos and in its incompetence, about the fifth column of the enemy, and maybe it doesn't even know it yet. On the contrary, the Czech Republic will enter history by how incompetent its government was, how arrogant it was, how it embezzled people's trust and what chaos it was and is capable of creating. So other than that, colleagues, colleagues. We are a country where generals shoot in the air during the war a volley of bans and orders, a volley of threats and blame others for their own mistakes, regardless of collateral damage. Minister Hamáček, don't try to throw your incompetence and mistakes at others. To the next speaker, Mr Ondráček, I would just perhaps point out a contradiction in the figures he mentioned here concerning the deployment of our soldiers. He mentioned the number 440. A total of 15 707 soldiers and members of the Army of the Czech Republic were deployed in 2020 - this means also the Military Police, students of secondary and high military schools, the University of Defence in Moravian Třebová, secondary schools, I could also mention students of medical disciplines in military schools. According to the information we received a week ago on the Defence Committee, at this point, on average, 700 members are deployed every day. So that number 440 doesn't add up, and I'm explaining it by saying that maybe those soldiers who hold cash or are within ten-day cycles, rotation cycles, the moment they're out of service, in a sort of quarantine, before they're back in line. But on average, the soldiers are deployed around 700. That concludes my entrée, which concerned the army and soldiers, and as the Prime Minister has called for us here, I will begin to deal with a matter that is also close to me concerning education. I know that many of my previous speakers have mentioned various problems that we have and will have to deal with, so let me say my point here too. I cannot imagine that regardless of the outcome of today's negotiations and the vote, the situation of closed schools will remain exactly the same after a year, and we will all be constantly looking at how the educational level of society is undoed, how overwhelmed parents, many of whom have completely different concerns at the moment, have existential problems. We all know what a difficult situation our teachers and other teaching staff are in. This crisis will have profound material and financial consequences. But the greatest harm is, in addition to the long-standing loss of society's freedom, a fall in education for the coming generation. Without education, our society has no future. Education is a condition for us to be able to deal quickly with the material effects of the pandemic in the future and to be a successful society. However, I am not sure that our government is sufficiently aware of this, because I feel that it has already accepted that online teaching will solve everything. This is a huge mistake. I know that we are still meeting until the end of February in this half format, on the other hand, it could be assumed that the area of education here will be the most frequently downsided agenda today. I am very sorry that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports is not participating in this meeting today and that the benches behind me have actually been very thinner. Thank you, Minister Schillerová, Minister Zaorálek, for sitting here with us and for not showing the arrogance that we've really been here longer than you've put forward, because you thought that extending the emergency situation would be easy today. We all understand that, in the current situation, it is virtually impossible for all children to return to school benches immediately. Nevertheless, I would like to appeal very much to the government, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education, to process the real concept of children's return to schools without delay. I have the unfortunate feeling that they have already completely resigned to finding solutions to the emergency situation in the field of education and letting things flow, as if they did not even realize the responsibility they have in this area as government officials. [[17,00 hours]] As mayor and councillor for the field of education of the city district of Prague 2, I constantly communicate with schools and I know that they face similar problems elsewhere. In recent weeks, our directors have recorded widespread and ever-increasing apathy or perhaps lethagia from the pupils' side, including class premieres. We can't ask children to work as keys and long, endless months still centered on computers and perform assignments without having the possibility of any normal social interaction with their peers. No WhatsApp, Microsoft Teams or Google Classroom will replace a regular big break with schoolmates. I therefore demand that the government provide children and their families with some light at the end of the tunnel to develop a concept of a return to normal, which will not only be real but also feasible. Of course, the concept I mean should include a specific date, not just an empty floscule about a possible return. If the Ministry of Education has a specific concept, then please let us all meet it immediately. Please tell Minister Plag. Like I said, I understand that it's impossible to let all the kids go to school at once. In this sense, I therefore ask that not only pupils of the ninth grade, which are often referred to, but also pupils of the third grade, be admitted to schools without delay. Please remember that these children were not allowed to go to school for practically the entire second half of the second class, they are now also long months at home, and at this age they really need to go back to the school benches. Similarly, their parents, who also sit at home with them for months and try desperately to load their lessons one step, two steps ahead, so that they can successfully tutor their children and explain the material to them. In connection with ninth graders, I would also like to ask the Ministry to quickly develop and publish a system of admission procedures for this year. You may think April is a long way off, we have half of February, but many of you have also done a high school exam, and maybe you'll remember how nervous you were. koneckonců all, this test determines four more years of student life and for many lifetimes. Not only do contemporary ninth graders not have the opportunity to prepare properly with their teachers and are undoubtedly behind in the past years, but they do not even know under what circumstances and how the trials will take place. It would certainly be possible for the Ministry to prepare several options for different epidemiological situations and to publish them. Stressed children and even stressed parents would at least be relieved for a moment if they had at least this clarity and lighted up at the end of the tunnel. Before I conclude my performance, I would also like to draw attention to college students. Here, like in elementary and secondary schools, the most suffering is the first years, because college entry is a huge change not only in the teaching system, but also in the formation of links between classmates. Everyone who's been through this knows it's not just about exchanging books, sharing things that have to do with teaching, but it's about just going out for a beer. This has not yet been experienced by contemporary classmates in the first year of college. Here too, it is necessary to find a way as soon as possible to restore normal teaching and give students space to get used to different methods of study and self-study and also to work together, because they do not even know each other yet. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that general online learning is in no way an appropriate way to educate and educate the coming generations. You know that, of course. It is possible that you are also the subject of various emails or, respectively, that you are the recipients of e-mails where your parents ask you to do the same as I do. A fifth of the pupils, even after a year of pandemic, do not have enough technical equipment or connections to attend the lessons offered by their school. If pupils have these technical means, it is not possible in this way to fully replace the presentation study, which is fully under the control of the teacher, where there is no need to constantly solve any technical problems or problems with the attention of individual pupils and students. In any case, I am not one of those who would think that online teaching is full-time, and after almost a year of practicing it, I even think that it must have negative effects on children, even on parents. Unfortunately, we will witness the decline in education and will come across a possible weakening of our competitiveness and standard of living. That is why I want to appeal to the government to finally wake up in this regard and find some way to get as many pupils and students back to their classrooms as possible. I'm begging you. A number of European countries allow their pupils to go to school despite the situation. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic belongs to the European top in the number of days that children spent on online teaching. We do not necessarily have to be best in covid even in this respect. I appeal to you and please, let us work on how to return the children to school - gradually, systematically, with reason, but let us return the children back to school. For our state and our nation, it is a condition of survival. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. I will ask the honourable Member if you would like to become rapporteur on this point? You will become rapporteur on this point, thank you. As we have some falls in the order, I will now call on Minister Zaorálek, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u18	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, there are a lot of words here, but I think the whole situation is best explained by one story and one event that will allow us to understand what's actually going on here. This event, which is a bit of a spin today and has already been mentioned more than once, is a meeting of parliamentary political parties at which one of the key representatives of one of the strong opposition political parties will say: we are willing to support the emergency vote, provided that all opposition parties do so. This is a very important moment, my friends. I'll explain why it's so important. because, let's say, some people were inclined to do this, but then there was a representative of the opposition party who said no! Let's say one of those irresponsible ones who said, "No, I'm not going to this deal. [[17.10 hours]] And let me think about what actually happened here. I would understand that every opposition party will come up with a proposal and a request and we will talk about it. But what kind of attitude is this: If all the opposition parties, we'll do it. I would like to remind everyone, fellow Members, that we have all made a parliamentary pledge here, in which we have said that in this House we will make decisions according to our conscience and consciousness. Especially in a situation in which we have almost 18,000 dead here today, I would assume that we are making decisions based on our conscience and our awareness of the vote that we have no time at all and that there is no situation for us to hide behind someone else in order to use such a type of argument. Look what we're going to do here - the essence is very clear. There is a belief that many people in this country are sick and tired of it. A number of people, say 30, 40 percent, say, for God's sake, let's get this over with! They're also voters, of course. And since we're all listening to this and hearing this, he'll be able to accommodate them. But the thing is, it's not just anybody picking up these voters. You see, that means if we all agree to do this, no one will benefit from it. But if someone's going to get votes on it, we just don't have a deal. That's how the debate goes: we're talking about voters. I get it, there's an election ahead of us. That's how we talk about how to do it so we can have voters. And I'm asking you if this type of debate that was going on here today in this House, at a political party meeting, is consistent with the situation in which we are. Is that what we're supposed to be thinking about so for God's sake, someone doesn't steal any of our voters? Does the situation allow you to think that way? Don't be mad at me, this seems absolutely crucial to me, this moment, because for me, it's absurd for the opposition to come up with this: if we all do, we'll do it. Then it really just sounds like an excuse. That's exactly the Werichův Fimfarum that's unattainable. And that's why it's not gonna support it. Well, of course none of you will admit that, but I'd like to make it clear. Actually, it's the voices, it's the voices. We're all talking about people's interests, we're talking all sorts of arguments here, it sounds like the current here. But in the end, this moment was important. There was no willingness here to say, "We're giving up on those disgruntled voices because we know it's important to hold the bass now." We're like a squad moving through the jungle to survive. Once it starts to fall apart, it's gonna go to hell. And all your talk is useless, my friends! The moment the emergency comes to an end, it'll be a signal for people: it's actually over. And within ten days, it will grow on intensive care beds. That can happen, you know that. And then I say to you, my friends, President Bartoš, President Rakušan, President Fiala, President Filip, Mr Okamura, Mr Jurečka, President Pekarová - those people in the ICU, how it goes up, it goes to your heads! And it'll go on your heads! And I'm gonna perform here and tell you again! When this situation gets worse, I'll tell you again that I told you. Because everyone who does this knows how serious the situation is. Or haven't you heard or read it? Or did you miss it? I am not a doctor, and I have read the essentials: the situation has changed. If by the middle of 2020, it was said that the virus wasn't mutating or that it didn't mutate more than the others, it wasn't dangerous. So today we know it's changed! That's a whole new situation. We have new types of mutations here, British, South African, we have Brazilian mutation here. And you don't even have to go to foreign magazines, because even in ours, you'll find that they are more contagious and even talk about having a worse course in the case of Brazilian and South African. Yesterday in the Financial Times, they said AstraZeneca didn't work, that they were dropping her off because it didn't work. Look at AstraZenecy and Pfizer's stock! Why do you think they're falling? This isn't funny! Our technocratic idea: We produce mutations (?) and we'll figure it all out - it's not that simple. Jan Hamáček here said we were at the top of the epidemic. You said it didn't work, the system. How do you know? I mean, when they say we have a British and another one... when it stagnates like that, maybe it's just the braking. Maybe we're slowing down a little, maybe it's inadequate. But if we let it go, it'll fly! And you say it's slowing down a little bit, so we're gonna shut down the brakes completely. This is crazy! You know, I'm not an epidemiologist, but just from what I'm reading today, I can see that this is a really serious situation. And at this point, you're acting like this. That's what I call an opposition who's lost confidence in me. I would let the trust of the opposition vote, the distrust of the opposition for you talking about voices in this situation. Yes, you're dealing with not losing votes. And even you don't think it's unacceptable to think like that in this situation. I am terribly sorry that in some Germany next door will be approved -- sorry, I have a hard time talking about it -- approved until March 7th, March 8th, and approved by such an emergency. [[It's difficult to pronounce.]] Everywhere in Europe, this is going on normally. Everywhere they can agree on this. And here in the Czech Republic, we're overreacting this way, and even today it's sadly stated that it's probably not going to work. And there's a threat that if we do anything about it, they'll file a criminal complaint against us. Well, that's the top, that. Don't you dare do anything about it! We'll send you all to court for this! [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] And why would we do that if we did something? We're doing this because we don't want these fucking people in intensive care! And is somebody threatening to do something to me? Where were we?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u19	Minister, I understand your outrage, but I must call you to order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u20	You don't have to understand my outrage. I'd like you to think about the role you're playing here. This is just crazy! And I repeat, and I turn to the opposition party presidents: It's possible that you don't like someone here, that you hate someone here from this government, you're sick of them. I get it all, I get it, it's part of politics. But in this situation, we can't project it into breaking an agreement that should be here, that we have one responsibility for people in hospitals and in ICUs. And now let's just forget about who makes or doesn't make money. We don't know that. We don't know what the month is, it won't be in two months. But we can't just let it go! We can't slow it down now. You really don't know exactly what's going on. That means if the system we have here isn't actually doing the best we can to prevent the dramatic onset. That we're holding people's levels at roughly the same level. That may be the maximum that can be achieved today in a situation where new mutations are growing. That means, you can't say that this is for nothing that sounds out here today, that it's not working. And you can't just blow it up now. And if that happens, I will repeat it once more: President Bartoš, President Rakušan, President Pekarová, who says that your constituents care more about how they stand economically than they do about covid. Because if they don't survive, they won't care about economic matters. President Fiala, who says this situation is a great opportunity. If you act like this, it's a chance to die. [[17.20 hours]] And all of you who are leading the opposition parties today, I remind you that your names here will be remembered every two weeks when the consequences of the release that you are preparing here today do not support the emergency situation that you have made a flosculi, because the emergency situation is nothing but an instrument that we are defending the worst, as many European countries do. You guys made a problem out of it, you're attacking him completely senseless today. I urge you to wake up and avoid the worst!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. Let's keep going. Now, President Válek, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u22	Thank you. I wanted to talk about something else, but I can't be unresponsive, and since I have priority rights, I'm gonna take advantage of it. I'd like to assure you, Secretary of Zaorálek, that I love you. If it helps you to hold me to assure you, I'd be happy to give you a hug. I love you guys. But I'm fascinated by how someone who wasn't in that room knows exactly what was going on, what was said and what we discussed. I have to say, that's admirable. I was in that room, I was sitting there in the whole meeting, and it's a complete lie, a lie, that we were proposing, or that we were talking about approving or not approving an emergency. [[Very strongly.]] We just wanted to, because we are aware of the seriousness of the situation, so that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health can clearly tell us what their plans are for the next few weeks, what measures they want to take and what they want to implement - I am also in a healthy state as a minister - and we did not know. We were prepared to discuss this plan and what we talked about, if all the political parties were willing to cooperate and discuss this plan, because if they are not, that is a problem. We want this to concern all citizens, we want all Members to participate in this and we really want to create something because we are aware of the seriousness of the situation that I would call Marshallův's plan for the desperate situation of a desperate country with a desperate government. Yes, we're in the jungle. Unfortunately, the guy who runs the squad doesn't have a buffoon, he doesn't know where he's going, he doesn't know what the jungle is, but he still wants him to move on, and we don't know where he's going, so we asked him about it. And he said he didn't know either, but now he's ready to be the leader of the group that goes through the jungle. So far, even if he's the Prime Minister, he hasn't been the leader of the group. And now what I wanted to say originally: the entire AntiCovid team is ready, and whenever ready, oppose the expert proposals of the Ministry of Health and discuss them. I wanted to say, and I didn't want to be emotional, and I didn't want to disprove what someone who wasn't there knows, and he knows it 100% and he's upset, and I wanted to talk really about facts and objective data. So I found a map of the spread of coronavirus in the Czech Republic from today and I found these two districts - we have been working with this map since the last health committee meeting, when it was said that the problem was mountains. It is recorded, it was said from the mouth of Professor Dušek, whom - and I am happy to say it here into the microphone - I greatly appreciate it, it was said from hard data and it was made clear that the problem is that people ride mountains, they break the laws, and therefore in the mountains or in those regions where there are mountains, there is the greatest incidence of coronavirus. It said, if I remember correctly, that, of course, even the British mutation is responsible for the spread going faster there. So, of course, we started analyzing the data because our AntiCovid team is not just Members, there are various experts, and we tried to find out why not Šumava and the other mountains did and why, when the mountains, it is the region of Karlovarský. I'm not good at geography, I think there are more of us here in this House, who have certain problems with geography, but yet I don't think there are mountains, and the region where the mountains are. We've been looking through multifactorial analyses for reasons that these two regions have in common. The only thing we have found is that there is a common factor and today's information in the newspaper about how many sick workers are in the JUTA factory, how many sick people are in these regions, the discussion with some municipal policies from these regions led us to believe that the only common factor - and I don't know if that is the reason - is that there is a relatively high concentration of Pendlers in both of these regions and those travelling across the border either from Poland to us and from us to Poland or from the Karlovy Vary to Germany. This makes these two regions quite different. We looked it up in other statistics, we tried to measure it somehow. It would explain why it's spreading, let's say, in the factories, why it's spreading in that place, because the idea that skiers who go to, say, the region where Trutnov is going, who go there and ski, that they infect the people of the region who work in the JUTA factory or in some other races, seems to me drawn - not as a politician, but as a person who works with the data that studies - much behind the hair. Our plea was, and it's just a little bit of a request - and it's an explanation that bothers me and what I think is bothering the opposition, Mr. Minister, Prime Minister - what explanation do you have that it's spreading in these two regions? It can't be a British mutation. I understand the mutations are tricky, but I find that very strange that they would just choose these two regions. Plus, the mutation is in other regions. So it's for the mountains? It's also weird when there's no mountains in one county and there's no mountains in the other. And if I can't answer those questions, that's a problem, because then all the measures are very unintended. It's the same as when I use ever larger nets that have ever smaller eyes to catch fish, and yet there are no fish in that pond. And that's what I think about this strategy is wrong, what bothers me about it, why this discussion is not professional and is still here - and don't be angry, it's not opposition politicians - is turning it into a political debate. This is really not a political discussion. This is a discussion about how the measures put in place by the government should be meaningful, have an effect, and the effect really has the result that the situation will start to improve. Let's remember the ten-day rule a few months ago. We will implement measures after 10 days to evaluate whether they are effective or not. Where did the rule go? What happened to him? Is it one of those that was supposed to come and not come? So, Minister, I really like you, believe it or not. Whenever you turn to me for help, I'd be happy to help you, but don't be angry to say anything about something you don't know about, you weren't in that room, and judging something that's not your cup of coffee, that's a shame. This really will not lead to a constructive debate on how to deal with this situation. That's a whole other way. And I would like to conclude by reminding myself as a man who has been dramatically shorter than you here: the government is a minority with the support of the communists. I understand she's lost her now. I don't know what the next phase of this is in the normal political world, but that's how I see reality. You, with the support of the Communists, have a majority. Ask them what you have repeatedly failed them for refusing to give you support. And that is the same reason you disappoint the opposition as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. And now, Mrs Valachová, with the opinion of the ČSSD MEP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, dear government, allow me to comment on the return of children to school. There is no doubt that we all want this not only, but we also want and ask that this start, even with gradual steps, but take action and that the return of children to schools be carefully prepared. [[17.30 hours]] Most of our schools are now closed and children, pupils, students are educated in a distance way. I quote, that's not the same thing as online. Only part of children, pupils and students have provided online teaching, which means what we will all imagine after a layman in terms of education, i.e. with a computer through video and sound, so of course this still, even though it is a year, does not apply in the territory of the Czech Republic. There are regions and municipalities and schools that rely even after a year on simple exchange of written tasks. It is clear that the situation in terms of school closure and the right to children's education is absolutely different from spring and that the year of the loss of attendance education already has and must have a fundamental impact on the quality of education for our children, not to mention the absence of social and ordinary human, friendly contacts and, of course, class and school climate, what we all know is that they are doing schoolwork, and frankly, added to that knowledge to what we call education. It is also important to say that informal education or also leisure and free-time pedagogy are completely reset. Even in this respect, there is no concrete plan to return our schools, our children's education to normal. Although I am about to present a proposal as to how we should and must, in my opinion, begin to move forward for the gradual return of children to schools and the renewal of the training of presentation, I consider it fair that, in the House of Deputies, when discussing the extension of emergency status, the situation of open schools, especially in kindergartens and special schools, should be quite truthful, but also in the case of primary schools which are open, whether first or second-class schools or small-class schools, that is to say, small primary schools, if you want to, up to 15 children at the maximum level of primary school. I consider it important to honestly mention from the available statistics of the IHIS, i.e. renowned and undoubtedly competent institutions, that the graphs that are processed by this institute clearly show that children attending kindergarten, i.e. mostly ages up to five years of age, are currently the largest number of new cases of conavir infection throughout the epidemic. A similar situation is the situation with primary school pupils who currently have a presentation course. Although the number of new cases is smaller than in kindergarten schools, it is also currently growing and reaching a peak over the entire period of the epidemic. On the contrary, for older pupils of primary schools who currently have distance teaching, the situation is stabilised, in the graph of the ÚHIS, which is published here, an example is given of pupils aged 13 years. What does that mean? First, in view of the current epidemiological situation, we need to respond to the situation in open schools, both in terms of the safety of pedagogical and non-teaching workers and of course of children, and to ensure enough protective equipment systemically throughout the country, not only as it has been announced today within the three most affected districts, within the territory of the Republic, within the regions of Královéhradecký and Karlovarský. This, in my opinion, is a debt. And it is clear that this must be corrected. The hand in hand needs to start step by step with the reopening of schools, which, as I say, of course, after a year is necessary to open up and return education to normal. I am concerned that they are completely unnecessary to ignore, say, our own initiatives, that is, those that are open at the moment, themselves from their initiative looking for ways to communicate with pupils, with parents, with teachers, how to ensure higher safety, reduce the risk of quarantine, repeat quarantine, occurrence of COVID-19 and really keep the presentation teaching in quality and way that we are all used to and how we, of course, wish as parents or grandparents. These initiatives, however, are partial. They concern some parts, such as private schools. Another situation is in Prague, another situation is in the outermost regions of the Republic. So there are small-scale schools, which have been organizing for several months, starting testing, gentle testing, as I say, after communication and parental consent under home conditions, based on the tests that Austria is currently using. Of course, I want to thank all these schools, directors, teachers and pupils for their efforts. However, I believe that we, as the State and the House, should respond by ensuring that all these good examples, which work in practice and ensure the presenceal safe education of children and the opening of schools, should be brought to national level and that there is a systemic renewal of presentation teaching first in primary schools, then in the final years of secondary schools and schools, and then beyond. So I will take the liberty of discussing small-class schools, teachers, school directors, parental initiatives, but also student organisations, school unions, teachers' associations' representatives, civic challenges, a plan that is discussed, which finds support for them, and which we could inspire in the next steps and no longer wait for. For most of them are tired of being depressed because of the fact that nothing is going on and that they are not part of any solution, that things, in this case, are going back to normal and can return to normal. According to the initiative of small-class schools, nothing prevents these small schools - I note primary schools at the first level, which have an average of 25 children and not more than 75 children and are under a thousand in the territory of the whole Republic - from gradually restoring attendance training under pilot testing. I note that many of these schools have already started them or started them in the next few days. It is a system where directors communicate regularly with parents and small municipalities. In this group of schools it is possible to adjust the sensitivity of testing to children, communication with parents, teachers and teachers. Small classes complete a survey between parents these days, according to the suggestion parents will test at home, in a special envelope the child will hand it over before entering school. This also solves the sensitivity of personal data and the utmost care and caution in preventing the spread of coronavirus. Unfortunately, COVID-19 is still here with us and mutating. This is what they do in schools in Austria. Our epidemiological situation is currently worse. It allows at least the start of piloting testing in a small number of schools and a new proposal for access to schools due to the already annual failure of the children's presentation education. At the same time, by opening small-class schools, we will provide fair education to children who, sometimes even after a year, as I have already spoken, colleagues and colleagues, in small villages and outskirts or mountain parts of the Republic, do not have the connectivity or technical equipment for online teaching or have objectively worse economic conditions. The right to children's education must not be on paper alone, especially when the paper is called the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Until 15 February, it is possible to provide protective equipment, respirators and other suitable and gentle test kits and other necessary materials for the first phase not only towards children, but also pedagogical and non-teaching staff in schools. Priority attention should be given in terms of the fifth step since spring to open kindergartens. Teachers here write on all sides - I think, colleagues, that they also address you, but no one is very excited about it at the moment, and cynicism scares me - diagnostic and educational institutions, children's homes, educational counseling facilities, as well as special schools and, of course, later open first and second classes. [[17.40 hours]] Step six. Continuously monitor and analyse statistics on the incidence of disease in individual age groups of children, as those already attending school, and decide to open third classes of primary schools even at the highest level of PES - first to third grade primary school is absolutely crucial for the success of children in education, it is called elementaristism, there are a number of colleagues and colleagues with pedagogical education and experience, surely they will confirm this - so gradually opened to schools according to plan, even in groups of pedagogical and non-teaching staff. Step seven. In cooperation with parental initiatives to prepare gentle and sensitive testing, implement a supportive and information campaign between parents, children and students. Prepare a solution to education for those children who cannot be tested. Here I point out that the freedom of these paths and that each of them should find their way - it is very important that they exist and that every child can make use of such a path and that every parent can find such a way. Eight o'clock. Ensure protective equipment, test kits and other necessary materials for the second phase by 1 March. Nine. On 1 March, after assessing the state in small classes, start teaching at the final years of apprentice schools, seniors and pupils of ninth grade primary schools, and extension to small-class schools and third grade elementary schools. Ten. Ensure a sharp phase of testing children, pupils and students in schools. Tests must be evaluated immediately and results can be processed in existing systems and databases. For high school and school students also go along the way of self-testing home-friendly tests. Eleven o'clock. The content of education in ninth grade primary schools and in the final years of secondary schools and educational institutions focus on key educational areas for subsequent practice or for continuing studies at university, which naturally coincides with courses from which apprentices and students pass final or graduation exams. Allow schools to work with the number of hours and with the subsidy of individual subjects. Twelve o'clock. By 1 March prepare a massive national plan to match the differences in education in this school year and for the following years, Graduate 2021+. Prepare the basic outlines of the plan including project financing, focusing mainly on: strengthening tutoring, individual and smaller groups; strengthening informal education with the help of school clubs, youth centres, youth organisations and sports clubs; providing exceptional schools in nature or summer training camps; courses at kindergartens, secondary schools and schools or employers, for new workers, graduates of the fields. Ensure financial cover for the above mentioned actions: extra hours, overtime, afternoon, weekend lessons, practice and more. Next step: courses in higher education focused on the levelling of knowledge. I note that during the last extension of the emergency situation, I warned that university and university rectors pointed out that outages in education last year lead to more complex subjects being transferred to other semesters and failing them in the current composition. This means that the number of unsuccessful students and students who cannot handle and leave college is increasing. Financially and organizationally support any adjustments to the semester. Many of these measures may have a favourable secondary economic effect, but above all, the maximum must be done to prevent children's failure and potential higher unemployment of the generation. Thirteenth step. Ensure real priority vaccination of pedagogical and non-teaching workers, voluntary, in education from kindergartens to universities, including primary art schools, special schools and other facilities. The aim is not only to protect workers' health and safety of work, but to meet one of the basic conditions for safe reopening and making schools accessible. 14th. Amendment of the school law so that directors can respond to changes in the situation in places and regions by combining presentation, distance and individual teaching. Special schools, various specific needs of children, and the gift of children require different approaches, as well as high schools. There, especially in practice. The law regulates Internet availability and technical equipment for online learning for children from economically weaker families. And the last, 15th step. Further, use the revised school dog based on the latest information of the Ministry of Health for the fastest possible opening of schools while respecting the evolution of the epidemiological situation and making more substantial measures for safe working conditions at workplaces in businesses and companies and to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including transport conditions to and from employment and the reduction of financial outage in people and families due to quarantine or disease, the so-called higher covid disease. In fact, we are already fulfilling these last things during this day, colleagues and colleagues, because it is clear that the return of children to schools is possible only if, in other parts of our economy, in this case, workplaces, we introduce a safe environment and also reverse what we are facing, and this is a deterioration of the epidemiological situation, especially in certain parts of the Republic. Those 15 steps, although it's a long list, give me, in my opinion, hope of bringing the children back to school. It is consulted by all key actors - both teachers and directors, parents and students - and each of them finds part of their position and opinion. I believe, colleagues and colleagues, that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we will ensure that these steps are met and we will help in terms of changes and individual rules, including laws, as I have mentioned, to enable our children to return to normal education as quickly as possible, to renew education in schools, to breathe again and to do so safely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u25	Thank you and we will now return to those who have not been present, so now President Marian Jurečka, will prepare President Rakušan, then President Adamová with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, two ministers, the other members of the government are not here, dear colleagues, colleagues. I confess that after the performance of my colleague, Minister Zaorálek, I will change the concept of my performance a little bit. He spoke very fieryly here about the fact that on Monday all measures will actually fall, that the government will not be able to do this to protect people from spreading COVID-19, that we will be responsible for this etc. Let me just remind you that we here for four months within the second wave of COVID-19, this pandemic, in every extension of an emergency, but also outside of it, ask the government: Change some parameters, change some senseless parameters of restrictive measures, or document them with numbers. We ask that the government encourage people's behaviour and financial motivation not to let people fall into a brutal decline in income, parents, singles, businessmen. There are tens of thousands of people who haven't gotten a crown of help since the beginning of the second wave. Unfortunately, none of our government members has ever responded to these subjects, requests, calls for action. I would have waited 14 days ago when the Communists said they wouldn't support an extension of the emergency, that the Prime Minister, a normal, judgmental, responsible, sane prime minister would pick up the phone at that moment and ask all the presidents of all parties: Come act. Let's talk about how we're going to deal with this situation. I'll have some idea, you tell me yours, and let's look for a solution. It didn't happen. On Sunday morning, I e-mailed the Prime Minister. So he called the meeting on Tuesday. Last night, he texted us three party chairmen, and I said again: I am ready to act. It makes sense to me with the participation of all the party chairmen. But that the Prime Minister himself came out in the past, in the past days and said: I want to find a common solution, it did not happen once! I'm bohužel so. So I also say to the members of the government, you are the team, and you are also responsible, along with the Prime Minister, for the way in which the situation communicates and seeks solutions. And now, in a matter of fact, what Minister Zaorálek said. What I'm going to say is important to all citizens who are watching. What are the specific possibilities of government from Monday when they do not go in a state of emergency, but they go under the Public Health Act or other laws? I'll take some of the law right here. So the Public Health Act, Section 68, clearly gives the authority to address the issue of protection against the introduction of infectious diseases from abroad, and here the government has the tools to create parameters for what measures the government should take when people travel from abroad to the Czech Republic. So in this area, the absence of an emergency will have no effect at all. [[17.50 hours]] Section 69 of the same law, limitation of contacts: once again it explicitly allows the Ministry of Health, or regional health stations to ban or restrict the contact of groups of natural persons suspected of being infected with other natural persons, in particular restrictions on travel from certain areas and restrictions on transport between certain areas, ban or restriction of festivals, theatre and film performances, sports events, other meetings and so on and so on. So once again, in this area of meeting people, there's a legal tool that the government can use outside the emergency. This means that the government may from Monday restrict the prohibition or operation of hotels, hostels, restaurants, bars, prohibit or restrict travel from certain areas, prohibit or restrict festivals, prohibit or restrict sports events, markets, close or limit the operation of health establishments, close or limit the operation of social services facilities and so on and so on including the regulation of visits to hospitals. Questions about separating beds, coordination and the like, which also came from the mouth of Minister Zaorálek. Paragraph 69 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply mutatis mutandis to the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the Wearing drapes, protective equipment can again be done according to this law. So if I'm going through this, then every judge has to ask himself, so what couldn't the government do from Monday? She couldn't exactly say that everything would be closed, she'd have to justify things very well, she couldn't issue a night curfew. But let's ask ourselves, are these activities proven to be linked to a higher degree of risk of spread of COVID-19? Secretary Schillerová says, "You know that, right behind my back. I will say: the most common place of transmission COVID-19 from the data of the Ministry of Health are contacts at the workplace. Over 30 percent of the spread takes place in meeting people at work. How does the government respond to this finding, this statistical finding? What measures did the government take to support employers? How did she deal with having protective equipment at work? What support did sanitary stations provide employers with in terms of methodological leadership? None, none at all. The government hasn't thrown any energy into this area of spread COVID-19, no action, don't be mad at me. I would very much like to hear and demonstrate, based on the government's data, what it meant, for example, when we released first and second grade, what it means to run kindergarten. What is the basis for the data, whether the situation has deteriorated? Because when we dropped the first and second-class wave here at the time of the second-class wave, I don't see any difference in the dates of weeks. I don't see any difference to this day. So, please, give me a good reason. I'm going to be subject to data criticism here, it's going to be believable to people, and then it'll be understandable when it's said that's why we're taking the measures, and because we've got it measured, that's how it works, and that's how it works. And then people will understand. I'll move on. The question of the use of the military, the armed forces, came from the mouth of Minister Zaorálek. The Armed Forces Act clearly states that the military can be used, among other things, for the rescue of disasters or other serious situations threatening lives, health and so on. Yes, there's no mention of the COVID-19 situation here, but it's possible to guide her. Here he may have a very strong competence and the opportunity to take advantage of these powers of the Chief of Staff, so the government may be there. She was there on vacation when there was no emergency. Similarly, we can say this in the case of the Fire Rescue Corps. But what's important and what I think is practically gone missing in the debate, and we've been pointing it out, appealing it, we've said it. The judicial government cannot take measures and solutions to the pandemic only on the basis of restrictions. There are no motivations, appeals, and incredible facts to support these things. There is, for example, a general discussion about how to increase people's immunity - that has completely disappeared in the debate. And if you look at other states, Austria, Germany, around us, where the numbers are significantly different. They haven't forgotten the very question that restrictions will join together to keep people from cornering, to keep them on their knees so that people, if they stay at home, accountable to their health, to their surroundings, because they either have COVID-19, or they're out in quarantine, don't fall so brutally in their incomes. It's not just about 10 days. There are families, parents, where it's happening, and they've been at home for a whole month, they're gonna lose 40 percent of their income, and many of them don't have any reserves at all. This needs to be borne in mind that there are tools that can be dealt with here, and the question is whether these instruments want to be used wisely. Because what the court said at the time, he said among other things: It is necessary to justify these instruments in detail, not to use them on a flat-rate basis, not to insuffocate them, but to use them adequately and with good justification. Now I'm going to allow myself to zoom in on what has been going on in the last 11 months or so. January 2020: We will not discuss anything with the opposition, we are ready for covid, we have enough everything, it will be a common flu. This was heard here from this counter in a situation where the opposition asked for COVID-19 to be dealt with by this House and the government. March 2020: As Prime Minister of the country, of course, I am personally responsible for all the crisis measures and take full political responsibility. If anyone doesn't have a respirator or a drape, I'll personally deliver it to him today. - Completely detached from reality in a situation where, as representatives of the opposition party - and I personally - we called on the members of the government not to delay the provision of the Central Crisis Staff in the then announced emergency situation by introducing measures and a call to the public: Sew your drapes. People understood it before the government did. June 2020: Flat restrictions will never be implemented by the government again, and it is not appropriate to scare the second possible wave of the Coronavirus epidemic. That's when we asked here at the House to learn from the first wave and begin preparing to revise the necessary laws so that there would be no need to go to the Emergency Institute. July 2020: All decisions about the virus were made by epidemiologists, by health professionals, not by the government. The government approved it, so if anyone is now saying that we should have interfered in OKD, then if anyone had, then they were hygienists. Those are the Prime Minister's words. July 2020: As I say, spend money at home, let's go on vacation in the Czech Republic. And then it went, "Hey, guys, I'm looking into a crystal ball, and I see I have to go on vacation. And the Prime Minister went to Crete. I'm saying this because there are examples. August 2020: Flat restrictions will never be implemented by the government again and it is not appropriate to scare the second possible wave of the Coronavirus. We shouldn't let it scare us, the state is ready to watch the epidemic in its fires. The plan is that every day we watch it, smart quarantine is watching it, I don't understand what the opposition wants from us, it's never gonna be a flatbed. The Prime Minister also rejected the proposal of an epidemiologist, Maďar. That was the second half of August. September 2020: I do not consider the situation serious, the Prime Minister answered the question whether it was time to acknowledge the seriousness of the rising numbers of the infected. I'd like to ask everyone to finally stop haunting the covid, as much as we're testing, no one's testing. And as the fall turned out, we all know that. We're in a situation where last year's business ended, our livelihood is the largest number of people in history. Practically 100,000 people either quit or cut off their business. It's 43 percent more than it was in 2019, and 65 percent more than it was in 2018. And only for January - only for January - it was 25 534 people. That means more than 120,000 people, dads, I've got families, lost my job, she's looking for her somewhere else. If words were true about the bombastic support and excellent working measures and how the Prime Minister says that businessmen send him e-mails that they are overcompensated, that would certainly not be true of these statistics. [[18.00 hours]] Yes, we're here in confrontation with the fact that we need to protect people's lives. I am fully aware of this, and this is very important to us, KDU-ČSL. But I have made it clear here that the competences of other laws are possible to address the situation from Monday. It can be dealt with wisely, the government has to think about it more, set it intelligently, and know how to justify why it is. And maybe that's the difference, because in the materials that we had here five times on the table when we were supposed to prolong the emergency, we couldn't find any detailed justification for the evaluation. Now I will allow myself to do what I have promised many people - because we have argued here about how tradesmen are doing, and I am here from the e-mail and from what people have written to me in Facebook comments, and there are hundreds of them, Madam Secretary, you can look at them - recall the situation of many people. I will start with the story of a person who has been doing taxi services here in Prague and with the decline of tourists last year lost his eleven cars, has to pay the entire remaining amount of Škofin company and is in a situation where he is in danger of losing his family's housing. He got into a situation where in the second wave due to your conditions he was not entitled to the crown of the compensation bonus. How are we able to help these people? Not at all. So far, the government has not been able to help these people at all. I'll take another story here. The story of the Chairman of the retail association, representing retail in retail centres and retail parks. He clearly points out that supply chains are suffering from secondary insolvency. Traders' debts to landlords are growing, and the situation is highly unbalanced. From the overall point of view, the landlords are fundamentally favoured against tenants who also have their obligations. So far, all COVID - Rent programs are filled with the payment of a part of the rent and the signature of the landlords' declarations that exploit the situation to negotiate new conditions. The subsidies, which are intended for Czech companies and entrepreneurs, end in their entirety in the accounts of multinational companies of landlords and also traders are buying a huge amount of seasonal goods. How are we supposed to answer these people, how are we able to help them? These people have closed shops, but when you go into any chain today to buy groceries, you meet there with the same amount of people as before. Why, under the conditions of some concentration of people on the surface, in compliance with all hygiene measures, disinfection, drapes, respirators, could these small shops not be gradually opened? Another story is from so many mentioned skiareals. They point out that they were most affected by the fact that the government's entire beginning of the winter season was pretending that the lifts would go, that the conditions under which the lifts would work would be found. Those people believed it during late November and December and put millions of dollars into investing in snow. These people have grounds where they can't wait for it to snow, but whenever it freezes, it has to snow. I have here the story of a ski resort from Vysočina, where they invested 1.3 million crowns in creating conditions for snowing, for making snow because they believed the words of Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, who said the lifts would start. And what's the situation now? They can only apply from Monday 15. 2. and the calculation shall be based on the costs of the two previous closed financial years, but at the rate of half of them. At half the cost of previous years. How are these people supposed to handle this? How are they supposed to pay the employees who are tied up there? Madam Secretary, would you be able to work and do business if another government said to you, "Will we pay you half of your expenses from last year?" I've been a businessman for 12 years, I started at college, but this is the liquidation of almost anyone who would be so brutally involved in the way of business. Yes, a good entrepreneur can bear business risks, but did anyone expect such an intervention in the context of their business risks? I don't think so. There's another story of the gastronomy employees who got a great report this week on Monday that the government will raise the compensation bonus and how great it will be. But now I will quote: "Unfortunately, on closer examination of the media outputs, we have concluded that Mr Havlíček wants to cancel a well-functioning program such as COVID - Rent, the success of which Minister Havlíček himself presented in his Twitter account, which would change the situation completely and the support would have a completely different dimension, unfortunately in a negative sense." Let me take another story where the businessman who says here: Years ago we introduced EET, we are going according to EET, so why is the Czech government not willing to compensate on the basis of EET data? It would be the first moment when the EET could really be used positively. It would be objective, rational. So please, Madam Secretary, I'm giving you an incentive here from this gentleman to consider that compensation is based on EET, tax returns. Surely the experts at the Treasury will know to calculate it, so that it is fairer than now, so that it is based on real practice. The Minister mentioned here the call of the Czech Health and Social Welfare Union. I got it, too. There are specific points which, of course, appeal to the government and also to Members. Here too, it is said that there is a need to decide on economic support to relieve people of their existential concerns about reporting risk contacts and subsequent quarantine. This is the only way to reduce the spread of coronavirus. If you were to invest effort, testing, tracking, financial support for people and financial support for employers, we could have been far better off from this situation. Only today was the adoption of a proposal that addresses it at least partially. But we said it as opposition a few months ago. I have another story here. A company that did not have an establishment in history and describes the situation here: "In this situation, the Ministry of Finance wants to deny us the right to a compensatory bonus, which is the only income for us, because we are not entitled to other bonuses. We can't draw Antivirus, we don't have employees. We can not draw bonus COVID - Rent, we do not have an establishment, we work from the beginning in our own premises. For bonus COVID - Tourism, Travel agencies are still waiting, but this bonus is rather funny. It is only 2,5 per cent of the sales of 2019. It's just a bad joke. And I could go on. There are people here who are really desperate. Desperate employees, their families, how they're supposed to handle this situation. I'm not gonna read the whole thing. I'd be happy to hand it over to you, Madam Secretary. You can read it, it's yours. I'd like you to stand up for these things, your ministry and your colleagues. In summary, it is obvious that a solution can be found to protect people's health in the Czech Republic mainly on the basis of the Public Health Act. It means a higher claim for the government to be able to justify this well from Monday, and it means a chance that where the risk of COVID-19 transmission is not greater than in current open-ended operations, those people will be able to gradually start working there. It gives hope and chance to gradually open schools. I would like the government to come back to the question of the form of compensation and the amendment of legislation. So please, nice government, don't be scared by the fact that it's going to get dramatically worse from Monday and everything will get loose because you need to ask yourself the question, if the measures you're describing how great it's supposed to work, so if it works great for the last four months, we haven't been in this situation that we're in. Why in Austria, why does it work differently in Germany? Why does it work completely differently in Taiwan? Why can't any of the members of the government answer that? What has been done in the Czech Republic to enable us to be inspired by these examples of countries around us? We ask the government to review these terms and conditions so that they give logic so that they can be built on data so that people can trust them. We are prepared no matter how today or tomorrow's negotiations will end, with the Prime Minister and his team, as promised today, to act and find solutions to help this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. First, I'll give you one piece of information for the record. Mrs Valachová did not speak with the club's opinion, but she acted with priority rights as the first vice-chairman of the club on behalf of the club's chairman. Now please, with the priority right of President Rakušan. Madam President Adamová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u28	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members of the Government present. I don't care about the atmosphere and the narrative we're in. Yesterday, Prime Minister Babiš, who told us the opposition, you will be directly responsible for the deaths of hundreds and thousands of people. Today, Minister Zaorálek here emotionally tells us, as he does, that he accentated the names of the various Presidents. It will be your responsibility when the disease curve grows in the next few weeks. I really can't believe my ears. We have 336 days since the first emergency. What's around us now is the result of this government's work. It is the result of the work of all the ministers of that government headed by the Prime Minister. Please don't artificially blame the opposition at this point. Do you feel that you have actually filled those long months of emergency in such a way as to bring some concrete benefits to people in the Czech Republic? Do you really feel that this situation, because we have an emergency now, is it satisfactory around us that people are following the measures that people are motivated to follow the measures you have taken? Do you feel that medical devices are now handling the way they're supposed to, and that you've created enough comfort and room for doctors and entire hospital staff to work? How about a decision in the Karlovy Vary Region of Minister Blatný not to accept assistance from Germany? Is that the kind of comfort you're talking about in the emergency situation? Do not place responsibility on us, because the emergency situation is just some framework, a framework for concrete work to be done to fill it with concrete measures that will work. And that's not how it happened. The Prime Minister here says he had a meeting with the opposition. I'll tell you what the meeting with the opposition looked like. The report that there's going to be a meeting came in at 7:13 a.m. The meeting was scheduled to take place in an hour. We didn't even know what format it was going to be, we didn't have an agenda planned in advance, and it was a meeting hours before the vote was due to extend the emergency situation. At this meeting, the Prime Minister tells us: I am ready to meet your proposals, guaranteeing by the strength of my personality that this will happen as soon as possible. Where has the Prime Minister been these past few weeks and months of emergency? When did the Prime Minister invite us to the negotiating table? Well, I didn't. And he himself explicitly admitted one thing at today's meeting: why would I have done it when I could have relied on the votes of the KSČM until then? That's how they worked with the opposition, so they communicated with the opposition. It was based on a simple parliamentary majority, which suddenly is not. Then, a few hours before the meeting itself to extend the emergency situation, the opposition will be convened to negotiate. We realise, of course, that the current situation is not easy. We know what the reality of hospitals looks like, but we're asking what's the way to fix it? And isn't it precisely the way to remedy that people are motivated to follow measures that have real meaning and which are completely verifiable to apply even without an emergency instrument? We have long warned that the basic philosophy is testing, tracing, motivation to be quarantined, investment in research, vaccination. Let's stop at the quarantine. Do people voluntarily remain quarantined? In Pilsen County, where they report some 0.25 of their contact? Why are these people doing this? Are they so irresponsible? Are we so different from our neighboring countries, or are they doing this because many people are going into quarantine would threaten their bare existence? He's just not gonna report his neighbor because that's what the neighbor's asking for. Where's the motivation that we've long suggested, some 90, 80 percent of the income for those who remain quarantined? Addressal assistance also to entrepreneurs who are not actually provided with any means of being quarantined. That's the solution. We need to motivate people, not just constantly show restrictions, tighten screws, threaten them with what else we're gonna fine them for if they don't follow. Did it lead to anything? It led to the state we have now, and the government is putting us in a false dilemma - either you support an emergency or terrible things are going to happen. Well, it's also a matter of whether the government will continue to cooperate with us if we don't approve the emergency situation. Many times, government members here have taken the captains into their mouths. We have four captains, one along with the pirate side. And we talked to them today, and they released their joint statement, which they called "We're gonna make it." The situation is not easy for them, certainly not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u29	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but we have recently discussed at the Bureau of the House that we will take more care of approved sanitary measures and government rules here, so I would like to call on all colleagues to avoid, where appropriate, moving without a drape in the hall or to consume here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll keep going. I'm sure the captains will make it, and you're saying, if you don't approve of the emergency, you're throwing your own captains into a state that's uncomfortable for them. We? What have you done for the captains these past few months? You've given them responsibility for vaccination, you've been publicizing them that they can't handle it logistically, you've been developing out of your own mistakes. That was your approach to the captains! You've even been throwing sticks at many captains with your work so far. I realize the situation will not be easy for them. They're gonna have to declare local emergency situations and all that. On the other hand, across the political spectrum, I feel like the captains are better managers than you. And I think that, finally, they are even able to cope with the situation in their regions, as they said today in a joint statement, even. Today, we have presented a clear plan: to remove the fear of testing and quarantine, to motivate people to actually stay in it. Fair is financial compensation, 50 per cent of the costs for entrepreneurs at this time, who have long-term closed trades, are already touching their savings, where are they supposed to take the remaining 50 per cent of the costs? Where are they gonna get money for a simple life, to pay their bills? It's a compensation game, not real help. Allow schools to function, start preparing plans to open and put local responsibility into this plan. There are regions where the pandemic course, such as the Zlín Region, is no longer as serious as in the Karlovy Vary Region. Why can the founder of schools not be able to slowly open the school facilities under precisely given conditions in co-operation with the director? Let us start dealing with the pandemic crisis locally, start dealing with it where it really comes from, and let us give competence to people who actually see the regions and local problems. What we see is a state failure. It's a failure of a state that, instead of effectively helping the local sphere, has complicated communication from the beginning. By communicating with the mayors, who learned the government's resolution, the government's measures were from the television screen, communication with the captains to whom responsibility was transferred without the government's sufficient assistance. On the contrary, it turns out that many times the government, in an emergency situation, has been throwing a stick at those who have tried to do something in the regions. The emergency situation is not the only solution to this situation. That's the responsibility. [[18.20 hours]] Of course, I would like to appeal to the citizens of the Czech Republic to be responsible, to implement sanitary measures, to wear drapes, to remain cautious, to respect the quarantine, to report their contacts. But on top of that, the government has to create conditions for them, eliminate fear of bare existence and give people a chance, give them hope, give them light at the end of the tunnel. And that has nothing to do with whether or not the emergency is prolonged. It's just an artificial construct. The Prime Minister here tells us that "We are responsible." Please, who didn't call the Central Crisis Staff when the epidemic started? All summer, what government has not called a meeting of the Central Epidemiology Commission as the only country in the European Union? It was this government. At the end of August and early September, who despised the numbers at the government's disposal, and maybe as the election was approaching, we just overslept the onset of the fall wave? Those are the numbers we consumed in the fall that got us to the worst countries in the world in statistics. It's not the opposition's fault. How can you afford to blame someone other than yourself after you've been doing this whole pandemic management thing for a year? You failed to implement the measures, but you failed to communicate tragically. The Prime Minister is acting, and he himself will say, "I will not impose on anyone, but if I have an appointment, I will be happy to accept it." He is Prime Minister of this country, he is responsible for the logic of his duties. And if he doesn't get it, it's just misfortune. After all, he was supposed to give us some suggestions, we were supposed to sit together for the last three weeks of emergency every week and discuss our proposals specifically, and not do so a few hours before we have to vote, which is still ahead of us today. Just chaos, chaos and deafness from the government. The bounty of finding any voices in this House always leads us to the situation in which we are. But I want to challenge the government to something. I want to call on her to deny the egotistical approach to the matter, regardless of how today's vote will go, that at this point, if you haven't agreed to it, then let the authorities try to do it without an emergency. No, on the contrary, I call on Minister Hamáček to start negotiations immediately on how to help the regions in this situation methodically, financially and technically. To show that we're able to manage this unpleasant situation and not let the locals down in it. This is a demonstration of a government that has a responsibility. Then we can prevent all the tragic endings that Minister Zaorálek was talking about. And I just want to point out that in the logic of the pandemic, if we grow in 14 days of numbers, those numbers are still from this time, Minister. Those aren't numbers that pop up by canceling emergency status as of Monday. The pandemic has some inertia. So operating sometime in a week, in 14 days of numbers, that's what the evil opposition did, that's just very fake. And that is an argument that will certainly not stand up and work. Let's take advantage, without emergency, of the 14 days to find a speech together. Yes, let's move on, today, tomorrow, Saturday, Sunday, Monday. Let us continue to act and take measures that will help. We have a pandemic law written here, we can discuss it within the week. It can replace many of its sections with an emergency, the extreme legal instrument created by the legislature to pay for a short period of time, and not a year, not a year and a half, limiting fundamental constitutional rights. Let us evaluate in that time which of the measures really made sense and which was meaningless from the start, because we never received such an evaluation from you, the government. Come talk to us. No one wants the situation in the Czech Republic to be more serious, more tragic, more dramatic than it is now. We merely claim that working to improve the situation can be done with good cooperation between all of us - governments, opposition, but also local levels, captains, municipal politicians - so the situation can be resolved. It can be dealt with very practically and can even be dealt with on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in a strong agreement. I just don't want the meeting that was tonight to be the final one. They won't support us, the evil opposition, it's her fault, so we won't be seeing her anymore. Let's change that, let's start talking another way, please. We are simply all talking about making people in the Czech Republic live better so that they are not restricted by more than they have to be, and at the same time to protect them. To motivate them to cope with the epidemic and pandemic with us. And that's where you failed. In explaining to people that these measures make sense. You compare us to Germany and Austria. Well, that's the difference. In those countries, government elites have managed to motivate people and convince them that the government deserves trust. Of course not all of them, that's in every country, but most of them do. And that's why it works there. It's not that the Čech are some other nation. But you just didn't inspire trust and motivation with the chaos and deafness to people's needs. And for the last time, don't blame us for how you run this year, how you run this pandemic, epidemic risk. I think people know very well how you're doing, but they're not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u32	I'm still sorry, one more procedural thing. I'm not gonna be happy with that, cos they might have to run to the O.R. I just wanted to ask for a procedural request, Mr President, on item number 3 of today's programme, on behalf of STAN and the Pirates, so that we can discuss the point in terms of territoriality and vote after 19 o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u33	Yes, thank you. That's a procedural proposal. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. [[Gong.]] I see they're coming. Of course, I'll wait a little longer for everyone to gather. After all, we have a clear deal. I hear an application for check-out. So I'm gonna ask you to sign up. For those who are coming, I'll ask them to sign up. I will repeat that we will have a procedural vote on whether or not we will act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms and vote after 19 o'clock. [[He awaits the arrival of Members from the foyer.]] The number of entries is increasing, but this is not yet reaching the number that is needed to enable us to vote. We still don't have enough numbers, so of course I'll wait. I see another group of Members coming from the lobby, so we'll wait for them to arrive. That should do it then. I can still see some colleagues coming. For all who have arrived or are just coming, I will repeat that the check-out has taken place and that it has been proposed that we act both in kind and in procedure today and vote after 19 o'clock. This concerns in particular the third, i.e. the last, point of this meeting. Because that's the law, we couldn't go on there with that point. Of course we can continue until we fall. I think we have enough numbers and we can vote. I believe it is clear what we are going to vote on. Initiating vote number 20. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 20, 73 Members and Members are registered, for 45, against 2. The motion was accepted. Thank you. We'll continue the negotiations. Now, with priority rights, President Adamová has been applied for. Then it is Minister Schillerová's turn, then Vice-President Filip, then Minister Plaga. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had long hours of debate here, maybe hundreds of them, and the situation is repeated periodically, because we always ask when we extend...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u35	I understand, Madame. There's a lot of noise in the room right now, because the colleagues who have arrived are leaving again, which I understand. We'll wait until the situation in the O.R. calms down again. I ask those who want to leave in peace, and those who want to listen, to settle ideally and pay attention to speeches... So, I think we can continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u36	Well, I don't really understand it, because I don't think we're talking about total banality here, but there's always been a debate in those negotiations about a specific government plan that wants to do with the emergency situation. One party, i.e. the opposition, asked, the other party, i.e. mostly the government, represented in a better case by one of the ministers, the Minister of Health, here and there, answered something but does not find answers to many things. And similarly, the negotiations we initiated looked very similar. It is really important to stress that we, as the opposition, initiated it with the Prime Minister and representatives of the government to discuss today's extension of the emergency situation in time. The first meeting took place on Tuesday, did not result in any outcome. The second, which took place two times today, on two attempts, did not lead to any result again, although it was clear from Tuesday that we would ask again about the plan. So today, two days later, there was no intention of what the government is actually going to do, what specific solutions it offers for the - at least by numbers - situation so far hopelessly. That's why we come up with the plan. This government is the cause of many of the things we find ourselves in today, so I guess it can't be the solution. You put people's lives and health at risk before the regional elections instead of putting in place effective measures in time. You just put your electoral profits above life and health. The drapes and respirator were about to be used within one week for the most risky group of vulnerable seniors, as Secretary Schillerová likes to say, grandmothers and grandfathers, so you sent them before the election too, then never again. And that is even though the situation has deteriorated rapidly but rapidly. Minister Zaorálek here today told us to wake up. We also called and shouted - even here - government, wake up! I'll remind you it was early September and we were ahead of a second massive wave of epidemic. What did the government do? The government not only didn't want to talk to us like it does for months, but in particular it didn't take the important steps that it had, and which it did, so it didn't just do it for the sake of admitting the seriousness of the situation. And that's what's been going on with us since then until now, and we all see that progress. Legendary statements from September that the law of gardening must finally be approved, perhaps everyone in this country has heard that. And what's the reality? That the law that was promised to us in September, not only promised, was even required by this House's resolution, even by your voices, that is, a crisis law, its amendment, so that we do not have to repeat the debate about the extension of the emergency situation, but we could do without it, the law has not yet been approved by the government itself, whereas the gardener has already moved the Senate here, and we have already approved it. Those are priorities, the real priorities of this government. We've been here countless times ever since. Since then, we have had many extraordinary meetings here, which we have often called upon as opposition. Since then, there has been enough time, not only to prepare this legislation well, to discuss it, but especially to approve it here. The reality is that it doesn't work. Nor can you cope with cursarbeit, nor can you cope with the fact that there is a pandemic law from the opposition. You're not going to discuss it. There is a compensation law, once again from the opposition pen. You're not going to renegotiate. You're not even gonna have fun starting this discussion. We constantly blame you for that, and we try very hard to explain to you the importance of these steps, but you are deaf and blind. Several important things have been said at the meeting today, and although I do not like to take information out of internal negotiations, I consider it not entirely correct, so in light of what situation we are expressing and what we are discussing here, I think it is important to mention some things. It sounded from the mouth of the Home Secretary that the emergency turned into a fetish. I agree with you. You've really made him into a fetish in your own way because you refuse to talk about individual measures, about their evaluation, on the basis of what fact you're making them, what kind of data are you getting, but all we're talking about is 30 more days, another 30 days, etc. What would we be standing here for another month, or maybe February 28th, if there was a shorter extension? Before the very same meeting and the same debate: emergency, for how long, but not about individual measures. Those are the keys to solving the situation. Whether or not people observe them depends to a large extent on whether they understand them, whether you can explain why it's important to follow them, whether you can say how you figured out that this would be a working solution. This is not even happening, even if we repeatedly ask you to do so. You know, the meeting that was going on today - and the Prime Minister may have tried to answer questions in many ways - was actually a discussion, a parallel discussion about two very different things - about the cart, he about the goat. It was exactly in that spirit. It is difficult to explain, and I wish you very much - not only to you Members, but also to the government Members in particular, because you are often shaking your heads when we talk to you, crouching your shoulders and giggling so differently under the guise, but also to the citizens, I would very much like them to see how these negotiations are about such serious things, where the lives of people are concerned with economic survival, where there is a really crisis situation like this, how such negotiations take place. First of all, the fact that we had to provoke him at all from the opposition is, of course, something that is completely incomprehensible. The government needs an emergency, but the opposition is trying to get someone to talk to her about it. The only thing that follows is that the government is not interested in anyone supporting an emergency. So if we are able to reach those doors that are locked for a few locks, then the debate is not in the sense: let's have a constructive solution as to how to go further, but it is in the sense: give us at least another fourteen days, yes, the situation is serious, yes, we have made some mistakes - although there will be recognition, sprinkled our heads with ash, but it is not the point to talk again about what we want - I repeat that this is a discussion over individual measures. TOP 09, ODS and KDU-ČSL have been working within the so-called AntiCovid team for several months to not only oppose and try to improve your designs, but she herself came proactively with our solutions. We have a plan. We're constantly offering this plan, every week, with a regularity that's already iron. We are simply those who are trying to address the situation for the citizens of this country for the benefit of all of us. Not the opposition, all of us. But you're always skeptical, deaf, and blind. And there are standard and very recurring problems that we knew from spring. [[18.40 hours]] We can still understand that there were big mistakes in the spring. It was a new situation, and I think everyone in the government would make some mistakes like that. We're not perfect, but we don't get to learn from them anymore. Typical example - communication. Not only communication towards people, but also to mayors, see the example of the closure of three cities into quarantine, but of not informing the mayors concerned. That's incomprehensible. That's something that happened last spring, and you're gonna do it again after a few months, almost a year, again. The mayors - and they are also from your movement - then complain that they only learn this from the government's press conference that they do not have any more detailed information about this. This is unbelievable. We're having the Department of Health spread out. It's just a personnel breakdown. Gradually, the experts who worked with the government leave, many people no longer want to have anything to do with you. Those who, until three quarters of a year ago, were blamed for those who are the largest capacities in the industry to help us get out of this situation. You've been putting one mistake after another all the time, and that's why you put us in that situation, unfortunately, all over the country. And now you're walking and you're saying -- you're the masters -- they're the ones to blame. Once it's the ones who didn't come when they were supposed to come. Then it's the citizens' fault because they don't follow what they're supposed to do. Then it's the opposition's fault, because it criticizes or whatever, put it in, you know, you say it. You've marked so many of these culprits, but you don't turn to yourself, you're responsible, you're sitting in that government, you're making decisions, so you don't turn to yourself. If anything, just in really small details, but the ability to say, yes, we need help from Germany in the case of a Cheb hospital, because it's just closer than transporting people across the country with helicopters, ambulances - we've all seen the images of a patient pushing into an ambulance in the cold, because they need to transport him to some other hospital. But instead of taking advantage of the help of our allies, our neighbors, we're doing everything we can to avoid admitting - or you didn't have to admit - that the situation is so serious, because that would be a confession. Then the promise of three doctors is fulfilled with almost a week's delay, yet not fully fulfilled. And these things, these particular examples of individual failures here, we can endure a lot, including vaccination, the only light at the end of the tunnel we have, because we really don't want to live in a permanent lockdown. No one really wants to get used to that, I believe you don't either. And yet here lies a few days in warehouses already imported vaccine instead of being administered to the most at risk, to those who are now entitled to it, to seniors over the age of 80, to risk groups. They are waiting, many are worried if the vaccine will ever come out, they are really worried about it. Go ask them how it is. Tell senior line workers what questions people have been calling them over the past few weeks. These concerns are expressed and then read and know that the vaccine in the warehouse is not used for several days, it is not administered, it does not reach them. I've got words for this, and it's hard to find words. I'm actually terribly sorry we had to get into this situation. I'm really sorry, because we're trying to prevent these scenarios, these disasters that are happening here right now. And the fact that you weren't willing and then even able to get support for an emergency actually says that this government doesn't exist anymore doesn't have a majority here. It was said at the meeting that it was also important that we also want to address compensation to affected businessmen, entrepreneurs, those who are now failing, who are at the bottom, so that we also need to raise our hand to change the budget. This was repeated by both the Prime Minister and Minister Hamáček. But here's another trap, and I'd like to spend some time with her, because that's exactly your logic of thinking -- come help us when we're totally in our shoes, but don't look under our fingers and let us know what it's all gonna look like in detail. Why we can't do this is logical. We don't have the ability to influence where all the state budget spending goes. In fact, if, in a situation where we are already in debt up to our ears and still in debt, we would certainly continue, we would have had the opportunity and you would have accepted, such as when we were discussing the budget, our amendments, it is a little different. But, of course, that doesn't happen and it hasn't. If we could see your efforts to rethink where the expenses were to go, it would also be about something else. And you could make those gestures. For example, we still have fare discounts in a situation where for seniors, the most endangered group, you are not able to provide free FFP respirators so that they don't have to worry about contagion, so that they can be in touch with other people so they can go shopping, but the fare discount is still there in the budget. Why isn't there a stop sign for civil servants any more? Why are we hiring more? Why don't you just take steps to stabilize those budgets, too? How can you actually say in February that we don't have money, let's talk about changing the budget? I wonder how this situation could have happened when we were just beginning, in the second month of this year. You know, at the meeting today - and it's a question for the Minister, he's not here any more, Minister Zaorálek is here... ah, here you are - Minister Zaorálek's name is here today, eagerly upset about how he's going to remind us every two weeks that we have the blood on our hands, so he announced this and so he took us in his mouth, to the public. We could turn that around even though the more than 17,500 victims that we have so far and that are going to go to the mercy of this government, we're going to start naming here. Are we supposed to do that? You can't seriously mean that we're going to carry on according to you, you're in the Prime Minister's rhetoric, responsible for everything that's going to happen from now on. I am here to highlight one example of your incompetence after another, one example of when you are reluctant to learn from the mistakes you make, reluctant to talk to anyone at all, including us, but the fact that we've provoked the negotiations at all - I would very much like you all to be on it today. I really wish you would. It wasn't pleasant. It was not a pleasant finding that we are in the hands of people who are clueless, who are nothing more than to prolong the emergency situation, but will not solve what specific measures will be taken in it, so it is actually enough for them. In three weeks, we'd be in exactly the same situation here, in exactly the same debate. And now that we're enchanted by this fetish, as it was called, with an emergency, let's say what we can do without an emergency. Sometimes it is mysticized again, information is used that is not entirely true, and it is therefore necessary to set things straight, what can be done under our applicable legislation. We would like to have legislation, and, as I said, a crisis law amended, which would allow some things to happen even more without an emergency situation, but you didn't make it, so let's just talk about the legislation that we have. It would be possible to continue to close schools, kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, or to limit their operation. It would be possible to order protective measures such as drapes and disinfection. It would continue to be possible to limit the operation of accommodation and catering services, to limit theatre, film performances and sporting events. As far as the army is concerned, the most frequently tilted argument: in the summer we were without emergency condition and the army helped out because the Chief of Staff may release soldiers even without emergency condition at the request of the cities and municipalities. That's what legislation allows. [[18.50 hours]] The captains and mayor of the capital can declare a state of danger with certain limitations. Regional hygienists can take extraordinary measures, such as bans on visits to social facilities and hospitals, restrictions on the number of persons at mass events, separation of persons, etc. What is not possible, it is fair to add, is the restriction of the free movement of persons and their stay in the territory of the Czech Republic. Yes, at 9:00 p.m., there couldn't be a limited movement until morning. But is this really what we need so badly? What will help to solve people's mobility, the situation? Are we sure that by paying for this, the situation has improved? I don't think so. Yes, imposing a work obligation, for example, to doctors and pupils of health schools, would not be possible, but according to my information, they are no longer used in health care as much as they used to be. And here it is possible to use them on a voluntary basis. They need to be motivated appropriately. The flat deployment of soldiers and firefighters, which is of a different nature than I mentioned, is of course a little more complicated, but the solution I mentioned already exists. Restrictions on the entry of foreigners in the Czech Republic: but in a situation where we are one of the worst, stable, long-term, one of the worst in the whole of the European Union, we are more at risk to others. So I think that this measure here really isn't what the evolution of the epidemic depends on in the future. The sum of why, in my opinion, the common practice of all parties in the House is important, is that the biggest problem in this country is that people's trust is rapidly falling. It's often downgraded here. People's trust is very crucial, so that they know why these measures are important, that they should follow them and that it is up to them. In the spring of last year, people showed enormous solidarity, a huge capacity for responsibility. But with the length of the pandemic, of course, fatigue is growing from all the constraints, and a huge number of people are also experiencing economic survival. The point is, if they just have something to pay their bills for, they'll have something to live on. We all need to ask them together for trust, so that we all together say that what needs to be observed today is simply to be observed. And that's why I find it a perfectly logical requirement that - even if for a shorter period of time - there is a consensus between all of them. Because the worst that can then happen, the worst that can then happen, is that anyone who makes use of the situation for politicization and in the spirit that can be expected, says: Look, do not follow it, it is nonsense, often fed by various misinformation, which some unfortunately also spread from this Chamber of Parliament, so it will actually be defined on this situation. And I consider that a huge risk. In short, a restoration of trust is important, and in this clearly the government is unable to progress, to improve. She was unable to do so, and the situation is getting worse. That is why I would do the following in the government's place: I would try to conduct dialogue, but a real dialogue, and lead it with all those represented in this Chamber, enough to stand together and put aside everything else that I think is really not appropriate right now. You weren't able to, you were willing to, and you're not. It's not up to us, we've called you to do it, repeatedly treated you at our request. You don't. That's just how the situation is, and that's a statement of facts. Finally, I would like to ask and call on the Government to lead these negotiations, to lead them on concrete measures, to revise them, to specifically remove bullying measures, to beg pardoned, to try to improve, even in the form of what I mentioned - free respirators for certain groups of people. We suggested it, by the way, early September. But repeatedly, not in the one-time manner you did only before the election. A number of such specific things: improvement in vaccination, negotiations with AstraZeneca - we have already mentioned how it is with several million doses that have been offered to us. I would like to know the answer from the Minister of Health, how things are going with this, how things are progressing on this matter. Let us continue to discuss these matters. At the end of the negotiations today, although we did not reach agreement on the emergency situation, we repeatedly called for this. I therefore call for this also here, from this place, again. Let's not just put ourselves on hold for 30 days, two weeks, one week, but for the measures, what restricts people's lives, but what also helps to cope with the situation. So we are ready for these negotiations. We have always been and I believe that every responsible politician, a government politician, must make use of such an offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. Let's keep going. Now, Minister Schillerová with priority rights. Vice-President Filip will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I won't talk long, I haven't prepared anything. I was just listening, and every time I thought of something or motivated something that the previous speakers said, I made a note, and then I crossed it off again, and I made another remark, so I'm gonna tell you what I have to say honestly. Emergency status is ordered under the Constitutional Security Act. This means a law that this House once decided by a constitutional majority. That means there was a consensus on him, the law must have been discussed for a long time, discussed and made sense. He was preparing himself for the situations we're in. Because we're, however it went down here, we're in a certain form of war, the worse that it's a war situation with an invisible enemy. So the discussion on what should be read by sections, which should, what can be replaced by one or the other provision, I think are completely odd. Or that we will meet here and discuss the pandemic law - so let us discuss it, but let us not do so in the background of such a huge problem that we are now in. Just to remind you what's gonna happen since Monday, when it ends, I guess it ends in an emergency on Sunday, if I'm right. From Monday, what happens is that retail stores open, all services open and curfews are lifted. I'm sure a lot of people will be happy about it, a lot of people will applaud you, but if you look at the opinions of experts, and I'm really not an epidemiologist, I'm not a doctor, I don't understand these things, I just listen, I read, I respect people. Today, for example, Professor Konvalinka, our famous biochemist, the vice-rector of Charles University, said that if an emergency is lifted - I quote from the media today - what is today in Chebs, will be in the whole country. That's what a renowned expert says, and I have no reason not to believe him. Finally, our experts from the Ministry of Health or the National Health Council say so. I've been listening to this for a few hours, and I'm sensing the disease, and now I'm sorry, I may not be speaking like the Treasury Secretary, but I'm kind of seeing it as a lesson in humility. And there's no way I've heard the humility here today. No matter how hard I tried. I've heard a huge performance full of pathos, full of empty words, empty gestures, as we are prepared, as we would do better. But there's one big flaw. You've never been in the situation we're in. And we don't complain, I take it with humility. And I take it I'm here now and I have to do - and my colleagues do the same - to do what's best for this country. And whoever shakes hands, and I'm not saying we're doing everything right - we're not doing it. Surely we could improve communication, surely we would do many things differently and better now. But they've just happened, and we're just trying to keep pulling the car around and adjusting to the situation. [[19.00 hours]] You're saying how you would solve this in education, but it's only now that the tests are on the market, where the students can take it from the saliva. She described here, I believe, Mrs Aulická, how her six-year-old child suffered trauma from the brush removal and so on. It is not very pleasant for an adult, and so on and so on and I could give you a whole series of such examples. It just unfolds at some point in time and we try to adapt to the real situation and do our best. You know, you always choose how they do it perfectly in Austria, and then you tell me how they do it in Germany. I'm sure they're doing a lot better, but they're also doing a lot worse. They meet and meet with the same problems as we do, so I just think you don't even know how they do it in detail, you're not there, we're here, and here we are, so I think it's kind of talk to me about nothing. I've experienced - I've been Minister of Finance for almost three and a half years, I've been Deputy Minister of Taxation and Customs at the Ministry of Finance for two years before, so I've already had five years in a row on these high floors, and I dare say I can judge something, hopefully with great, great humility - and I remember how EET politicized. I didn't understand it because, as an elderly tax clerk, I said it was such a good tool in 17 countries of Europe, but somehow I was able to accept it, just as I was able to accept the politicization of some tax stuff, I fought here for an exception that was being lobbied for insurance companies, and so on, meal vouchers, I could name it here, only 40 percent of the covid laws were written by the Ministry of Finance, so we have a huge experience behind us. And I've managed all of this, even hard, but somehow accept and somehow understand. Now I've got my mind set, because we're already playing about people's health here, about the health of our fellow citizens, and we're here to figure out what should be, quote the paragraphs, the pandemic law, that, that, that, look at that. And do we really care about health? Where did they fall, please, and if you'll enlighten me, or come back to the microphone and say it again, specific suggestions? Where did something quite clear fall, what happens next? So let's open it up, it's okay, it's okay, we're all happy, we're okay. And where was that, some kind of opinion? And I'll add one more thing, maybe it'll interest President Jurečka - otherwise I'll be very happy, he's not here, I'll study the problems if I have names, so I'll call these people as I do with my colleagues hundreds of people every day. But let me remind you one more thing: with the emergency situation, the compensation bonus that we're debating here ends, we know that. There's the MP's head swinging. Of course, I have a new law that I'm going to put on the government on Monday that comes here to the Chamber of Deputies, where we're already set up differently, but now it's going to end before the law goes through, and of course, I'm going to say it in my second breath, tie it to the amendment to the State Budget Act, because we have to take it somewhere, too. But I didn't hear you guys talking about how we're gonna get logistics in hospitals, what we're gonna do if we have overcrowded hospitals, if we have enough staff. I just hear 90 percent sick, 80 percent sick, but that's all about money. And if I left the money aside and said, yes, we're going to be in debt, and now it's important, do you realize, for example, the practical thing that we're going to put employment in jeopardy, we're going to put the hospital staff at risk? These are also topics that we have to deal with, that employers are against it, that we still have to balance all these things and take them into a bowl of scales. It's just not the practice and the practical life. And realizing these problems isn't about empty gestures, it's not about pathos, it's not about showing who did what and did it better. I don't want to talk long. I'll tell you one thing. Now, you, often blinded, forgive me for the expression, you are already clearly running an election campaign, and unfortunately, at this price, you want to take on the great authority of this government. But the government doesn't want her to usurp any power - to just take measures out of the nature of our... It was the hardest decision in my life to raise my hand to limit fundamental human rights and freedoms of people, the hardest. And we've always balanced and put weight on a bowl, if it's worth reaching out to these drastic measures, and we've said, yes, it's standing, because that's what our citizens' health is against. I appreciate the four captains for the ODS, and I say this here: Mr. Kuba, Mr. Červíček, Mrs. Mauritzová and Mr. Schrek, I do not know the last one. I appreciate that they are calling and today they have publicly called on Members of this Chamber of Deputies to sit on either side of the bench and this room, to prolong the emergency situation, to get them into an impossible situation. I respect them immensely, and I think that those who say they can do it - I will be able to keep my fingers crossed, honestly keep my fingers crossed, because this should not be a political struggle, here it really should always be considered at any moment what is in the game. I just want to say to the opposition without threatening without using strong terms, that's no use, I just want to say that it goes into a huge risk and goes on a journey from which there is no return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. And now, President Filip, then, with the last application with priority rights, Minister Plaga. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u40	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be quite brief, I do not want to prolong our negotiations, and, as has been announced, the subject of my speech is, in particular, the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has shown great patience and is well aware of how long the emergency situation lasts. During the last meeting in January, we asked the government for a relatively simple solution, which then narrowed down to bringing children into school. And I repeat once again: it was the start of the spring break on February 1st, and so the procedure was graduated so that it was not a burden for everyone and at the same time. The second point was mainly about organized visits to outdoor sports grounds, and it narrowed down to ski resorts, but that is the media shortcut that is part of our current life. If we take the other things Zdeněk Ondráček talked about, it is clear that neither of these requirements had any impact on the state budget, on the contrary, could have had a positive impact on the state budget. The very arrival of children in first-degree schools would mean that part of those parents who were bound to be at home with the children under ten years of age could go back to work and thus replace those who were currently in their jobs, such as soldiers, police officers, firefighters or other IRS files. We also knew we couldn't take it absolutely. And when we didn't grow up, or when we got the promise that the government would do that, we didn't expect the government to interpret it in such a way that they didn't have to accommodate us at all and that they wouldn't look for anything else. The long-term requirement of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia was that, at a time of emergency, which is indeed a serious intervention, as Mrs. Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová said, some laws will be passed. And I must say that I am very, but very disappointed by the procedure in particular of the Ministry of the Interior, because we have been discussing the draft law, the constitutional law on security since the summer or autumn of last year. [[19.10 hours]] The fact that the negotiations did not progress is not the fault of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I dare even say that there are no other political parties represented in this Chamber of Deputies. But the unwillingness at that time, which was provided for an emergency, fascinates me with the ease with which the Home Office gave up. Our goodwill, a positive approach has also been given by constantly fighting over how the government's budgetary reserve will be used, whether it will actually be used to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. We knew, and we said, when we discussed the state budget, that part of the funds that are in the government's budget reserve would be returned to the defence budget. But we didn't expect a return, which doesn't even concern what's being worked out on different sections than the Ministry of Defence section. It's just that I would say the stubbornness of some seems to me the real gambling with people's lives and health. We've been wondering for a long time if we should face the attack that's been medialized here, that we might be responsible for people's health and lives. I have already said in the spring of last year in the first parliamentary meeting to extend the emergency situation then, in the spring of 2020, that at that moment not only the government but also the Chamber of Deputies are responsible for the emergency situation. I realize that's our decision to extend it. But I expected that if we were to kidnap the responsibility, that we would all treat her like that, that it was our shared responsibility and that we would do something about it. But the activity was not intended for us to bear the responsibility together. Part of the opposition took advantage of it. Forgive me, as part of the election fight. The government did not perform the tasks that were given there individually during the extension of the state. And I think that - and now I don't want to quote any paragraphs, and they're not even part of the motion for a resolution - that the government has options. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia would never risk the health and lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. That is why, after a thorough legal analysis, we have said that if the government is unwilling to implement the resolution on a voluntary basis, to carry out its emergency tasks, so that there is nothing left to do but put it before the need to use other legislation to ensure the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, while being able to find more insight in a much wider group of residents, but also for those who are currently responsible in individual regions. The call for decentralization fell completely, and even the attempt to centralize the health service by deciding on hygiene requirements in some corner of the Republic from Prague seemed absurd to me. So in the end, we were forced to expose the government to a task that she didn't want to do voluntarily. We decided, after due consideration, that we would no longer prolong the emergency situation. We understand that this means a great deal of burden for the government, but we also understand that without the acceptance of individual obligations, more people cannot be achieved. We therefore note that the Government has tabled a proposal to prolong the emergency situation, but we want the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution that it will impose - or request the Government to carry out specific tasks. The first specific task is to present an amendment to the pandemic plan. Not the pandemic law, we don't require it, but the pandemic plan. This means specifying precisely new infrastructure enterprises which are essential for the further fulfilment of the tasks of combating pandemics. It is not a bill proposal, it is not necessary for us to discuss it as a law, for example, in a state of legislative emergency, but it is a plan that the government will have at its disposal to clearly name the businesses that are part of the critical infrastructure that it needs to combat the pandemic. The second task that we ask the government to discuss at its next session and submit to the Chamber of Deputies a draft law on security, because the proposal here, forgive me, is really six months. I understand he's currently on the Government's Legislative Council. But it's none of our business where he is. It is a matter of government, and it needs to be discussed as soon as possible and presented to us, and we need to discuss it here in a legislative emergency as soon as possible. Thirdly, we ask the Minister of Health to lay down general conditions for the measures of individual regional health care stations to declare measures under the Public Health Act. I know he's got it ready, and I thank him for what he did in his office. I believe that county sanitation stations are able to do so. Not all of them... Not all of them, in my opinion, work at a very professional level. They would say not entirely thought-out changes in the structure of the sanitary services of the Czech Republic have been marked since 2008/2009, when the government of Mirek Topolánek canceled the district sanitary stations, we lost, for example, laboratories and other things. Yes, it was a gross mistake that no government could fix after that. And so what's left of the sanitary service is needed to make it possible. Personally, I believe that the differences in individual regions show that the primarily responsible approach in each region was much more effective than the central decision, because the specific regional sanitation station will respond to the specific situation in which the region and the specific measure will also be better accepted by the citizens of the region and cities affected by this. Fourthly, we ask the Minister of Defence to discuss with the Chief of Staff the measures that he may take in his commanding power in favour of remaining members of the Army of the Czech Republic in health care facilities and social care facilities. It's his jurisdiction. My colleague Ondráček even quoted the law. So I don't think it's necessary in the resolution. But the general request of the Chamber of Deputies to the Minister of Defence is quite appropriate. It's under his authority, it's possible. We don't have to lose the capacity of those who are there right now, and he can do it. Fifthly, we ask the Minister of the Interior, the Chamber of Deputies, to take the measures that he can take under the integrated rescue system to ensure implementation, and in particular control of the measures taken under the Public Health Act. Because I believe that some of these things are not finished, it is unclear that some of the components of the integrated rescue system are overloaded and others are not working. [[19.20 hours]] I do not understand the system of prosecutors, and I do not want us to interfere, so that this is not seen as an intervention of legislative power in the power of executive or judicial power. How is it possible that there is a challenge at the demonstration on an open poster that the Minister of the Interior should go into gas? I haven't noticed yet - and I asked the Minister of Justice about it yesterday - if the state's attorney's attorney's office under the law of the state's attorney's office has already begun criminal prosecution against an unidentified perpetrator. Nobody wrote anything about that! In doing so, it is a call for physical destruction of the Minister of the Interior. If it doesn't matter to the Minister of the Interior and the Vice-President of the Government, it doesn't matter to me, because the call for violence, the call for physical disposal of anyone should concern us, we shouldn't let it go. But the unwillingness to go into conflict with those who do not intend to respect their most basic obligations under the law, to respect even the most basic ethical rules, is overwhelming and seriously against my mind. I believe that only that we will be able not only to say what anyone has to do, but also to control how it is implemented is the most basic procedure that we can achieve change. I would like to see that the pressure that we are now creating as the Chamber of Deputies on the Government lead the government to do things that are not fulfilled here in the long run, and that citizens will accept more measures that will be taken both by individual ministries, governments, but also at regional level, at the level of regional health stations, at the level of, for example, armies, etc. I have drawn up a motion for a resolution for each club one at a time so that we can deal with it. I'm handing it over to the rapporteur right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u41	I thank you, Mr Vice-President, and the Education Minister Robert Plaga will speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is hectic and has been going on for many months. In the course of each event, it is good to stop for a moment and remind yourself, at a time when there are often arguments that there is nothing going on in education, the government is not trying to take any precautions, so it is good to stop and recapitulate for a moment, so that it can be seen that these steps are happening, so that it can also be seen that when the promise of the Minister of Health here last time was made that he would try, if the epidemiological situation allowed it, to return pupils to schools, so that it was not a setback. But when you take the log, from the beginning it was declared that if the situation improves. And the situation at that time... the plan really was that the number of people in intensive care units would fall, that the covideo patients would fall at the rate that was estimated, and then the plan would be feasible. This means that, in relation to the demands of the Communist Party, there has been no double-crossing, but that an epidemic that neither you nor we, nor anyone else in the world can influence, even if it wants - we can all influence it by our behavior, but not by any political decision - has developed differently. And that's why they didn't take the steps considered - the return of seniors, the ninth graders, the smallest children. These are all things that I, as Minister of Education, and not just me, but most people in this republic would like. And when we talk about whether or not there are priorities, and whether we don't have them like the House or this company the same, then the priorities of going back to schools that appear here in different modifications, we have been given from 30. 10. After we closed the schools and we had to move forward because of the dynamics of the epidemic to the fact that we also closed the first grade of primary schools, so we set the priorities, they are the same and each one of you who gets off here has them in a similar way: the return of the first grade, the final years of primary and secondary schools, the return of practical teaching in secondary schools. We don't have to talk about the reasons. Each of you knows them. It's a long blackout, and each of us would like those kids back. When we look at what we've been able to do in that time: Government 9. 11. approved a crisis amendment to the Higher Education Act, which regulates the terms and conditions of admission procedures, teaching, exams including state can be held remotely in higher education institutions. After all, you approved it here, approved it by the senát. As to how else in this pandemic crisis to organise entrance exams in secondary schools, it was announced in the autumn of this year, which is still in November. At the same time, the government preferred pedagogical workers and voluntary and free antigen testing began 4. 12. and lasted until 18. 12. for the category of school staff, for pedagogical staff. Today we have antigen testing after three days free of charge, but first we really tried to take care of pedagogical workers, those who are in our schools. As far as the vaccination strategy is concerned, 29 already in the vaccination strategy. 12. 2020 in the developed version 2.0. were in the 1B category and there are still pedagogical and non-teaching staff. So again, a lot of the things you're saying are already worked out. And I understand that in the information that changes after hours, it may have slipped out of your focus, but it's true. It's written down, and we think about the workers. That means going back to school all the time is a priority. From the point of view of the Ministry of Education 100%, from the point of view of the Ministry of Health it is also one of the things they do, but of course on their shoulders lies the whole pandemic from the point of view of medicine. 5. 10. has been distributed, or the government has decided that nearly 3 million respirators will be taken to kindergarten, primary, secondary and special schools. Not that that's enough. No one said it would be enough, but note that within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes CZK 14 billion goes to the operating expenses of the schools to their founders - the regions and municipalities. And this is the part of the budget from which these funds are to be taken. But it's clear, it's a non-standard situation, and that's why the government agreed at the beginning of October to send nearly 3 million respirators. With regard to the adjustments to the graduation exams, at the end of January, given the situation, we proceeded to adjust the graduation exams - and we published after discussions with associations - how we would proceed to this area of the graduation exams as well as the final exams. So if there are questions about whether we have the concept of coming back, we have the priorities of coming back from the beginning of the fall wave. As far as admission procedures are concerned, we have published how the entrance exams for secondary schools will take place. And as far as the debate on universities is concerned, of course, there is distance learning the easiest in comparison to, for example, the smallest children, but the key thing is that there are things that can't be dealt with remotely. That is why we are discussing some scenarios of return with the Czech Rectors' Conference, with the Council of Higher Education. The epidemiological situation is not good. Yes, you'll find a lot of mistakes on the way the government is going through - communication and stuff. Yes. But if you look into any European country, you'll find them there too. And just as the government's faults are on the side of each of us, because we can all do better. But you're right, the government has the greatest responsibility. But now for the important thing. When we were talking about antigen testing, when we were talking about the tests that are going on, I have to say with full knowledge of the scientific world and the universities that scientists themselves are surprised at how quickly the vaccine developed, how diagnostics shifted and how new types of tests appeared. Thanks to this, today we can have a debate about non-invasive types of antigen tests, but also PCR tests such as Czech provenience, which are not the less pleasant way of collection, but are non-invasive, friendly in quotation marks and allow us to consider return scenarios using antigenic testing and PCR testing from saliva in our schools. That's the testing we're now dealing with on the Central Crisis Staff. [[19.30 hours]] And one note: it's not too late. Look, Rakušák are opening schools for numbers that we are far from achieving at this point. So there's time to prepare the return scenarios, which I'm sure each of you will welcome. And all of you who are considering not supporting an emergency, argue by opening schools. I want to say one important thing that has been said here. It was said here that when the emergency was lifted, the schools would open. No, according to the judicate, schools can stay closed without emergency. Testing is the way to open schools. For quick purchase of tests, to ensure logistics through the Integrated Rescue System, it is crucial that we have an emergency situation at our disposal. So canceling the emergency, even though the left part thinks so and saying it here at the counter, doesn't mean bringing the kids back to school, but delaying them. The way to return children to schools is to prolong emergency status and ensure logistics of testing at our schools, including universities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u43	Well, thank you, Minister. And if the remarks I have inherited from my predecessors are correct, that was the last speech with priority rights, and they will therefore be speaking to Members who are duly enrolled in the debate. [[A Free Member comes to the speaker's counter without a drape.]] So, Mr. Volný, how are we doing with the gown? Can I ask you to put it on for the show? Mr. Freeman, I beg you, I ask you to put on a drape. You don't want to put it on, so I hereby remind you in accordance with Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure. And now you... [[The Free Member is responding off the microphone.]] Well, that's different, here we are according to the Rules of Procedure. We're gonna have a conversation if you're on a microphone, please let me finish. I have some bad news for you. We agreed to ignore you more or less, so I'm not gonna banish you from the O.R., and then we're gonna disinfect you again. So, please, talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u44	Thank you for understanding that I'm right here and you're wrong. You're wrong, the truth was on my side, and you had nothing left but to act on it. And I will now comment on what has been said here for the weeping of both the government and opposition Members. [[Most Members leave the Chamber.]] In essence, there is a member of the Aspen Institute, or someone who has studied a school that has been funded by one of the well-known globalists, in virtually every party, except the communists, I don't know about the SPD. [[Noise and restlessness in the Chamber.]] So I think, and I am practically absolutely sure that if the current opposition sits in the current government, the situation would be exactly the same. The current opposition critics of the government would take the same measures as the government is doing today, and today's government would criticize the opposition in the same way. Because everyone here works according to instructions from the higher center, from the centre, which is more important to them and is more important to their decision-making than the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Our team's work was based on information not on Lubomír Volný or Mr Marian Bojek, because we are not really educated in epidemiology. May I have a moment of peace, please? It's so loud in here. Thank you. But we came from the work of Professor Dr. Jiří Beran, candidate of science, doctor of Master Ctirad Musil, lecturer of Dr. Martin Balík, ., professor of Doctor of Natural Sciences Omar Šerý, D, Dr. Soňa Peková, D, lecturer of Doctor of Natural Sciences Irena Koutná, D, Czech Statistical Society, JUDr. Alena Schillerová, ., and Jaroslav Mangl, head of the Funeral Association. While we were based on these expert opinions of professionals in our field, often so top-notch that we are envious of the whole world, or people who received the Honorary Recognition of Mensa in 2020, so government ministers and MPs held secret parties, the Prime Minister is not in quarantine, although he should be, because despite vaccinations he may be infectious, and Minister Blatný is spreading one disinformation after another. I'll start with Professor Beran, who'll find out what people created the PES system. The antiepidemic system, which was introduced to the public on 13 November, created a broad portfolio of experts: four engineers, four magists and five doctors of natural sciences. So none of them is a doctor, let alone an epidemiologist, writes Professor Beran. Because it seemed strange to him, he looked up the author's publication activity in the database and was expecting an unpleasant surprise. None of the authors of the PES system have any medical education at all and have ever dealt with infectious diseases. Professor Beran has been criticized by some PES system makers. So let's talk about the qualifications of one of his greatest critics, Jan Kulvejt. The professor says: I just hate to comment on what someone I don't know wrote about me, I don't know what he looks like, I've never spoken to him. I'm not on any social media, and I'm not gonna be on it because I consider it a waste of time. I learned only that the master studied at the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics and completed his studies at the Studies of Nucleation of Quantum Dots in 2010. In the same year he began to study Ph.D. in a program in one of the institutes of the Academy of Sciences which he completed after nine years, in September 2019, the work of Nukleace as a complex system. His first medical publication was published in mid-December 2020. I don't know if any student-doctor has ever had the opportunity to study a Ph.D. program for nine years, and it amazes me that six months from the defense of the Ph.D. thesis on the above physical theme is an expert on modelling infectious diseases and is involved in the management of epidemics throughout the state. In medicine, the range of this or that expert is not assessed according to what university he studied, but mainly according to the number of foreign publications and according to how many other experts quoted him in his field. So the system or even life in this country has been determined for several months by the system of PES, which - and I repeat - has not been developed by one doctor, let alone an epidemiologist. Next on the list of experts we drew from is Dr. Martin Balík, ., who now had an interview in Space X, and as it is already in our media space, they did not write where his education is and what his titles are, but the article was called lékař Balík. However, this professor claims that three million people have immunity and a fifth of the tests, 20 percent, are falsely positive, we need to be rationally relaxed, we are at the bottom. This is one of those experts who have not been proposed by this government or any opposition to participate in the creation of a system that has controlled our lives for many months. Next, from whom we drew, was Professor Doctor of Natural Sciences Irena Koutná, ph. It again states that memory immunity protects at least a year after losing the covid. Scientists from Brno Labs The centers of cellular and tissue engineering at St. Anne's and Masaryk University Medical Faculty completed the first phase of the clinical trial in which they tested the T-cell immunity of patients who had covid. The professor is convinced that patients who have had covid are immune years, years and a half, maybe even longer. Again, he is a man who has not been involved in any government measures in any way. [[19.40 hours]] Then we have a statement from the Czech Statistical Society, and I say that the government, but I will repeat - if the current opposition is sitting behind me in government seats or in government positions, it would behave exactly the same as the government is now acting YES and ČSSD, because they come from the same incubator - the government introduces restrictions based on emotion, does not work with data, criticizes the fight against coronavirus. Czech Statistical Society. It was published on the disinformation server Hospodářské noviny. The government deals only with emotions, cannot work with data, criticized, came out to the next disinformation north iDnes.cz. What is a classic example of hypocrisy of this time and inability to interpret results correctly is that children should go to schools based on testing. But even with the recognized error rate of the tests, it would mean 21 950 false positives at 1,369, 000 children tested every day. And if Professor Balík is right and the error rate of these tests is up to 20 percent, it would mean 260,000 false positives or false negatives every day. So testing children is just another way to prolong or renew emergency situations so that we never get out of them in our lives. At the same time, the Ministry of Health very reluctantly, but in the final according to the law, through Mrs. Daniela Koblíková, answered the question of why the schools of the Ministry of Justice have an exception from wearing drapes. And now I ask all the parents who listen to us very carefully and ask their Members why this is the way it is, because the answer is: the exemption for schools set up by the Ministry of Justice is set out because they are a comprehensive and non-variable collective of still the same people, in whose case the use of a protective device within such a collective does not pose a serious risk. I'll ask all the parents who are watching us now to think about how very variable their team is or their children's team who go to school. And I'd like to see statistics that show that there's statistically significantly lower fluctuations at the Justice Department schools than at any other school. We're about to proceed to the biggest scandal of the day. I am standing here in front of a virtually empty Chamber of Deputies, because all my colleagues, as a sign of their disapproval, have left this room without a drape. All right, it's their right, but how come the Prime Minister was sitting here today, the Prime Minister, who was in contact with a really sick person with COVID-19 symptoms? The Prime Minister is making excuses for the fact that he already has two doses of vaccination, but, as has been said, vaccination does not prevent infections and does not guarantee infectivity, so according to the public health spokesman of the Central Bohemia Region, vaccination does not disturb the need for quarantine. We cannot say with certainty that a person can never become infected after vaccination and cannot be infectious. At this point, therefore, even if someone is vaccinated, as well as after contact with the positive, and not only positive in this case, but with the symptoms they must quarantine, the press spokesperson said. So today we have witnessed flagrant papalism and violations of the country's laws by a man who is Prime Minister of this country, occurred around a sick person, and although he cannot guarantee his infectivity, he has been sitting here today almost the entire meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The second biggest scandal of the day is no less. The Minister of Health, who holds the bass with others, left again, lied to people at a press conference, spread hoaxes and misinformation, feeks and scared people in this country that patients lie in the hallways in the Hradec hospital, so that the Hradec Hospital would immediately disprove it with the fact that he cares for patients, according to the director's statement. For example, in a hospital in Hradec, patients must be kept out of the classic rooms, even in the corridors of this hospital, the hospital is very overloaded, similar to other hospitals in this region, said the minister. The hospital denied this information, so the Minister of Health lied again. I don't know if it's a game where he doesn't want to do the job anymore, and that's why he's doing everything he can to avoid having to participate in the covid madness, and he wants to get kicked out of the job, or if he's so overworked by lying. However, the hospital replied that patients in no way lie in the corridors and are provided with care appropriate to their medical condition, disproved the Minister's words spokesperson for the Faculty Hospital in Hradec Králové Jakub Sochor. So unfortunately, we have a government minister who systematically and intentionally distributes feces and hoaxes. The question is why. Only the Minister seems to know the answer to that question. Today, Mr. Zaorálek here said that AstraZenecy and Pfizer's shares went down. So I don't know which one of you is following these movements on the stock market, but I'd say that somebody here probably invested in these shares, and today he's disappointed that the shares are falling, and he's asking why. Well, the stock is dropping because the vaccines are scumbags, they don't work, they never work, and they'll never work the way we've been told. So the people who got the vaccines became something like the victims of homemade pot sellers, because about the same quality is the goods they injected into their bodies. Not that I was counting on the minister, but I would say that he touched his respirator about 20 times during his performance, so he achieved that if he went through contaminated space, he had perfectly contaminated both his hands and his respirator, and everything he touched. But again, the Minister is holding the line with all the honest Members and ministers who are so honest about all the government regulations and regulations that I have a video of it on Facebook today with 50 grand on it. Why did I quote the Minister of Finance? Because the Minister of Finance stated in one of the previous negotiations that 184 billion were paid only as compensation to large, medium and small firms at 31. 12th of last year. First, it would be interesting, of course, to learn where the money went and who it ended up with, but if we divide the 184 billion by the endangered group, which makes up about 3 million people, it's going to cost us 60 000 each. With our proposed solution, this means voluntary self-insulating people who feel threatened, even if they are all self-insulated, it is enough money to receive a six-thousand-dollar bonus every ten months to buy, import groceries, ready meals, buy FFP three filters and perfectly isolate themselves from society, taking into account, of course, Professor Beran's recommendation that a half-hour visit to relatives who will also be equipped with respirators that could buy with this money should not infect either side. So we could donate the 184 billion to people who would spend it and spin the wheels of the economy. Instead, we paid the 184 billion to keep the economy from working. Saving the economy by pouring nearly 200 billion into it and forcing the economy to fail instead of pouring 184 billion into the economy, and people who do not feel threatened or threatened by the group could continue to create values, pay taxes, social and health. [[19.50 hours]] We live in a situation of at least a semi-totalitarian state, being released by experts, doctors, health professionals who allow themselves to draw attention to the true condition in their hospitals. The last such a raging case is Dr. Master Ctirad Musil, who only for describing the state in his hospital according to his best knowledge and conscience, was relieved of his post at the reporting of the News List, which, of course, boasted about it on his server. Information about Agrofert's involvement in testing within the Czech Republic also popped up. We know that tens of billions of CZK were spent on testing in the Czech Republic. How many percent of the penalties are made by companies that are economically or personnelly linked to Agrofert? There's 75 percent in public space. I think it would be nice if the Prime Minister, who violates his own regulation by not being quarantined, expressed his opinion here and told us if any administrator of Agrofert, who, of course, is not under his control, could tell him how many of those tens of billions ended up in Agrofert. We will, of course, vote against the extension of the emergency situation, never support any general emergency situation, always aim at targeted measures, as they have done in the most successful Nordic countries, or the power of nature and the immune system, as they have wagered on this in Belarus, and, in essence, Belarus is the winner of this race on a global scale. Saunas, swimming pools, lifts, children to schools without conditions, without testing them to create false positives, without drapes that reduce their immunity and turn their lives into hell. And why isn't the emergency system worth it? It is not worth it because not 30, 40 percent, as was optimistically said here, but about 60, 70 percent of people no longer have the strength to follow the government's measures. And if, today, the Communist Party chairman, Mr Filip, has called for more repression and more rigorous repression, I beg you, what could be more consistent than expelling children who sleigh and sleigh on a hill, what could be more consistent? While this nation meets secretly in pubs, this nation meets in secret hairdressers, pedicures, children visit each other because they have nothing to do, they visit in an absolutely uncontrollable environment, or uncontrolled. This company, according to the lowest estimates, is watered from 1.5 million, according to Dr. Balík from 3 million, according to Professor Beran from 5 million. There's no reason for horizontal measures, it's time for the money that comes in to make the economy die, to invest in endangered groups, and for those of us who are not afraid to go through this pandemic to face it, to let it pass. The situation in society is nearing an explosion, and I therefore hope that today the emergency situation will not be approved, and I hope that this government, which is not here, will not find its own regulations violating the Prime Minister or the Interior Minister, will not find the courage to obey the orders of its superiors both from the European Union and from various funds or the World Economic Forum, and that they will not have the courage in the name of the global world reset to destroy the last remnants of freedom and a functioning economy in this country. Because if he tries, I really don't think the nation would take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u45	Thank you. Next is the debate of Mr Marian Bojko. I'll ask you, too, Mr. Ambassador, when you're less than two meters away to put on a drape, now it's working out, there's no one here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u46	Hello, dear television viewers who are watching us. I, more or less, am not going to talk about the question of children in schools, opening and so forth, because here everything has already been said, here all the speakers with priority rights, my colleague Volný has said his thing. On the contrary, I would draw and speak today from the sources that were in the media. On the day of 8. 2. 2021 published an article on News. cz called Finally After 10 Months Back in Medicine? The WHO World Health Organization published a seemingly inconspicuous document on 20 January 2021. There is a source in English - it is translated, here is a translation for our government - when it substantially re-evaluates recommendations in evaluating PCR tests that are crucial for determining the number of cases COVID-19, and therefore the basis for the draconian measures that we are facing. Positivity of the PCR test, as our government has consistently interpreted it today, automatically means that a person is identified as a confirmed case of COVID-19 disease. This is what the WHO document mentioned above is dedicated to, which now, after 10 months of the announcement of the pandemic, comes with the need to take into account the patient's condition and other factors when interpreting the test results. Literally says, quote: "Most PCR tests are indicated as an auxiliary diagnosis test and therefore health care providers must consider any outcome in combination with timing of sampling, type of sample, specific determinations, clinical findings, patient history, confirmed status of any persons who have been in contact with the patient and epidemiological information." It also states that in case of doubt, a second test should be carried out - where the results of the test do not correspond to the clinical expression, a new sample must be taken and a repeated test carried out using the same or other NAP technology. This document theoretically brings us back to the beginning, that is, to a common medical practice that has disappeared for 10 months. In the EU, however, the definition of cases of COVID-19 of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control of 3 December 2020 still applies, which states that the confirmed case of COVID-19 is defined by compliance - now a reference - by meeting laboratory criteria, it is only a positive PCR or antigen test. So here we have a conflict with the definition of the European Union, which sets out a confirmed case only on the basis of a positive test, and then we have a new WHO recommendation, which says that we need to look at the patient's overall condition and therefore examine everyone properly. Finally, a return to medical practice, when the disease is once again determined by the doctor. And what does our government say? Today, when you call the doctor and tell him you have a temperature, he says to you, "Take a parallel, stay home and lie down, and don't come to me." In that context, I'll read you another article that came out on February 10th in iToday. The new covid mutations complicate the prospect of a rapid end to the pandemic. According to experts, people will have to accept the fact that they will be walking away for several months or years for booster vaccination due to virus mutations. During it, they will receive a different type of vaccine than the first vaccination, or a completely new one, which will respond to virus mutations. It's not pleasant and it'll happen again. We need to accept that we are going to have a booster vaccination, perhaps even by innovative variants of vaccines that will respond to new mutations. It may be interesting to switch to alternative vaccines after two years, for example, said the director of the Libor Grubhoffer Biology Centre on Czech Television. Scientists currently distinguish two main types of vaccines against coronavirus, vectors, AstraZeneca or Russian Sputnik 5, and RNA-based vaccines, BioNTech Pfizer and Moderna. [[20.00 hours]] A person already vaccinated with one type of vaccine would receive the other one when re-inoculated. According to Grubhoffer, the efficacy of each vaccine is different for each human. It is undoubtedly an individual matter. Each of us is an original being. Of course, immunologists and allergologists make a good distinction as to whether a particular type can be contraindicated by the individual's condition, he explained. However, I think that both vaccines are of comparable quality, he added. In the following years, he believes that new types of vaccines will be developed to respond to other virus mutations. Existing vaccines may not be enough for them in the future. For example, the South African virus mutation is already greatly reducing the effectiveness of the vaccine from AstraZeneca. So far, the South African government has stopped distributing this vaccine in the country. The need to re-inoculate the population with vaccines, which will also be effective for other mutations of COVID-19, was also brought to the attention of Snow scientists on Monday. According to immunologist Zdeněk Hel, manufacturers are already working on them. According to him, the risky South African mutation has not yet arrived in the Czech Republic. Since it has already been identified in Tyrol, for example, it is only a matter of time. In such a case, limiting travel between regions could help. According to Hel, the risk is that the antibodies are about ten to thirty times lower after the loss and about six to eight times after the vaccination. It can be expected that patients will be reinfected, explained. The vaccines will need to be adjusted to act against multiple variants of the virus, as current vaccines will have reduced ability. In the summer or autumn, he believes it would be necessary to start re-inoculation. The mutations are named after the place where scientists first sequencing the virus gene, so that they determine its structural parameters. There's no way we can stop her. It will become dominant in the order of a few days or weeks, added Hel. Suspicion of this mutation reveals some PCR sets, only a gene sequence, i.e. a detailed genetic analysis of the virus, will confirm it. According to Roman Prymula's ex-medical ex-minister from last week, because of the spread of more contagious coronavirus mutations such as the British one, it is no longer true that risk contact is a meeting of people without drapes at a distance of less than two meters for 15 minutes or more. People can get infected in seconds. Well, I wonder what data and data he was drawing from, that's what I'm really interested in. According to the World Health Organization, laboratories discovered the British mutation in 37 countries in Europe. While continental Europe is dealing with this mutation, Brazil, for example, is making a hard head for the Brit next to South Africa. She, too, is concerned that she might be able to accelerate the spread of the virus or be more resistant to antibodies. So it was two articles, both completely different. One says we should get back to treatment. We were here about six months ago saying that everything was just going to be a vaccination. So for me, you were laughing at us back then. So I see that we've really come to this vaccination, that there'll never be anything else, just vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, for life. And now I'm going to read you an article with the consent of the person who wrote it. I can read it because it's about his mommy. This article was written by Mr Matouš Bulíř, whom I greatly appreciate, who is a very, very clever man. He writes very good articles. "Unfortunately, I can finally provide information about vaccination firsthand. Our family is divided in their opinion of vaccination. My dad and I are against my dad, even though my dad is an age of endangered groups. My mom was originally against it, too, but then she succumbed to pressure and maybe a little bit of fear. My mom works as a nurse, which got her to have this amazing privilege and get the vaccine. I say for myself that I am an opinionally tolerant person, and therefore I respected her decision, because there is no evidence that the vaccine is harmful, but at the same time there is no evidence that it does not harm in the long term. Therefore, I always present my opinion on conavir vaccination as subjective. Back to the subject. The first vaccination took place, I think, fine. No side effects, or at least not the ones my mom would complain about. I think it's just the classic momentary pain in the hand in which the vaccine was administered. The problem came up with a second dose that my mom got about 13 days ago. It immediately completely removed her - fever, chills, absolute fatigue, malaise. Personally, I would describe it as a more difficult course of COVID-19 disease. But here it is after something to protect you from this. The hospital said there was an information embargo because it was known that a second dose of vaccination would usually take you off for at least two days. The hospital was quite rightly afraid that if they told people what was waiting for them after the vaccination, even medical personnel would refuse to receive a second vaccination, so they would rather not be told. Do you remember when the D.O.D. decided out of the blue that they were going to stop all over the doctor's vaccination immediately? Now I think you understand why. As this would result in the decommissioning of all health personnel in the Republic. I don't want to discourage you from vaccination. I just want to give you valid information about what vaccinations can bring you." I firmly believe that people have the right to know all the positives and negatives about vaccinations, and the more they censor the inappropriate views of vaccinations, the more I am on the lookout. Good and positive things can withstand criticism without censorship, simply because they are good and positive. Censorship always comes at a moment when an officially authorised opinion has no chance of standing up to the critical point of view and the resulting questions. Where there are no questions, there may not be answers. So I'm saying once again, we're not going to agree to extend the emergency situation, we're not going to vote for it. I believe that not only do I believe that you and the rest of you, as well as the ministers, are going through emails from desperate people who have lost everything that has been building some businesses for many years, pensions. Now they're broke, some haven't gotten any compensation from the second wave at all, or they just don't have more or less a claim on them. And what's going on with the kids is the craziest thing I ever thought I'd ever experience. So that kids can't go into circles so they can't sing, so they can't play sports, so all they can do is sit home on their ass, get fat and do nothing at all. And I see it in those 15-year-old boys today - I have a grandson like that - who don't even want to go to school anymore. Grandpa, we don't want to go to school. I mean, we see each other every day. I don't need to go to school. So a 15-year-old boy's opinion is pretty much over the edge. And those kids are gonna be fooling us all. And maybe that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u47	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Dominik Feri, but I will ask for a short break until 20.08 hours to disinfect the speaker's space. [[The speaker's counter and microphone are disinfected.]] It's 8:08. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. The Minister is also present. He's just not sitting in the desk, he's standing by the door. So we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u48	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like - and I have always done so when it comes to extension - to ask for an extension of the emergency - to sum up some issues that are forgotten after my trial. First of all. Minister, please let us look for ways to enable individual amateur sports, opening sports sites and gyms. This challenge is directed at you because we all know here that there was a discussion about the creation of some PES system alternation, that this individual sport would be possible, which we acknowledged with gratitude, but unfortunately it did not come into life. The PES system is not updated. The original PES who still remembers it. The fact that we've been at a different level for a month, but it doesn't actually follow, even though I know of course that this is just a matter of recommendation for the government that it should go to a lower level. Let's go look for the roads. There is experience abroad, and I think that the Ministry should take into account the specifics of individual sports and allow them to be carried out on sports grounds. [[20.10 hours]] A specific example. I spoke with representatives of the Czech Tennis Union and I don't know why tennis players couldn't play in the halls when they're 20 meters apart. Why can't they play? Why couldn't climbers climb inside, like in a bouldering? Why not? These are specific examples. The Czech Chamber of Fitness can imagine, for example, that the capacity in the gyms would be reduced. Yes, there are issues of air change, disinfection of the premises, some sort of overhead measures, but that can be resolved. Why is sport important? I know that in the context of the covid crisis, everyone has some - please? [[The Minister of Finance stopped at the venue and addressed the speaker.]] Miss me? I love you guys so much, I really do. [[with a smile.]] I'm glad you came back, then, that's great, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u49	Thank you all. It's a pleasant atmosphere here. Please don't talk to yourself any other way than when you have room at the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u50	Thank you. Why sport is important. I am aware that everyone has an interest in the Covido crisis, and every time the opposition says: open something or try to open something, someone else will call again and say: well, here's the culture, why you only deal with sport, why you don't discuss culture. But I think sports are very important, because that's one way to handle it mentally. It's been a year with us. It's hard to handle. Of course, athletes also turn to lose form, wanting to practice. Please, let's look for the roads. We'll be completely helpful. The government's signals in recent times are more like that - trips to nature and sport in nature, cross-country skiing etc. - more like looking through your fingers and trying to limit it in some way through restrictions on the free movement of persons and trips to the mountains. I don't think it's right, and I don't measure anybody's double standard. For example, when Minister Havlíček was driving a local in South Bohemia, I said it was quite all right, because who would be harmed if he went alone in the woods with his dog? No one. That's what I think it's supposed to be. Let's let the athletes play sports. I'm sorry the Minister of Education isn't here, but I understand the negotiations today are a little unpredictable. But what I am very sorry about as a fresh graduate of college is that all attention is directed towards opening either first degree or final years. I understand that there is a great social interest in this because of relaxing or, say, improving the conditions of parents, because distance learning has its specifics, and at the same time it is probably difficult to be all at home and somehow not go crazy about it. But college kids feel like they're staying on the sidelines. What's the deal if you look at the media? The seniors are in charge. Still seniors, seniors, seniors. But the questions of opening universities are not addressed, the possibility for some disciplines to work as part of the presentation course. I would consider it good, appropriate, and I also consider it very important. I think it deserves your attention. I must commend the government on one thing or two things, including the minister present, that he listened very actively to the initiative I gave him a few days ago in order to allow the opening of libraries in the delivery window mode. It's very important, there's a statelady coming, and at the same time students are writing their final papers. Thank you very much for that. I thank the Minister of Culture that an agreement has been reached with the authors' associations, respectively with the Union of bookshops and publishers, and the digital approach will continue to work. It's very important. Let's not forget the college kids. They're not just high school kids, and they're first grade, they're college kids. It also seems to me that culture is forgotten. Once again, what is for one's entertainment and leisure activities, going to the theatre after work in normal times, is for another's livelihood. I know the theaters are trying, trying to use other ways to work, whether it's some online streaming or something, but the new PES was counting on some sort of overhead measures, counting on using antigen testing, and that's where we should be heading. The situation is difficult, other issues are being dealt with politically, whether or not there will be an emergency, but let's solve specific cases. It affects many people, whether they stand on that stage or those who are in the audience and watching the stage. I won't allow myself to forget the arrangements. As a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I have repeatedly expressed my views on the nature of the measure, the type and legal authorisation under which the measures are granted. In this matter, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Ministry has foreseen this situation and is ready immediately, when the emergency situation is very likely not to be approved and extended at midnight, to start writing emergency measures and to begin adapting to the fact that it will have to operate under the Public Health Act. It is a political squint that we are repeatedly blamed by the Prime Minister as opposition, that the heavens may collapse at the end of the emergency, and everything will become loose. It's not like that. Anyone who claims this is lying because the Public Health Act provides relatively broad legal authority to implement certain measures on a flat-rate basis, even by case-law. I will state the decision of the Municipal Court in Prague that it is possible to impose the obligation to wear drapes. In view of the various legal interpretations, for example, restrictive measures for opening restaurants can also be applied under this law. But, of course, there are different legal opinions. I wonder what the opinion of the Ministry of Health, the legislative department, is, for example, the Ministry of the Interior, it seems to me, has a slightly different interpretation than that of the legally prevailing. So if there's a consensus in the government, if you just know what's gonna happen next, or if you're just gonna appeal to feelings and blackmail that the opposition has a wonder not blood on their hands, but there's no plan B what the government's gonna do. I wouldn't be surprised if he wasn't, because the opposition repeatedly condemns the government that Plan B just doesn't have, that the situation is always running out, it's reactive, it's not proactive. I wonder if there's a plan to keep those measures away, what measures we can't keep to know where we stand. And I think that's the interest of every one of us legislators that we are on, what measures will work and what we will wake up to in our republic on Monday. What's very important about the whole thing and what I'm personally asking when I'm trying to figure out why we're not going to support an emergency, explaining. After a year of living in an emergency, I think we agree - because even the Minister of Finance is proposing compensatory proposals, we are criticizing them, but something is being put forward, and it is obvious that this is about people's lives and health, but it is also about people's livelihoods. That's why, that's what bothers us so much. I am very surprised that we are here for increasing compensation, for simplifying compensation programmes; The absurd thing is that Prime Minister Hamáček will add a post to Facebook where he says: It's complicated, let's simplify it. I don't know what the relationship between YES and ČSSD in government is, why they can't say it in government - if it's complicated programs, why it hasn't been simplified in advance. Mr. Hamáček can't say to Mr. Havlíček: Make it easier for someone to orientate themselves in this, so it's not as much experience as with COVID - Rent. It was every businessman who pulled his hair out. This means that the question of compensation is sensitive and it is absolutely strange and absurd that a political agreement will suddenly be reached, that the compensation bonus will double, that it will start to simplify. Now. That would be great information in April 2020 or in the fall. But now, the government's back on track. And in conclusion, we don't have this place to discuss today because I think the government realized how far wrong she stepped. So it is a proposal, press number 1152, which allows entrepreneurs to impose an administrative penalty on the prohibition of activity in repeated infringements. I accuse the parentheses that I support the enforcement of the law in order for the measures to be complied with, but it is also necessary for entrepreneurs to know what is rightfully and rightly is not. I remember very well the unfortunate experience when the measure changed from day to day, chaoticly, unpredictablely, the government's resolution was published with great, very lateness and entrepreneurs did not know what they were up to. The border situation has not been clarified, which means that you may not have known whether or not you can operate your business. And in that state, the government wants to tighten up the measures? It's typical of our government that she's not very good at helping, but in punishing, she's absolutely top-notch at that. [[20.20 hours]] The reason why I think we should throw the possibility of imposing a ban on activities for up to one year is as follows. It's just that when you have a desperate situation or you're in a desperate situation, you're in the innkeeper, that's probably the loudest case, and you fall through the system, which is totally commonplace, it's not some complex opposition fantasy. You have a pub, it's in your own real estate, which you took a mortgage on. Can you reach something? You employ employees, for example, on an agreement to carry out work or on DPČ. Can you reach something? You won't. Compensatory bonus, okay, but no one's gonna pay you a mortgage, nobody's gonna help you with that, because the measures are just like this... Compensation bonuses are - or compensatory measures are - so badly set. If someone who opens up in this desperate situation has a second, third appeal in administrative proceedings, could get administrative punishment for a ban on activity for up to one year, does the government even realize what that means? Or was it the Home Office on Letná from the comfort of the office from the table? I think they came up with it from the table because what does that mean? When you close a single pub in the village, you impose a ban on it - and I am aware and know the principles of administrative punishment - but when it happens in some excess, it's liquidation. It's vanquishing for cultural life in that village. At the same time, when you close the only pub - and it's not just the pubs - it can be about the lifters, it can be about the hairdresser, other services - so it falls on the entrepreneurs, on their families, on their employees. If you get a restraining order, you're gonna release those employees immediately, because what are you gonna pay them for? Why would you keep them? Is the government aware of this place? Let's be rational. In punishment, the government is really top-notch when we take the press 1111, returned from the Senate, - fortunately, the government doesn't have a hundred to declare it - where the fine is up to CZK 3 million. Today, the liquidation penalty is still 20,000 thousand. Even $20,000 for the entrepreneurs, and it's not possible yet. But no, the government wants three million tops, and the government wants to impose a ban on activities for up to one year. Please, let's get a grip. It's supposed to help, it's not supposed to be punished. We discussed it on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and one of the government MPs, she's not here, she said, these people need to be scared. I don't think so. I think now, in this state, when we're in such a social spasm that people are supposed to support themselves with these compensations when we forbade them to do business or the government forbade them to do business with their crisis measures. It is necessary to give them some perspective that it will be better, to give them the opportunity to finally live a little life according to their own, not to go crazy about it, to allow them to play sports, to live a little more culturally, to meet a little bit, but not to scare them and to do: No, if you open up, out of desperation, out of utter despair, to need it, it doesn't matter, so you get a ban on activities for up to one year. We will not support the emergency, and I consider it shameful that we are being repeatedly attacked by the Prime Minister, that we have blood on our hands, and that everything else will follow us. It's not like that. The House of Crisis Management only has the derogatory word or the possibility of extending it. Either he says there's no need for an emergency, or we need to, so we'll extend it. We can't even express ourselves actively in the form of these crisis measures, it's just take or leave it. That means either we can agree to it as a whole, with the emergency situation, but if we don't like any emergency measures, there's nothing we can do about it. If I had anything to say about it, the Prime Minister is sitting behind the wheel of the car, the opposition is sitting in the backseat, he can't even talk about it, and the car is going against the wall. And he's gonna hit that wall. [[Secretary Schiller off the mic: The belts must have.]] He must have belts, yes. That's right. He's gotta have belts. And that was in the parking lot, wasn't it? What happens - and that probably will happen - only goes to the Prime Minister. Where's the Prime Minister? Why isn't he here? Why isn't he sitting here? Wasn't he the one who actually breasted himself and said that I accept political responsibility and only I carry it? And all of a sudden, the Prime Minister, who said that so stately before the flag, became a coward who points to the opposition and says, "It's her fault. No, the D.O.D. has a plan for what happens if the emergency doesn't go on, he has to know what happens next, what measures can work. Where this has now come from, the fact that there are frustrating negotiations with the opposition, yet forced - the opposition simply broke into the Prime Minister's door, wanted to deal with the situation. The Prime Minister tried to put it out at the last minute today, but I can't. It's been the sixth time we've gotten where we've gone, and that the opposition won't support it, and that you've pissed off the Communists, too, so that's the consequence that you've given up any other opinion than yours, that you haven't cared about experts' recommendations, that you haven't cared about the opposition's impulses, which we've always given you nicely in a bow. You took something from us, said it was your own. In some good cases, such as the opening of libraries in some regime, we are very happy about that, that's fine, but mostly you didn't give a damn about the opposition proposals. I understand that the YES movement is used to ruling from a position of strength, but the voting machine will stop one day. And I think it's going to be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u51	I also thank you, Mr Vice-President, and the Minister of Health Jan Blatný will speak with priority. Mrs Hyťhová must wait a little longer. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u52	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I've been listening to this for ten hours, and I just don't really understand why there's such a distrust that there's an aversion to an emergency. Emergency status is just technology. Please, let us talk about the need to work together in some other way or that we want to adjust these measures together and so on, but I just still don't understand - and I would like to understand it, but I have not succeeded yet - why there is such enormous opposition to the emergency situation. It's like saying we have a house that's painted in a different color than we'd like. And then we drag the scaffolding we're supposed to walk around the house so we can paint it again. So I just don't completely understand it, which is why I want to say it again, because I understand a lot of these notes, a lot of them I might even sign, I'm sure there's always something I can do better, but I just don't know why we're all in an emergency state that's just a vehicle, it's just a technical thing that tells us how we can keep working. And I'd also like to remind you that I'm sure you're all watching on your phones and on your computers the way we scared the captains in the last ten hours. Where, when there is really no emergency support, what I do - maybe I have bad information - but what I see in the media space is something completely different from what was said here - how the captains look forward to how they will all manage it beautifully themselves. If I were the governor, I'd be so worried I'd stick to something very solid. So just think about it, please, and I don't know why the emergency is such a red rag. From where I'm standing, it's just a technical matter that if we take off, we shoot ourselves in the leg, and we all have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u53	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u54	I'll take the liberty of reacting to this immediately, why it's such a problem - because it's not just a technical matter. I like that it is constantly repeated, that it is a legal framework, of course, but it means that the Chamber of Deputies cannot do anything about specific crisis measures. If you care, there's nothing we can do about it. Nor as opposition Members, although perhaps some of the government's Members disagree, through Mr President, with measures, with some partials, but when the Ministry has a different opinion, there is simply nothing to do with it. Either this emergency is over, all emergency measures are over, or it's not over. And I'd like to ask you one more time. Mr. Secretary, does the government have a plan for what happens on Monday if the emergency doesn't extend? Do you have any measures prepared to be issued under the Public Health Act? Do you have an overview of what will be maintained further, which will not be maintained further? Would you please say that here? You're gonna build it for sure? Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u55	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová is in the debate at the moment, Mr Koten will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u56	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'd like to speak for Trikolóra. Our opinion will, of course, be delivered by our President Václav Klaus, but this speech will be directed directly to Prime Minister Babiš, who is unfortunately absent here. Dear Prime Minister Babiš, I was terrified to read your statement yesterday, where you said: "Whoever does not support the extension of the emergency will be responsible for the dead." Your words really shocked me. In that case, it can be understood that the previous X months of emergency we had here, and in that time died with covid, I say with covid, not for covid, over 17,500 people died, you are responsible. Is it that you're responsible for this? Or how are we supposed to understand that? Prime Minister, through Mr President, do not blackmail us with these words of yours. As a government official, Prime Minister, the Prime Minister is indeed a very scandalous statement. So I would like to ask you to apologize to all of us for this statement. Furthermore, I would ask you to refrain from making such statements in the future. Our position on the emergency situation has not changed and will not change. Businessmen can't work, children don't go to school and there's a restriction on movement. No concrete solution has been given to us here today. Businessmen simply do not have money, children are not in school, there is no solution in sight. That's why we can't support the emergency and we won't support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u57	Thank you, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Mr Radek Koten is now in line, Stanislav Juránek will be ready and we will continue the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u58	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I do not wish to prolong this, but it really does not allow me to say anything about it in any way. We have a sixth emergency extension request here. We always wanted some justification for why and so on, but those measures often seemed illogical to us and unfortunately to most of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic seemed illogical. Because, for example, the operation of lifts has not been restored, but there are even more skiers on the slopes than would normally be there, and they gather in different places because the lifts do not go, so they stay there, they talk together because they need to rest, and so on. So by taking measures that didn't allow for the lifts, the government essentially achieved absolutely nothing. We really don't want to prolong the emergency here, we've never voted for it. I see it as such a blank check to the government, because basically, after the extension, nothing really happened. This morning I had a rather interesting phone call from my friend, the elementary school principal in Kruxemburg. He said to me, "Look, I can't do that anymore, I'm going to work, and now I'm looking at a pond, and there's about 60 kids on the pond, and they're skating there, but they can't go to school. I know exactly what the layout of that elementary school is because I went there. It's a huge building with huge hallways, like most schools that were built in the last century. The proposal he gave me is, please send those kids to school already! Distance lessons are crazy for us, the kids can't concentrate at all, and we're able to make sure that these kids go to school for a week, have distance for a week, and take turns making sure that the concentration of the children in school isn't like that. I suppose you can do that in all schools. And in small classes, where there are ten kids in the classroom, there I think it's no problem at all to keep it. So I would really focus on getting the kids back to school, and the parents who have to babysit the smaller children at home and don't work, on the contrary, have to be paid from the state budget in different forms, so let's really get them back to school. I think that school directors are already so experienced that they can take measures to prevent anything from happening in schools that can happen in those areas where children meet outside of school, completely unorganized, and no one can stop them from giving them any rules. As far as mandatory tests are concerned, if they're saliva tests, I don't think anyone has a problem with that, but since I've been talking to the parents of little children, they certainly don't want anyone sticking anything up their nose, and especially not someone unqualified, because it can cause much more damage. The emergency situation here brings quite a lot of social impact, whether it's on families or businessmen. Some groups that do business in a particular field have either gone bankrupt or are just before the crash. You could say that people managed again, because if there are closed restaurants, the neighbors would agree, buy a keg, meet at someone in the garage and the desired distance distance, which we were able to accommodate in at least some way in restaurants where there were tables of four and there were some gaps between and people went there to eat, so we left. And unfortunately, there will now come a relatively large wave of collapses of owners of these properties, because they are no longer able to finance the energy needed in the winter to heat up. And unfortunately, the support from the various Covids that came in here isn't gonna help them, because there was a rule that they can't owe a penny to get their support, which is almost three quarters of a year, or it's gonna be a year since the various emergency states and lockdowns are taking turns here, so it's no wonder because the reserves they had used up last year in the first half of the year. Then they thought it was final, that everything was settled, but unfortunately it's not solved and it's related to personal bankruptcy, it's related to insolvency, it's related to the fact that people have nothing to pay mortgages on. For this reason, too, it is not possible to insist on reducing and closing the economy. Besides, I don't know who it serves or who it doesn't serve, but there's already a lot of shopping going on here from the owners of restaurants and property owners, hotels and the like, they're offering prices way below the price of someone buying it. Then I don't know what it's for. I would also like to draw attention here to the rather lax approach of the regional sanitation station or sanitation station, which is in charge of testing in my region. It was a case of an infection in a nursing home, and I'm not gonna name it here on purpose, but except for a few emergency medical services, she was able to send someone to test the retired people who lay out whether they had covid or didn't have covid. That's what I think is a complete failure for a week or two of them to have to wait for someone to come and test them because they're absolutely at the edge of anyone's interest, because they're actually unproductive and they're just lying there just to hopefully die, so I think that's an unacceptable situation. [[20.40 hours]] At yesterday's meeting, even at the previous meetings, it was said here by colleagues that we must only have vaccines here from manufacturers to the west of us. So please, what did the European Union do that didn't centrally secure vaccines, as it wanted, so that the Czech Republic would have enough vaccines? Anyone else here are gonna forbid us from ordering a vaccine from an alternative manufacturer just because there's some ideological barrier? I don't think this is about ideology, this is about wanting to give those people who really want to get vaccinated the opportunity to choose the vaccine and the vaccine at all. So here I think some ideology is totally odd. Let's not gamble, for God's sake, with the health of our citizens. Someone doesn't want to get vaccinated, please don't let him get that freedom. If he's a strong individual and he's sure he's healthy and sick, it's his choice. But I just hope that the government can secure vaccines, and it doesn't matter what world side. And I hope that everything will remain free of those who want to inoculate themselves, so they will be able to vaccinate. And who will refuse, of course, it is his full right. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and please, let us not gamble on the health of our fellow citizens and we will finally open up the economy, because the people who are still at home in quarantine will not generate any tax revenue, and it can turn out that the state will be much more indebted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u59	I thank Mr Radek Koten. Mr Stanislav Juránek will now appear, Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u60	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Vice Prime Minister, colleagues, Minister, I apologise, I wanted to say hello to everyone who is here. [[The Treasury Secretary speaks from government benches off the microphone.]] Yes, thank you, but I don't want to get upset at this point, because I'd like to bring a new perspective into it. I would like to tell you that today's meeting has made me very happy. It may surprise you, but I was very pleased, especially with its beginning, for the first two hours, because the first two hours here we in the Chamber of Deputies seemed to have interrupted time and seemed to have nothing to do, but negotiations were going on. I must say that I am convinced that what awaits us from today to the elections and after the elections is precisely that of the negotiations, and I thank all those who have acted. I don't think that when it really started - and I think of it as the very serious and first serious negotiations of the coalition with the opposition, when it was really the first, I don't think it has to end inevitably with a good result. But again, I say that it is important to do so regardless of whether we approve or not approve an extension of the emergency situation. The look I want to tell you is the view from the region, because I am the last Member in the South Moravian Region who has been there since the beginning, since the first day since the South Moravian Region came into existence, or actually before Brno until today. The view from the region is one that could enrich you, which is why I say that I welcome these negotiations and I hope that these negotiations will lead to something, because these negotiations must be conducted regardless of whether there is an emergency or not. Here I want to tell you quite responsibly as a person who, 72 times in the South Moravian Region, has declared a state of danger that, whatever it is, we will discuss it again in the next few weeks. We can choose two paths. One way that we will prolong the emergency, we will extend it to, say, 14 days, and during that time, some changes or a series of changes that require the current emergency state to be believed, and that there be no excesses in it, and that it really leads to what it should be directed towards, in a clear way, or the other way that things will go towards the captains. And here's my look. In that context, I would like to say that I was wondering whether or not to get off, but I got a text from my captain, Jan Grulich, from the South Moravian Region, and he said to me, "Try to agree and extend the emergency by 14 days." He's asking me to, and it's his voice. And I, because I was previously the governor and was the first deputy governor, but my voice did not reach the Chamber of Deputies, today I want you to hear this voice first. I am glad to hear from him this way, because what awaits our commander and, of course, the other captains and mayor of the capital city of Prague, I know very well and intimately, because all those previous crisis situations have started at the lower level over the last twenty years and then reached the upper level. We are now in a position to choose the path, because we have started this state from the top level, and at this point, we want to move it to the bottom. It's possible, it's not true, it's not possible. I mean, as part of the measures that the captains will have to take, the first thing I think every chieftain has to do, or at least everyone will be recommended and the mayor of the capital also has to declare a state of danger from midnight on Sunday to Monday. This matter is really enough to make us realize what it really means. This means that he will use everything the law allows him, but we already know - because we know what the situation is, what it looks like in the whole republic - that it won't be enough. He will look for the cooperation - and of course there is a huge possibility and there will be cooperation - with the various ministries. I can say for myself that they've always helped me. Sometimes I had to explain it at some ministry for longer, for a shorter time, but they helped. The Home Office is the main thing, which means all the officers are going to turn to the Home Secretary because that's the way it's set up. And what's next? It'll mean they'll do everything they can. Please don't believe they can do anything themselves. This means that they, with successive steps in fourteen places, 14 gradual steps will be given to either have to ask for an emergency, and I will now allow myself to say one more thing, what happens when all 14 regions declare a state of danger: at that point - I am not a lawyer, but - directly an obligation to declare an emergency. That means that if anyone here is saying that he's gonna sue when he reclaims -- excuse me, criminal charges, thank you for stating that criminal charges will be filed, especially for every member of the government, and maybe for every member of the crisis staff, I don't know what that means, so it's possible that someone will file something like that, but on the other hand, I really can't imagine that at the moment when 14 regions declare a state of danger that in this situation someone would have the courage not to declare this situation in reverse. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] [[20.50 hours]] And now, regardless of whether they announce themselves or not, if it takes a week or if it takes six weeks, there's a situation that we're going to reunite here, because, of course, the Chamber of Deputies, when the government announces an emergency, has the right to cancel this emergency. That means, not that they could just decide. This law of ours is very well established, and the sensible government will want us to discuss the matter clearly here. I'll get back to what's important. We shall choose the path - and now it seems more likely that we will leave the responsibility to the captains - so we shall meet here with certainty. And I'm begging that we don't stop at the meeting that started today. I see him very positively. We haven't tried it yet. We've had almost the entire term of office, but we haven't tried the serious thing yet. And for me... I'm taking the positive out of him - that he's acting because my grandfather said that as long as he's acting, he's not still shooting. He experienced World War I. So I'd even say there's less shooting each other today because we're all aware of the seriousness of this moment. And I have a great request that we do not cease our negotiations. I was wondering how to move it, and I wanted you to remember the captains. You know, I used to wake up sometimes when I was the governor because I knew I was responsible for security in the county. It was the beginning. We didn't know exactly what was gonna happen. But when there was, like, any major accident, environmental, or when the floods came, I just knew that I was responsible for it -- even though there is an entire body on the edge called the Governor, and you have a lot of people around you, the Governor decides. And he has one more thing - criminal responsibility that no other politician in our entire system has. He may be assaulted for taking advantage of the authority of a public official, but as far as the governor is concerned, it's worse. If nothing's changed, the lower rate for the governor is three years unconditional. Please take this, how big a offense is it if the Governor does something? I'll take it. He has great authority. But isn't that a bit excessive after all? Should we not consider some adjustment in the future on this issue? So I'm gonna go back to that and I'm gonna say one thing. I don't know what to do to make it happen. At this point, I don't see a chance, because I've been listening to everyone, from the beginning, I've been listening to the Volný One. So I can tell you that I've listened to every single person who's spoken here today. But I haven't seen the will to get a majority here. Nevertheless, not to get away with it, but to make this a reason for action and for thought, I would like to make an amendment. I would like to make an amendment so that the extension of the emergency situation is not by 30 days, but only until 28 February. I'm giving it to the fact that it's not certain that there's any point at all. It makes sense to me when it leads to negotiations. If it doesn't lead to negotiations, there's no point in adding my vote to it, because I really wish there was a broad agreement. This proposal of mine is only here so that my speech does not fit in, so that we really realize that there are two paths and that the emergency situation is, after all, the final result of the state of danger in fourteen regions. Therefore, I ask you not to support the emergency, but I ask you not to stop acting, and I do not really care whether I have approached Members and Members for the coalition or for the opposition. Please try to look into it with the eyes of the captains. Try to look into the future and be aware that there are two ways, let's not overdo it, there are two ways. One way is to go to the bottom level, which now seems much more likely, but it will come back up again, because there are simply no possibilities, it is tried and serious things have never ended in any other way than an emergency. And the other thing is possible if we were able to make a quick deal. But I'm going back to this again, please: thank you for today's two hours, in which I've only walked here and there and somewhere. Because I'm going to repeat my grandfather's words again: as long as it's done, it's not fired. Thank you for listening to me. I'm sure you'll understand that I'm going to vote with my club, no matter what he decides, and I'm assuming it's more like the other option. But please accept that we'll meet here in this thing, that it'll be about us, that it'll be about the government. And I will be happy to see negotiations lead not only to this matter, but also to others to be closer to each other. Believe me, I'm not saying this for any electoral reasons. My wife has decided on my future functioning in the next election - she has decided not to vote for me, and without this vote, I am not going into any elections. And that's why I'm saying this with more freedom than many of you running for office here. But please accept this right now as a thank you for the negotiations that have already taken place and as a request that these negotiations continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u61	I thank Mr Stanislav Juránek for his speech. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will now prepare for the speech. But with priority rights for the club chairman who is replaced, Vice-President of the ANO Roman Kubíček Club. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I believe correctly, we only voted within 21 hours. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u63	Yes. I'm checking it out in the log, and it's true. And even if I gave the floor to my colleague Gajdůšková, I would warn her that I would interrupt her, and I asked the President of the MPs to come to me after the decision we have to make after 21 o'clock. So if you have any positive suggestions, you bring him in, and I'll let him vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u64	I would like to propose, on behalf of the two ANO and ČSSD MEPs, that we act and vote in a territorial manner after the 21st hour before discussing the proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period, which I expect to have a rather long debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u65	Okay. There. I will put it to a vote, even though I am aware that there is also a narrower interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, that such a proposal must be made within 19 o'clock. I don't share it. It's not the law, first of all. Secondly, the only thing I risk is someone objecting to the President's procedure. So now I am going to vote on the proposal of the ANO and Social Democracy Members' Clubs that, on this point, on the proposal to extend the emergency period, we will still vote after 21.00 until the completion of its discussion. [[Noise in the hall. Members are coming.]] Voting number 21. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. No. 21 votes, 85 votes for 52 against no one. The motion was accepted. At this point, then, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková has the floor and Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Calm down, please. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u66	Thank you for the floor. Have a good night, everyone. honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable and honourable Government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u67	I will interrupt you, Madame, and I will indeed ask my colleagues to remain calm! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u68	Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to come forward after 21st hour and discuss this point. If you will allow me to look at the whole matter that we are debating all day today, of course, from the point of view of the region, so I will follow up on my esteemed colleague, Mr Juránek, but also as an ordinary woman who must take care of the household and simply live the way most of the people in this country live. You know, when we were sewing drapes with the ladies of the Czech Red Cross in the spring, no one thought that the emergency could last more than 200 days. So I confess very much that I am not pleased and annoyed by the many illogicalities of how these things are going, that it is not possible to buy normal consumption for a year, for example in markets where you are going to buy food anyway. It bothers me because I was originally a teacher that little children have to worry about distance teaching instead of enjoying their friends and the teacher explained to them what she had to explain to them so that they could get the most basic things in the first classes of primary school to get, and that is a good relationship to education. Like most of the population in this country, I'm waiting for my turn to be vaccinated, but I'd be very, very happy if first those who are caring for people with disabilities, seniors in nursing homes and in the field, and also to be vaccinated by teachers so that children can go to school -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u69	Yes, please calm down! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u70	Thank you for understanding. But I can see from practice at the Regional Authority that without the possibility of coordinating and reacting quickly to the increase in disease and the flooding of hospitals and other problems that pandemics, but also new mutations of coronavirus, do not solve. They can't be solved. I am very strongly aware of the situation of health professionals and people working in social services. These people are doing their best, just like the people in public transport, the sales girls, and all the others. But I'm going back to the paramedics whose work I really appreciate very much. Let me read what they sent me from the Department of Health and Social Welfare of the Czech Republic. The Prime Minister and some other speakers have already referred to this, but I would like to remind you of this and read a specific text that I received: "Do not threaten patients' lives, prolong the emergency situation. " Hospitals and both trade unions also supported the challenge of health and medical unions. Monday's joint call of the Department of Health and Social Welfare of the Czech Republic and the Medical Union Club, the Association of Czech Doctors to politicians and the public was also supported by the Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals, the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions and the Association of Separate Unions. The trade union and the trade union represent all professions working in hospitals and ambulances in the so-called first line and their urgent call is based on the specific situations of these workplaces and their exhausted employees. It requires politicians to stop using the situation to enforce their selfish interests, to take seriously the risk of new highly contagious mutations in coronavirus and to prolong the emergency situation. This call calls for fellow citizens to comply with the measures taken. Colleagues, colleagues, let us think of all those in the first line, but also of vulnerable groups, seniors and people with disabilities. I am thinking about them, and therefore this time I will support the extension of the emergency situation for at least those few days, as has been proposed here, and please also consider your decisions once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u71	Thank you. Now with priority rights for KDU-ČSL, Mr. Jiří Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u72	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic has been in a very difficult situation for 11 months and almost a year, this is a really long time, and the enemy is strong and mutating. As my colleague Stanislav Juránek has been said here several times, communication and its responsibilities and basic ability should be to communicate, seek and find solutions, even in the most difficult situations, not to pretend that it is impossible. Instead of consensus, we are often witnessing various gunfights that, in a difficult situation, our citizens need least of all. They really don't need to hear from us who's responsible, who's supposed to do what before, who's doing what's wrong or who happens to do what's right, but what's the way out of it. That's the role of politicians. Then don't be surprised how much citizens like us. I don't blame them. Eleven months is a nation in trouble, forgive me for saying that word, it's hard to test, and politicians have a vital task to get them out of this tearful valley, not to realize it, they haven't even been able to show off some light at the end of the tunnel. The government is undoubtedly responsible, and I have to say clearly that there are inappropriate screams to the opposition, that they will be blamed. Yes, even opposition politicians are a politician and can't give up their responsibilities, but the government has the ultimate responsibility for this situation, and that is to act in the first place, to seek solutions, to create agreements, and to simply be the first to move. And admit to yourself that it was not always, or very often, that it was not. The shift in those 11 difficult months hasn't come close to none. That's a legitimate criticism. It just isn't possible to be in almost the same state for 11 months, i.e. with this dislodgement, which then turned out to be a new difficult situation - it just can't be counted on. We are also witnessing various incredible situations. The KSČM will support the emergency here five times, and the sixth comes up with the possibility that we can do it without emergency. Well, in that case, you should know your way around it. Or did colleagues really realize that at the famous speed of lightning? That the KSČM Members are upset that the Prime Minister has not fulfilled what he promised them, I understand. That's what they're supposed to deal with him, but again, not drag citizens into it and actually take them hostage to the things that are inside the coalition and the tolerant ones. Such a clean solution, if it doesn't work, should be the end of the government's tolerance, and not as in one case get angry and in such a serious situation suddenly change your mind. I really do not understand this, and I think many citizens with me. [[21.10 hours]] Apparently, the emergency situation here, according to the numbers, won't be, and the world won't stop spinning, but it's not gonna make things any easier either. And the lightening was supposed to come, and it was going to be in an emergency. Education and education are one of the most relegated terms. I could join a colleague sitting just outside of me, a colleague of Černochová, who was talking about it. I'm not going to repeat it because she said the important thing, but I miss a really flexible, permanent strategy with regard to education. This isn't about the minister showing up and disappearing. With this important session here, and it's a central topic, I'd assume that the Minister of Education will react here ten times and work closely, not just remotely with the Minister of Health, with the Prime Minister and others. That's almost not happening here, so it doesn't really impress the people who are watching it. Those kids, the kids, the students, almost a year out of school. This is a loss that, in my opinion, a teacher's opinion, they will never catch up in their lives. I'd almost say if it was just a little bit possible to put it back that whole year. But I am repeatedly convinced by various colleagues that this is not possible. I know it would bump into a lot of things, but the loss is really inconspicuous and worse than the loss of economics. I'm sure they'll be easier to catch up with. And then the really inexplicable things: ZUŠKY, one on one, whether a piano or some other instrument. A teacher and a student can wear a drape. It's not possible to move this at least. The obvious little thing, and instead, we hear it's some kind of leisure activity. You know how this both pisses off teachers and students and those who don't actually have other alternatives today. So here I think there's a big debt. Same ski resorts. I understand how risky he is - I understand, and the Minister as a doctor is certainly a greater expert on this than I am - certainly a risk to run it. But we see it in the surrounding countries, and what is much worse and much more risky, even with doctors I consulted them, those uncontrolled raids into the mountains, when people are riding on everything that is at hand, after the long and hard finances of the modified slopes. That is also not possible to observe. Furthermore, skiareal owners claim that they did everything they could to ensure that there was an anticocoid regime or anticocoid measure. Well, at least I'd like to hear if that's true or not, and if that's what they're saying. They just don't say it in the void. I have come across several such letters where they have sworn in, and when it works in Austria, I believe that they can do so with us. People just need to have light at the end of the tunnel. The worst of all is frustration that has no end. Every week, every day of these limitations, when there's no hope of change, it's just very long. There is clearly a need for revision of these measures, their greater flexibility, and I would say some lightening. Everyone will understand that there must be some measures and that they must accept something. But it can't be the same without moving back or forth. So I would like to ask especially those who have the greatest responsibility, members of the government, to think about it and regardless of whether there will be an emergency or there will be no emergency and there will be some other, otherwise named crisis measures, these things have been shifted and a clear strategy in all those important areas offered to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u73	Thank you. And now Mr Václav Klaus will speak for the debate and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Minister, good evening, briefly, Tricolore's position. It's past 9:00, so I'm gonna stick to the facts. For almost a year now, children have not been in school, for almost a year many of the Czech economy have failed, a year ago when the state budget of the Czech Republic began to collapse. Those are the facts. The other facts are that the measures didn't work or ever worked. It didn't even work in the spring, we had the Australian model, we had the borders closed, no one allowed here, people cooperated almost completely and the covid left. But he left in all the countries where he didn't have any measures, he just disappeared by some mystery in the spring. Since then, in the fall wave, we can't say that any measures are working. The virus is coming in, retreating, certainly not according to Mr. Hamáček's will or several ministers. Distance learning doesn't work, and compensation to companies doesn't, of course, work on the substance of the matter. It's not the government's fault, it's just not possible. So the only solution is opening schools, opening the economy. The measures are not working, and the government is actually asking for the same diction for the same reasons: there is now a situation, hold still for 14 days, then maybe it won't. There's no change in that. There has been a change in the opposition and, therefore, in the Communist Party that has supported this so far. Our position as Tricolors was the same from the beginning. Kids go to school, adults go to work. So we didn't have to change anything, we're voting the sixth time against an emergency. But here are some who first dodged on such popular artistic creativity that, from what I heard, the pirát were co-authors of the invention of a traffic light with then Minister Vojtěch. Now they have noticed that the people's mood is changing, people are already really very angry and desperate, so now they are also talking about opening schools and so on. What's interesting is that most of them, as some of them mentioned here, wanted to support the emergency situation in the morning, but they were afraid it wasn't just them. We are not one of those quasi-opposed parties. Our position is about this: we want the immediate opening of schools, small shops, services such as barbershops and the like, lifts and cable cars, restaurants under strict sanitary measures. On the contrary, if the government had kept the emergency situation for the purchase of vaccines without a selection procedure, strategic items and raw materials, protective equipment, military leadership and integrated systems, but also for example the occupation of citizens and officials in places where they are needed, we could understand this. But there's no such thing here. We're actually getting the same 6th draft of a blockdown that doesn't work, and that's why we're not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u75	Thank you and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will now speak, at this time the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u76	Thank you for the floor. It was said here whether we could handle this crisis better or worse, whether we did everything we could or didn't do. It sounded from the Vice Prime Minister. Well, Madam Vice Prime Minister, worse. The number of victims, the number of infected: worse. Economic impacts: worse than the others. And what is the prerequisite for managing a crisis like a pandemic? In other crises, the decision-making of the government, the right decision-making of the government, can really be enough. But in a crisis like the pandemic, you also need the cooperation of all citizens, all of us who live in this society. Without this, we cannot cope with this crisis. We can't handle it! Strategic communication and communication with citizens is not something extra, as the Minister may think, but it is a fundamental prerequisite for us to cope with this crisis. I was talking about it a few months ago in this place. The prerequisite for managing this crisis is that all citizens understand what the government is doing, accept it and act accordingly. Because you can take any measure, you can put on any force, but if each of us doesn't behave responsibly in our daily lives, you don't have a chance to handle this. You don't stand a chance. Strategic communication is not an extra thing. Strategic communication is a prerequisite for managing this crisis. And that is something that is also the responsibility of the government and in which the government has completely failed. I'm looking at former Minister Vojtěch over there. We were sitting here last August. So I also sat with Minister Prymula and the current Minister. In short, this is one of the biggest mistakes this government has made. [[21.20 hours]] Yes, a lot of other mistakes have been made. I could tell here as colleagues how tracking is actually such a panoptics, how people have not been called, how things went wrong in many areas, but if you leave out this part, which is a fundamental prerequisite for all of us living in this society to understand these measures, to accept them and then act according to them, and with no emergency situation, you can't succeed with any measure, because emergency conditions may control people at stops, in public transport, but if they don't accept it, they won't act accordingly, so you won't watch them behave at work, how they behave at home, how they behave responsiblyfully, if they limit contacts. In short, strategic communication, communication with every person who lives here is a fundamental prerequisite for managing this crisis. I would like to thank Dominik Ferim, who actually did a lot of this for the government. I was also prepared, and many of you know it, to offer many experts who wanted to help. We're not going to find out today if the fact that people behave differently, if it's misinformation that you've also let go completely free, if it's economic pressure, but the fact is, and it's just very disturbing that only 20 percent of those who are hospitalized in the hospital today had been taken before. That means 80 percent of those who got sick ended up in the hospital, and they didn't even get tested before. That's a very serious matter. We are in a situation where 60 percent of social workers refuse vaccination, and whether it was misinformation or any other reason, it is a mistake in government communication. If you push everything with force, restrictions, and you don't get citizens, each of us for not only where a cop is standing next to me, but behind closed doors, where I work, where I am at home, acting responsible, there's no chance of coping with this crisis. After all, you must know that 45 percent of citizens do not stay home when they have symptoms. This means that much of the company refuses to cooperate. And when we are dealing with pandemics - we are not dealing with another crisis, we are dealing with pandemics, and the management of this pandemic is completely dependent on the fact that each of us living in this society will behave accordingly. It is so that even 45 percent, and it is all the surveys you know, considers today when we have 17,000 dead, when we are really in serious condition, to consider this pandemic as a media bubble. I would like to say that I myself do not consider pandemic a media bubble, and I am consistent. That is why, in the spring, I wrote to the ministers, the Prime Minister, to learn from countries such as Taiwan, which, despite a large number of measures, has open schools, a functioning economy, still 1,000 infected, and after nine months died the first dead again. And there's a lot of good practice we could take. We have completely underestimated this, and now we are in a situation where there is no emergency - a state of emergency. If the data looks the way it is, that means that half, maybe more than half of the people won't cooperate - and that is the responsibility of the government, because strategic communication is the basis of crisis management, and that, in fact, today, the situation is what it is, you are responsible for it, and no emergency situation will help you. If people don't believe you, they won't understand you, and they won't behave accordingly, so no measures will work, and therefore a great request from this place. Each of us cares if the schools are open, if the shops are open, because one thing is what happens today. We are prepared to negotiate, it has been said repeatedly here, but if communication with citizens is not part of the government's work to trust citizens, and it will be such that more than half of the citizens will not be able and willing to accept measures for any reason and we will only have it built on listening to where the police will be, we simply have no chance of getting out of this crisis situation. I think it is in the interests of all of us to overcome this as quickly as possible, because this crisis has really very serious health and economic implications. I am very sorry that the government is not paying attention to this area, has really completely resigned from communication, and it does not bother you that tens of percent of the people in this society do not respect these measures. This cannot really be achieved by being a cop around every corner, but only by being responsible for each other's responsibility and trust. Not for the government, but for each other, because the effects are really extremely serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u77	Thank you, Madame. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný will now speak with priority rights, and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will also be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting is very long, but as has already been said here, and just recently, almost in its conclusion, we have been able to discuss many things today, and many things may have happened for the first time today. It is clear that we are all aware that the situation is difficult. We all agreed that it was serious, and no matter how it was voted today, we all agreed that it should not be a signal that we should stop following the set-up. Otherwise, the situation would have become really critical. I would like to mention once again that the emergency situation is only a technical way in which the necessary measures can be allowed effectively and legally. True, there are other ways, but they are more complex and less effective. Moreover, they would be an extreme burden for the regions and the captains, and it seems that we would come here again to declare an emergency after a state of danger has been declared in all regions. We know we have to do everything we can to get the kids back to school soon. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education have already started working on this. We know that vaccination must continue. We know we have to submit a pandemic law in two weeks. We know that we want to talk to each other about how to adapt the existing measures, and that we want to approve the budget and cultivate compensation. I think we've spent a very meaningful day today, and once again, as a non-protective doctor, I'm going to ask you to find a way together to support an extension of the emergency situation today. Not because of the emergency situation itself, but as a way of helping the regions, as a way of finding a common ground and keeping the health system functioning. That's why I want you, as at the beginning of today, to ask you to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now speak for the KSČM club and Mr Výborný will be prepared, who has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would only ask you how President Filip has read the resolution that we are submitting to you for a decision, so if you would look at it, because we had to give it a little bit, let's say, legislatively technically, amend it and add one sentence to comply with the legislation in force. [[21.30 hours]] So we're essentially releasing point I because that's the point of today's negotiations. This means that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of this, of course it is coming out here. However, at the second point, if you look at it, it will sound like this this time - it is basically the same, but it is a little legislativeally technically modified: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to discuss and submit to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic an amendment to the Public Health Act and a pandemic plan." Basically, it's preserved the way it was there. And then, point III remains, but it will, of course, be referred to as point II, and the original point IV, at the end of the text "social care facilities" is supplemented by a comma and a text "for the duration of the pandemic state," because if we are talking about the army, we have to say at what time it is. This means the current point IV. - or the original proposal IV. - "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Defence to discuss with the Chief of Staff the measures that he can take in his command in favour of remaining members of the Army of the Czech Republic in medical and social care facilities during the pandemic state." That's the supplement. So just to add that, the rapporteur has been informed. I thank my colleagues who have brought this to our attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u81	Thank you. And if the MP has finished his speech and won't say anything else on the microphone - or will you restock it yet, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u82	No, I'm sorry, we were still working with the rapporteur, as I read. That means, I repeat: yes, I will give it to you. And let me just give you two quick reactions to some performances. The Minister of Education has basically expressed himself, but I see his speech as very weak, although he still pointed to the KSČM as a party that is - yes, I am very glad that you are aware and that you have all added to the fact that the KSČM has raised the topic of children's return to schools and is gradually joined by other bodies or parties here in the Chamber of Deputies. And my colleague Mihola - I would recommend, through the President, that you, my colleague, if you wish, listen to my whole speech again, because you said a lot of things that you didn't understand at all. So I think if you hear it again and hear the arguments, you'll understand. If you don't, it happens sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u83	Thank you. Mr Marek the Výborný will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u84	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, I will not be very long, because all the important things have already been said here before me by representatives of the coalition SPOLU, ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, but I would like to present here a motion for a resolution for the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, which we are in the framework of AntiCovid team - as we try to work together and give incentives repeatedly, it is sometimes how when you throw games on the wall, but we try, and we will not stop doing so regardless of how this vote will turn out today. The resolution I'm about to read, I'm going to introduce you to him, and I'm going to ask for support, is based on what we have repeatedly presented to the Prime Minister and the government coalition as a basis for discussing today's extension of the emergency situation. Repeatedly, last time this morning, we weren't heard. Repeatedly, what we want to discuss with the government was not reflected at all in order to really help the people who are waiting for it. The motion for a resolution therefore reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic I. to present without delay a functional pandemic law or other proposals in the context of crisis legislation which will enable the government and the regions needed to operate in the solution of the COVID-19 pandemic; II. In order to work intensively with the regions through the Central Crisis Staff and the various departments to manage the pandemic, including the delivery of vaccines and medical supplies, financial and material assistance - here I just submit, this item responds to the supposed failure to approve the extension of emergency status and, from our point of view, the key thing where the government and individual departments and the integrated rescue system and the Central Crisis Staff are not to resign from working with individual commanders, regional crisis teams, because that is the only way to manage the pandemic; III. to take steps without delay to increase and speed up the supply of vaccines against COVID-19, even beyond the supply already concluded within the framework of the European Union's order; IV. to discuss without delay the proposal of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for the gradual easing of schools for presentation in order to ensure the protection of teachers and pupils, both by means of non-invasive testing of pupils and by means of priority teacher vaccination; V. to prepare a programme for the rescue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the form of the remission of contributions from businessmen and social insurance contributions for small companies, i.e. the renewal of the Antivirus C programme; VI. that it does not block the accelerated negotiation of the compensation law, which would save bankrupt firms and entrepreneurs as a result of government measures in the fight against the pandemic COVID-19. The seventh point, which is not numbered and which is not directed to the government, and we will also ask for support, and I advise in advance that individual points can be voted separately and separately, so the last point is an appeal to citizens of the Czech Republic: "The Chamber of Deputies urges all citizens of the Czech Republic to continue to comply with all preventive measures in order to manage the COVID-19 pandemic as quickly as possible with mutual consideration and responsibility, respecting government and regional regulations." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u85	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? Yes, Mr. Chairman of the Pirates' Club, Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u86	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been constructive many times in recent months and we have worked with the government to address the pandemic in the case of covid. We've got an emergency extension again today, and I'm telling you, I'm not even gonna raise my hand today. Because we've been prolonging the emergency for four months, and where did we get to? We got third place in the world's ranking of the dead. We have about 130 people dying every day, which is 80 percent more than the average of the European Union. And now there's another wave of mutated coronavirus coming at us. Please let us all remember how it started. In June, Prime Minister Babiš exterminated the pirát to warn about the second wave of pandemics that we're scaring people and they don't need a plan. During the holidays, Prime Minister Babiš paid for the Facebook ad that the virus was weakening, and at the end of August ordered the Minister of Health Vojtěch to cancel wearing robes. In September, the situation got quietly, but it got exponentially worse, and the numbers were clear, on September 18, we told the Prime Minister that the situation was critical, that he should put in place an emergency situation, if necessary, in order for the state to handle it. The government did not put in place an emergency until October 5th, a long 17 days later. In the meantime, the number of cases increased by a total of 58 percent at an exponential rate, while in the European Union the increase was only 30 percent. It's not that people aren't disciplined, it's that the government gained the trust that we really all went along in the spring, and we did it, so it blew it up and it went wrong. However, if you have seen and heard what I have seen and heard, you will not raise your hand to prolong the emergency situation either. One of the key people in the epidemic told me that the Prime Minister solves problems like this: Mr. Minister, just throw it at someone, you know that's how it works. Everyone around the Prime Minister is somewhere between compassion, anger and horror. I've heard today that the number of deaths is not a problem, the pandemic law doesn't know what it is, because the law doesn't read, and we haven't dealt with you because we had communists, the health minister doesn't solve the vaccine, because I'm dealing with it, it's not a precaution, because in February, if you don't delay it, you're gonna kill people. It's just that the Prime Minister is running it like an irresponsible racket. And I'm very glad to hear the support from my ANO colleagues here, who are definitely upset about it, too. [[21.40 hours]] This country no doubt needs an emergency. It's needed by hospitals and paramedics whose work I bow deeply to. He's needed by the chieftains and mayors who deal with the situation in the regions and villages, but not in the hands of a madman. If the government doesn't learn a lesson and we don't take action, more people will die than if we end the emergency now. That is why we need to get the government to move forward really, the situation has improved, and we saved those people. It will be much better if the pandemic is dealt with by the Central Crisis Staff, which has to deal with it together with the Governors, and the government will provide them with maximum and effective support. I think it's great that thanks to colleagues, including Olga Richterová, better motivation to stay home during quarantine has been moved. But why didn't the government present the pandemic law to which we've been pushing it since April, and last month we even wrote it to them in paragrafo? Why does negotiations begin on such important things as extending the emergency situation, essentially on our initiative, and the Prime Minister asks for an extension meeting half an hour before the House's meeting? Why do the pirát have to keep tabs on measures in Austria, where they may have mandatory respirators in public transport, for the government? How is it that the government doesn't pay the bankrupt businessmen that she shut down the shop to keep them from starving to death and drives them into black business? There are, of course, compensatory bonuses, but those compensations to be paid under Section 36 of the Crisis Act are almost not paid. That's why we want the government to get over it. Furthermore, the necessary measures will apply, such as the sale through the window under the Public Health Act, where food services are restricted. In addition, make up for some of the sales. Furthermore, there may be restrictions on trade visitors, strict hygiene rules on services. May mandatory respirators be introduced in public transport and long-distance transport if the government provides appropriate support to those who need it so that they can afford them. Within 14 days, we can pass the pandemic law so that people can see the light at the end of the tunnel. The law will also allow compensation and transfer of officials who usually control pubs or EETs to regional sanitary stations and the deployment of the army. For some time now, we have to make do with the basis that is testing and tracing, and where it still doesn't work as it should. We trust conventional methods of solving pandemics. Let's stick to the paraphrase that if we have a lack of tracking, we're going to eliminate these shortcomings, not the whole tracking system and the fight against pandemics. We have also proposed - and I am glad that the Communists and other parties have come up with this - that the government prepare a plan for children's return to schools, including the gargling tests they are preparing, and it is good that the Minister is working on it. Of course, the vaccination of seniors will continue in parallel. And what will not be possible in an emergency state will be handled by the commanders in a state of danger, such as the work obligations needed to equip some hospitals. At the same time, we must say that even those students who work there deserve decent money for their work in health care. Motivation should above all be positive, not by forcing them to do so through government measures or by the governor. I'm sure we agree with the government on one thing. It's not funny, it's not party time. The end of the emergency doesn't mean we can let go. On the contrary, the rationalization of measures must take place in order for exhausted people to follow them more closely. I have turned to all other colleagues, club presidents this afternoon, and I am pleased that some of them have also presented here proposals for resolutions based on what I have recommended as the headings on which the Chamber of Deputies should express itself so that we send out a clear signal that this is not the end of the emergency situation. We propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies first of all state that, unlike the spring wave, the situation under the current emergency situation is out of control and requires a significant change to the current strategy to combat the pandemic. Secondly, it calls on the Government to systematically expand its testing and tracing capacities, as well as incentives and compensatory measures for the population, thereby ensuring the transition as quickly as possible to the state of contact between the routers. Thirdly, it calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for a legislative regulation of the pandemic state no later than Tuesday, 16 February 2021. This is the proposal that we have already tabled to the Government in paragrafo. Fourth, it asks the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a plan for the return of pupils to schools by 28 February 2021 at the latest. Fifthly, it appeals to the government to ensure the necessary preparation for ending the emergency situation before the end of the emergency situation and to provide the regions with all support in preparing for and during the emergency situation, because by ending this emergency situation, the government does not renounce its responsibility. On the contrary, its support and money from the taxpayers' money it manages must continue to be spent through mechanisms that will continue to work even after the emergency has ended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u87	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? It's not. Then we can proceed to the vote. I will ask the rapporteur when the resolution is passed on to her. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u88	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, after six hours of discussion, which has taken place here on the extension or non-extension of the emergency situation, let me recapitulate all the proposals that have been made here. Three motions for accompanying resolutions have been tabled. One proposal in the order of representatives of the Communist Party, after which the motion for a resolution was tabled by the pirát - no, the pirát were the last, but a colleague brought it to me before Mr Výborný, but as it was recorded, I will take it. So the second motion was submitted by Mr. Excellent for KDU-ČSL, for ODS and for TOP 09. After that, then, President Michálek tabled a motion for a supplementary resolution for the Pirate Party. In addition, we have two proposals: an original government proposal proposing an extension of the emergency period until 16 March, and a counter-proposal by Mr Juránek, which proposes an extension of the emergency period until 28 February 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, we have always voted in the supplementary resolution only after the resolution on the extension or non-extension of the emergency situation, only at the last meeting it was the other way around. As part of the procedure, I propose that we hold the majority vote that we have held here, and the additional resolution has been voted at the end, not before. Next thing you know, I want to make a deal. If we have more than one proposal - which we have, we have Mr Juránek's proposal - I could, in theory, not vote in an indicative vote. But once again, I would stick to the established tradition that if there were more proposals, I would vote Orientally. In the context of an indicative vote, I will then vote on the one who received the greatest support, which would be voted first. There are important votes in favour, we do not care who was opposed and who abstained. The proposal, which will receive more support, will then be voted first. But now I would stick to the proposals as they came when I set the indicative vote. That means the first would be a government proposal, and the second would be Mr. Juránek's proposal. Which receives more support, will then be voted first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u89	Yes, it is a procedure which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u90	We discussed this with the House's leadership that I will give this proposal for an indicative vote, though I may not, because we have only two proposals, but we are sticking to the conservative approach that has been going on here in the past. [[21.50 hours]] So, ladies and gentlemen, are you clear on the procedure? Soon as we approve the procedure, I will put to the vote an indicative proposal, first the Government, after which Mr Juránek. Which gets more support, which I'll put to the vote first. I will then put a per partes vote on every resolution tabled by the Communists, the SPOLU - KDU, the ODS, the TOP-09 - and the Pirates. Everything will be voted per partes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u91	Yes, there was a draft procedure. We will now vote on the draft procedure as presented by the rapporteur. I called Members and Members to the Chamber a moment ago. Of course, I'll ask if anyone has any counterproposals regarding the procedure? He doesn't. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out, please log in with my voting cards again. And we can proceed to the vote. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 107 Members registered, for 106, against no one. We've approved the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u92	I think we can agree that the procedure does not matter more than agreed, but I would also ask the President of the MPs who have a larger number of Members here to agree which of them will vote to hold the agreement. Thank you. The procedure has been approved, Mr Vice-President, so now I do not have to vote explicitly on the procedure under the indicative vote that we agreed on. Let us now vote on a government proposal requesting an extension of the emergency by 30 days until 16 March 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u93	Yes. Indicative vote, we vote only in favour. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? There's no point, I'm sorry, we're voting in favour. Voting number 23, 106 Members signed in for 48. And we will vote on the second proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u94	Thank you. The second proposal in the context of an indicative vote is Mr Juránek's proposal, which proposes an extension of the emergency period until 28 February 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u95	Initiating vote. Who's in? [[The rapporteur reiterates that, once again, we are voting only in favour, need not vote against or abstain.]] Voting number 24, 106 Members signed in for 48.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u96	Thank you. So, Mr Vice-President, the number was the same in the case of the government proposal as in the case of the People's Party. In that case, I'd stick to voting the government proposal first. [[The noise in the hall.]] Does anyone else have a proposal other than me that we will now vote on a government proposal originally submitted by the Government of the Czech Republic, as amended by the request for an extension of the emergency by 30 days until 16 March 2021?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u97	Is there another suggestion? It's not. We will therefore vote, as the rapporteur has proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u98	The orientation vote came with a tie. So at this point, I'm putting the logic to vote on the first proposal, which was the first proposal, and that's the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u99	That is true, and there was no objection, even though I called for an alternative proposal, so we will follow this recommendation. At the moment, we will vote on this motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 16 March 2021'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 106 Members registered, for 48, against 49. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u100	Thank you. We can therefore now, Mr Vice-President, vote on all the resolutions tabled by the various clubs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u101	We still have to vote on the second proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u102	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We still have to vote on the second proposal, which received the same 48 votes in the indicative vote. It is Mr Juránek's proposal, which proposed an extension of the emergency period until 28 February 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u103	Yes, so I will formally read the whole resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 28 February 2021'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 106 Members signed in for 48, versus 34. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u104	Thank you. We can therefore now vote on the various resolutions tabled by the political clubs. I will start with a proposal submitted by representatives of the KSČM, which is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we know what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u106	"The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to discuss and submit to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health and to submit an amendment to the pandemic plan of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u107	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 105 Members signed in for 52, versus 4. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u108	Another proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Health to lay down general conditions for the measures of individual KHS, regional health stations, to declare measures under the Public Health Act." This is also a proposal from representatives of the Communist Party."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u109	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 105 Members registered, for 54, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u110	Another proposal from the representatives of the Communist Party is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Defence to discuss with the Chief of Staff the measures that he can take in his command in favour of remaining members of the Army of the Czech Republic in health and social care facilities during the pandemic state."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u111	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 105 Members registered, for 56, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u112	And the last draft from the pen of representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is this: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Interior to take measures that can be taken within the integrated rescue system to ensure the implementation and control of the measures taken under the Public Health Act."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u113	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30. 105 Members registered, for 52, versus 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u114	Now we can move on to the supplementary resolution from the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, which has six points that we will vote per partes, and one point that is not numbered, which is more or less such a declaration, and the latter read Výborný as the last, so I will put it to a vote after voting for the six. So: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present a functional pandemic law without delay, or further proposals in the context of crisis legislation that will enable the government and regions to operate in the solution of the COVID-19 pandemic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u115	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31. 105 Members registered, for 52, versus 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u116	"II. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to cooperate intensively with the regions through the Central Crisis Staff and the various departments to manage the pandemic, including the delivery of vaccines and medical material, financial and material assistance."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u117	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32. 105 Members registered, for 43, against 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u118	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take steps without delay to increase and speedily supply vaccines against COVID-19, even beyond already closed deliveries under the European Union's order."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u119	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 33. 105 Members registered, for 52, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u120	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to discuss without delay the proposal of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to gradually easing schools for presentation teaching in ensuring the protection of teachers and pupils, both by means of non-invasive testing of pupils and by means of priority teacher vaccination."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u121	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 34. 105 Members registered, for 53, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u122	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a programme for the rescue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the form of the remission of contributions from businessmen and social insurance contributions for small companies, the renewal of the Antivirus C programme."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u123	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35. Written by 105 Members, for 54, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u124	"VI. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic not to block the accelerated negotiation of the compensation law, which would save bankrupt companies and entrepreneurs as a result of government measures in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u125	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 36. Announced 104 Members, for 47, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u126	And the final proposal from the KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ODS reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies urges all citizens of the Czech Republic to continue to comply with all preventive measures, despite the end of the emergency situation, in order to manage the COVID-19 pandemic as quickly as possible, with mutual consideration and responsibility and respect government and regional regulations."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u127	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37. Announced 104 Members, for 49, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. This has exhausted the second proposal tabled by Mr Mr Výborný and representatives of three parties. We are left with the last, supplementary resolution tabled by the representatives of the Pirate Party, this resolution has five points and we will also vote per partes. So: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I states that unlike the spring wave, the situation in the context of the current emergency situation is out of control and requires a significant change to the current strategy to combat the pandemic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u129	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 38. 103 Members registered, for 46, versus 2. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u130	Next: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to systematically expand the capacity of testing and tracing, as well as incentives and compensatory measures for the population, to ensure that contacts are routed to a functional state as quickly as possible."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u131	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39. Announced 104 Members, for 34, versus 4. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u132	"III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a draft legislative regulation of the pandemic state by Tuesday 16 February 2021 at the latest."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u133	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 40. Registered 102 Members, for 22, versus 5. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u134	"IV. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to present to the Chamber of Deputies a plan for the return of pupils to schools by 28 February 2021 at the latest."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u135	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41. Announced 102 MPs, for 47, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u136	And lastly, fifthly: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic appeals to the Government to ensure the necessary preparation for its termination before the end of the emergency situation and to provide the regions with all support in preparation and during the course of the danger situation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u137	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, 103 Members registered, for 31, versus 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u138	Mr Vice-President, at this point in time, I can say that we have exhausted all the points we have had to vote on, whether those relating to proposals for an emergency date or additional resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u139	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. However, with priority rights for the Member's Club, Mr. Výborný and then President Bartoš is signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u140	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially you colleagues, a fellow Member of the ANO movement. I fully respect that you will not support the accompanying resolution by which the opposition is seeking to appeal or to call on the government to do something. I get that. That's perfectly normal. But if there is a motion for a resolution that is an appeal to the public: act responsibly, considerately, then explain to me...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u142	So it's simple, you just tell people to act like the gang in Teplice with Benda and Co.! That's it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u143	Calm down, please! President Ivan Bartoš will take the floor with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u144	Thank you for the floor. I would perhaps add two things to Mr Výborný that should not escape. On the other hand, I think that as the Prime Minister has said today, there is a new time when, notwithstanding the outcome of today's vote, he will start to cooperate across the parties and that our meeting today is certainly not the last. So here's the aforementioned pandemic law. He was mentioned by Jakub Michálek, who had already sent Mr Blatný on 20 January. The Prime Minister said of him this morning at the meeting: "You should have had that today, Mr. Blatný. So this resolution, where we said that the law should be discussed urgently, the government majority or parties that support the government did not approve it either. That seems strange to me when Minister Blatný gets whipped today, how he doesn't have it yet, and the will to confirm the law here so that at least this morning's meeting has some continuation here in resolutions that the government doesn't follow much in history, so that didn't happen here, and it seems strange to me, because today we have already started dealing with regional representatives over what synergies we can provide them with. I have met with the representatives of the chieftains for the pirát and for the starosta, and that the government, even for this good practice - and Minister Hamáček has probably already dealt with the Regional Association - cannot raise their hand here either, because it is important to communicate with the regions, it also seems like a very special moment. So I hope it was just a slap for the fact that the Chamber of Deputies here in the majority decided that they would not support the current emergency situation, but that we would sit at that table in the finals. Probably not today, but I hope that early tomorrow morning will begin to act on how to continue, how to implement real measures that will help in this transition and then lead to the management of this wave of pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-11-ps2017-083-01-002-002.u145	Thank you. I note that item number 3, which has been approved in the agenda of the 83rd meeting, cannot be addressed now because we will not fit into the time that we have approved. It follows that I am interrupting the 83rd session indefinitely, but I remind all Members and Members that in 10 minutes we will continue the suspension of the 79th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So at 22.24 hours there will be a continuation of the 79th meeting.
