ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-000-000.u1	Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, if some hear us, before we begin the 105th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you all that ten minutes after the end of the sitting, we will continue the adjourned 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and we will continue the adjourned 102th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the next ten minutes. And now I am opening the 105th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I have checked us all out, and I ask you all to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday 20 May this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. [[Gong.]] I propose that we appoint a Member, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová and a Member, Jiří Mihola. With the gong, I've called my colleagues to the ballroom, but at this point, we don't have enough to vote, so a moment of patience... For Members who have come and completed our number so that we can vote, I say that we will vote on the designation of verifiers within this meeting, and the proposal is for Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr Jiří Mihola. I see our numbers are already sufficient. So if anyone has no other proposal or anybody objects, then I'm opening the vote on the designation of verifiers. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 1 of this meeting 87 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against no one. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr Jiří Mihola, as verifiers of the 105th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am saying that before the opening of the meeting, Mr Razd, Mrs Kořanová, Mrs Razd, Mr Razd, for Majerová of work, for Bartoš of work, for Karel of work, Mr Razd, Mr Razd, Mr Razd, Mr Razd, Mr Jiří Běhounek for Pastuchová of work, Mr Petr Beitl for Rais of work, Mr Josef Bělica for reasons of work, Mr Jana Levová for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Bláha for Vildumetzová of work, Mr Marian Pavel for Nacher of work, Mr Milan Brázdil for reasons of work, Mr Brzobohatá Babišová for Michal of health, Mr Řehounek Černochová for reasons of work, Mr Jana Čižinský for Kolovratník of work, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr for Ratiborský of work, Mr Kamal Farhan for Kasal of work, Mr Petr Fiala for Zahradníková of employment, Mr Petr Roman Foldyna, for Jakub of health Pavel, Mr Petrzdek, Mrs Gazdík, for Adamová of Parliament, for Pekarová of Parliament, for Staněk of Parliament, for Onderka of Parliament, for reasons of Parliament, for Tureček of the Šindelář Parliament for Růžička of the European Parliament on 16 of the European Parliament, for reasons of the European Parliament for Mračková of the European Parliament's. Mr Jiří Valenta within 12 hours for work reasons, Mrs Helena Válková for health reasons, Mr Valenta is already present, so he withdraws his apology, Mr Petr Venhoda for work reasons, Mr Václav Votava for health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Vymazal for health reasons, Mr Radek Zlesák for work reasons and Mr Pavel Žáček for work reasons. Furthermore, for reasons of work, Minister Jan Hamáček, Minister Karel Havlíček, Minister Jakub Kulhánek, Minister Jana Maláčová for reasons of employment, Minister Lubomír Metnar for reasons of work, Minister Robert Plaga for reasons of health, Minister Alena Schillerová for Marie of Benešová, Minister Miroslav Toman for reasons of foreign travel and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for Babiš of employment since 14.30. Those were some tickets. Among the note cards is Mrs Pekarová Adamová's apology, so if... there's a question of whether she can be a verifier. However, the second verifier should be present, so this should not be a problem. [[Consultation with the staff member of the organizational department.]] So if there's no objection, then we'll proceed like this, or, of course, it can be verified, the course of the meeting, the record. We will now proceed to the 105th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. Nor can the programme be extended. I'll introduce the House to the other note. Mr Jakub Janda apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the working day for working reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting, and the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologises for the introduction of today's 105th meeting, from 9.00 to 9.35 on account of urgent work issues. Now, if anyone has nothing to do with the show, we will vote on the whole proposal for the 105th session of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing at the invitation. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. I believe that all who want to be present are present. [[9.10 hours]] So I'm opening the vote on the agenda. I ask who is in favour of approving the agenda, as it was presented on the invitation. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 2 99 Members and Members are registered, for all 99, against no one. I note that the agenda of the meeting has been approved unanimously. We will now proceed to the first item on the agenda. The first item on the agenda for this meeting is:
