ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 106th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record your participation, I have just checked you out, I will ask you to sign in or tell me who votes with a replacement card. Mr. Home Secretary votes with card number 11. The meeting was convened pursuant to Section 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail 1. 6th of this year. We must, of course, first identify the verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we designate Jana Černochová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion nikdo don't see in the room. I'll still ring the bell and give the co-workers the room to come to the O.R. Mrs Babišová votes with a replacement card. Spare card number 10 - Mrs. Oborná. So I think there's enough of us to vote for the verifier. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number one, registered is 135, for 129, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Černochová, and a Member of Stanislav Berkovec, as verifiers of the 106th meeting. With the replacement card number 17, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip votes. I say that before the opening of the meeting, they asked to apologize for their non-Participation in the meeting... At this point, I have an apology for Mr Jan Birk. They also apologize: Jiří Bláha - working reasons, Jan Čižinský from the morning meeting - health reasons, Alena Gajdůškovášková from 14:00 to 17:00 - working reasons, Petr Gazdík within 13 hours - working reasons, Lenka Kozlová - health reasons, Karla Šlechtová - health reasons, Julius Špičák within 10 hours - working reasons, Helena Válková - health reasons, Václav Votava - family reasons, Radek Zlesák within 13 hours - health reasons. The additional addition, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, apologizes for health reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic can now proceed to discuss a single point of the 106th meeting, which is
