ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 1230/ - 3rd reading I ask that Minister Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Member Lenka Dražilová, take a seat at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the 1230/1 Chambers of Press, which was delivered on 15 July 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 1230/2. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? That's right. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, honourable Members. I'm very glad we met here today at an emergency retirement meeting that we initiated. I hear for almost six months from all sides that pension reform will not be able to make it, however, apart from voting today to increase pensions over statutory valorisation, by either 300 or 500 crowns, so we also have the opportunity today to help women who raised children or also demanding professions. And I think that we should all show today by voting whether we mean it with people who work very hard, seriously and whether we want to help them retire early when their health is ruined, without shortening their pension. Just to remind you. Nearly 90 000 people in the Czech Republic will not reach a pension of CZK 10,000. 672 000 pensioners have a pension of less than 14 000 crowns, and they are women in particular. That is why it is important to support the amendment today so that those who have focused on raising children have lower wages and then lower pensions to receive at least CZK 500 from 2023 for each child raised. It is clear to me that many of you perceive these figures only by the optics of mathematics, but really, imagine that someone worked his whole life, took them into the system, and then they have to live with a pension of less than 14,000 crowns. These people do not have money for rent, medicines, or food, and that is why the amendments tabled by social democracy today need to be approved. [[9.10 hours]] We can't really save money on pensions, because this is a clear signal about whether people who actually do everything right, whether they deserve the support of the state. I often hear that our government only focuses on retired people. It's not true. This week or last week, record unprecedented support for families with children was published in the Collection of Laws. We've increased the child allowance to 500,000 children. We've increased the tax discount. We have agreed together that families who quickly have a second child or a third child can complete their parental allowance. From 1 July, the so-called substitute maintenance is effective, which helps single parents in need if their former partner does not pay maintenance. As far as employees are concerned, the Antivirus programme, the most successful government anti-crisis programme, supported and saved more than one million jobs. The Social Democrats, we Social Democrats, have managed to cancel the Karenary period and, as a result, we have managed the pandemic better than we could without the first three days of sickness. We also increased minimum wage three times. Under our governments, the minimum wage has doubled, so we help elderly people, we help employees, we help families with children. I do not want to speak for a long time today, so that we can quickly approve this amendment, and I therefore ask you to accept the substantive voting procedure proposed by Mr Sklenák, because if the voting procedure proposed by the Social Committee is approved, all the amendments tabled will be excluded and one approved will then exclude all the others. I also ask you to support Mr Roman Sklenák's amendment, which he has proposed since 2023 to all those who were mostly caring, for every child raised. And I also ask you once again to support Mr Onderka's amendment, which proposes that demanding professions may retire earlier, on the basis of the principle for every ten years worked one year earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this amendment of the law. I ask you to help seniors and seniors, and I ask you to help people who work very hard, who raise children and try to lead a good and proper life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you. I'm opening the debate. With the SPD's opinion, Mrs Šafránková is registered, followed by written applications by Mr Jiří Valenta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, let me briefly introduce you to the SPD's position. Our movement has long advocated significant, fair and socially sensitive increases in pensions, namely pensions of all types, both old-age and disabled, as well as survivors. The legal form of valorisation is set in this area in a completely discriminatory way and permanently puts citizens with the lowest pensions at a disadvantage. Also this year's government proposal to raise pensions is completely inadequate and unfair in this respect and does not try to deal with ever-ending imaginary scissors between the amount of their pensions and the others. For the SPD movement, I therefore tabled an amendment to the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which consists of adding CZK 500 per month to the amount of their pension to the citizens whose total monthly income from all types of pensions they are entitled to would be lower than CZK 15 000 per month after the government's proposed increase for 2022 as an exceptional contribution to alleviate the long-term decline in their income and their permanent lag behind other pension recipients. I propose to add this contribution to our pensioners so that, after this special increase, the total amount of all pensions to which they are entitled is no more than 15 000 per month, so that this measure does not harm citizens whose pension is, for example, CZK 15 001 per month or is only very close to the threshold of CZK 15 000. In practice, therefore, a citizen whose pension will be paid after the statutory valuation and the government's three hundred crown increase of 10,000 a month would receive another 500 to him, and a citizen whose pension will be paid after the Valorisation and the government increase of 14 900 would receive a hundred crowns to him. In other words, if, taking into account the statutory valuation and government proposed increase, the total monthly sum of the pensions of one of their beneficiaries is less than CZK 500 less than the amount of 15 000, his pension will be increased by just the amount equal to the difference in the current amount of his monthly pension and CZK 15 000. Thus, our proposal is not discriminatory to anyone, as it seems to be accused of ignorance at times. A truly systemic and effective solution to the difficult situation of low-income pensions is the introduction of a minimum pension, which is the long-term idea of the SPD movement. We filed the relevant bill two years ago. This minimum pension should be around 15 000, increased regularly according to inflation and average wages and should be claimed by all citizens who have fulfilled the legal conditions for entitlement to the pension. From this amount, the total amount of pensions would be calculated individually and with merit. Government parties have rejected this proposal for a long time, but we are not giving up on the SPD, and we will strive to increase pensions by all means, both old-age, disabled and survivors. I ask you to support this proposal and help our low-income citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Valenta, Mrs Valachová will be prepared. [[To Mr Jakob:]] You volunteered with priority rights? I thought you were just telling me you had priority rights, I'm sorry. In that case, Mr Jakob, as vice-chairman of the club, has priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to stress that I sincerely wish all seniors the highest possible pensions that we can afford. It is unbelievable how the Minister particularly at previous readings, but partly today he is touching himself with his fierce struggle for everything according to her good and right in the world, and it is she and the government that is a member that has caused us to unfortunately not afford to raise pensions. However, I would like to appreciate some amendments that lead to a fairer system, whether it is the support of mothers, parents, or an increase in pensions for so-called old-timers, but it is, in particular, a reduction in the high pensions of nomenclature cadres and pre-November papalas. However, the proposal itself and a number of other amendments are extremely irresponsible. They are irresponsible budgetaryly, short-sighted and irresponsible to the future. I understand it's before the election, and populism is squirting from almost every corner of this hall. Face it, you don't care about seniors, you only care about their votes. I have a graph here, as is my good habit. I've been showing him around for several times. This is a graph of the debt ratio of the general government sector to GDP. The source is the National Budget Board. The Minister of Finance is certainly familiar with the chart, but I'm going to haunt you with that graph here until you realize that it's really not funny that you're leading our country into an economic disaster. We'll reach the debt brakes in three years. In 15 years we will reach 100 per cent of debt, 200 per cent in 30 years and 300 per cent in 40 years against GDP. [[9.20 hours]] That's really not funny. The government debt is planned for 500 billion this year, next year for 390, another year for 370 and another 340 billion in 2024. In fact, it will be even more significant - depending on the increase in pensions you approve. In fact this year it will be over 500 billion and for the next three years according to your plan every year unfortunately more than 400 billion crowns. There is an argument in the discussion in previous readings that there will always be for pensions. Make no mistake, it won't. In 2035 the pension system collapses, in 2050 it will not be at all for pensions. Please think about it. Take your wits into your hands and don't just think about the number of votes in the autumn elections. This is about more than that. I am in favour of fair and maximum pensions, not only next year, but also in 10, 20, 30 or 50 years. While many decide to increase pensions by CZK 300 above standard valorisation, which should mean an increase of CZK 450, many would like to increase this amount even more. But realize that you will also owe our country a minimum of 45 billion in the next four years, over 250 billion in the next 20 years, but it may be even more, depending on what you approve. In fact, by voting, you will cause pensions in 5, 10 or 20 years to be lower in real value than they have been so far. Not only will you reduce real pensions in the future due to contemporary populism, but you are also giving another hard blow to the lost generation that this government has criminally created here. Children who are now going to primary schools, especially secondary schools, have been noted for decades in advance. You couldn't provide them with proper access to education, shut them down at home, disrupted their social contacts, and caused a number of psychological complications. And as a bonus, when they deal with it after years, when they become adults, they will support our society, the strength of our development and the engine of the economy, so at that point, the consequences of your current irresponsible, populist policy will fall on them, and the economy will be the ones who will have to deal with it and will be hard to repay your debts. Thank you very much for them. It's absolutely outrageous. Therefore, I strongly warn against your irresponsibleness. How bad the economic situation of our country is, cannot be blamed on the opposition, cannot be blamed on Jakob or Kalousek, and there is no excuse for covid, really not. It is only this populist government YES, ČSSD and KSČM that is responsible for this. I would very much like to vote in favour of the highest possible increase in pensions, but unfortunately, because of where this government has led our country, I cannot. Conscience and responsibility to current and future pensioners and future generations will not allow me to do so. I am very worried that my words on the long-term poor economic development will come to light, but you don't care. You just want to buy popular votes in the autumn elections, and that's not gonna happen to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u7	I now have another priority right here, Mrs Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, our position has been very emotionally expressed by the previous speaker, although it does not sound that way here in this hall, but I think that the appeal is quite clear, and since the TOP 09 has long been in all the laws that we have been discussing here during this parliamentary term and concerning pensions, it has warned against the unsustainable system that we now have and has asked for a clear comprehensive pension reform, we cannot but support this law, which is at the expense of debt. However, one such effort here on our part is that you, who raise your hand for this, appeal to the government in making the next year's budget, so that the increase, which will only burden the year 2022 by increasing by CZK 300 for each pensioner CZK 11 to 12 billion, does not go to debt but to spending savings. If you were honest about your words, which you often say here, seriously, you would come up with such a proposal yourself. You would have come up with the idea that you know where to take this increase, and you wouldn't have taken it out of your pockets, and even from the strollers of those children who are now looking into this world. But you didn't, which is why we're calling you to do it. I have the accompanying resolution on the bill that we are discussing today, and I would like to quote it to you now and ask you to support it, but mainly to call on the government to implement it, because the Chamber of Deputies, with this resolution - I quote - 'calls on the government to rationalise the expenditure of the state budget, b) increasing pensions beyond statutory valorisation, has no longer contributed to the growth of state debt, and c) seeking savings on the part of the operating expenditure of the states and making drawing subsidies from the state budget more effective; II. By 31 August 2021, the Chamber of Deputies hereby instructs the Government to present to the Chamber of Deputies the method of financing an increase in pensions beyond the statutory valorisation for 2022'. It is a very minimalist resolution that we can show that we do not really want to burden not only those generations that are now working age, but that are yet to reach it, another burden, another debt. And as has already been said here, the total sum of the following years is not just the 12 billion, but it is more than 40 billion crowns. That's no more change. And I'm sure you remember that we had very passionate debates here, which were needed before the covid, which changed the perception for many, but also about hundreds of billions, billions in units, we fought very hard here. That's forgotten by many, they pretend that money is growing on a tree or that they have full warehouses, or I don't know how they imagine it, but the fact that we are in unprecedented debt, this country is falling into really hard problems, they don't want to see that anymore. I therefore ask you not to make this gesture of yours, which you are now doing before the elections, which you will definitely approve and vote, so that you do not at least do so with the fact that you will not find savings elsewhere in the state's spending. I think that there is a possibility, we show it every time we discuss the budget, we have always presented it together with our colleagues, we could put it together for tens of billions of crowns in the SPOLU coalition, which bring together savings. So there's a way, only there's no courage in your ranks. And I call you to this courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply sorry, but I could not take it anymore. Your honored speakers here have spoken and appealed to the entire House and to the people who have the opportunity to see us and hear how awful it is that we want to add to the elderly here. They say this republic can't afford it! Every hundred thousand crowns, every half a billion, a billion dollars a coalition here fought for. But ladies and gentlemen of the SPOLU coalition, why didn't you fight like this when the super-gross wage was lifted and the 100-billion-dollar government budget jam got stuck? That's what you applauded at the microphone, you danced fun dances here when the richest were added, because the progression that was at the abolition of the super gross wage added the most to those who least need it, to the rich! But pensions, if it were from today to the future, I might even understand your statement, even though it's perverse, but they haven't grown in 30 years. Pensioners have been saved for 30 years, and now there's a little pressure to add to the elderly, because there's really no living out of the poor money they're getting! And that's why we're here today to really let them live a little. At the time of the covid, everyone was added outside the elderly. Costs are rising everywhere, but pensions are somehow forgotten, and these people often have no way of making money. Let us also think about the fact that they also want to live with dignity, not just businessmen, but also pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u11	De facto remarks have been added. First, President Jurečka, then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u12	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I cannot do this, I have to react briefly now, then I will sign up properly for the debate. Our proposals, which we have put forward as KDU-ČSL, when a fellow communist Leo Luzar here is turning to the fact that the SPOLU coalition does not remember seniors, so I would like to bring his attention to the amendments that concern, for example, an increase of CZK 500 per month to mothers for raised children - those women who have worked 35 years in the Czech Republic have raised today's generation of those who are currently fulfilling their contributions to the ongoing pension system, so I would be happy if you would support this proposal here. There are suggestions regarding widows and widowers. A group of widows and widowers are the people who are most at risk within the social system of seniors, so we want to help those who really need help, given the financial possibilities of this budget of the Czech Republic, so that the scissors begin to cling, so that they do not remain equally open, and therefore do not help those who are really at the bottom of the social system. That is what we are trying to do, and we will be happy when the Communists finally look at the proposals that are being read there, including, on the contrary, proposals that help those who have obtained unfairly high pensions as former communist seniors who have held a totalitarian regime in power for 40 years, have persecuted this nation, so we will be happy if you can support these rational things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, another factual point. Mrs. Černochová canceled it? So Mr Grospič is on the verdict, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My esteemed colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, I will be very brief. I think that if there's someone who doesn't want to raise pensions, old-age pensions, their legal valorisation, and take into account the inflation spiral that hits senior households very hard, it would be very difficult to look for. The proposals that have been made here from the mouth of the KDU-ČSL or the Pirate Club are proposals that lead - even if they may be a good way, for someone well paved - but they lead to hell. They will bring even greater inequality and injustice into our society, and I don't think any of us want that. Therefore, these proposals are unacceptable to the Communist Club of Bohemia and Moravia, whether it concerns one-off increases or, on the contrary, restrictions against a particular group of residents, which had already been affected by the laws until 1995, and was actually done. So, in this context, these matters are unacceptable to us, and I hope that most of my colleagues will also take this into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask my colleague Luzar, by your means, what communists he speaks for, because it was also part of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which supported a super gross wage. Look, my colleague, at the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u17	A factual point, Mr Luzar, then a factual point, Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u18	I would like to respond to this law. I, as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, speak for those seniors who are waiting for a pension, and if you in the coalition of the SPOLU say that you will not support this law, but there are some amendments that could help your groups or certain groups, but you will not support the whole, it is all the more hypocrisy that you claim: we do not want the whole law because it is a bump into the state budget in the order of billions, but we have proudly pushed a bump in a hundred billion in the framework of a supergross wage. We didn't, we demanded, within the framework of a supergross wage and its abolition of progressive resolution, multi-band, five bands, from 70,000 crowns, if we were to be specific. But you made it possible to push it so that the most people get the most income, and not the ones who could really get something out of that super gross wage. Unfortunately, that's the truth. And today, if you look at the budget and what a big cut it is, yes - if something threatened the state budget next year, it's just a super gross wage and its abolition. A pure populist move that was done at the most inappropriate time, and that's the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u19	A point of fact, Mr Brázdil, then Mrs Černochová, then Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u20	Good Friday, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the amendment under the letter G in which the petitioners try to resolve or settle the conditions for early retirement. It's across, it doesn't have politics. You know these people deserve this, and I ask you very much to support the amendment, g. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. A little reminder: a classic example of how a factual comment on factual statements should not be used is to be said in the debate. Mrs Černochová, Mr Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that this is a complex explanation for the representatives of the Communist Party. I also understand that this is difficult to explain to the voters of the Communist Party, but, Mr Luzar, through President Vondráček, you do not lie. The Communists supported the law as a whole, at least part of your club. That's why I asked in the beginning which communist you are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u23	Mr Jurečka with a point of fact, last one at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Mr. Leo Luzar here just moments ago, he was swaying over the fact that he said that at that time the draft tax package helped everyone and helped the medium- and high-income ones. So think again about the proposals we're making here. Today, women who have sacrificed part of their careers have raised children, worked 35 years, have, and this is relentless statistics, an average of CZK 2,000 a month lower pension than the remaining retirees. [[9.40 hours]] We want to help this group of people who are really disadvantaged by the system, because the pension system in the Czech Republic is unfortunately aware of one single merit, namely the merit of the amount of financial earnings for the future assessment base. He doesn't know the generational merit, the merit of raising children, the future generations of productive payers. So we're clearly aiming at what you're pointing out in the other press that it was wrong, but now you don't want to see it. You know this very well, but I understand that there is a certain pose of yours that you want to play here, but we are talking about those who are in the pension system of the Czech Republic in the long term and most affected. They are especially mothers who raised children at the expense of their careers, and they are mainly widows and widowers. That's where our designs are headed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u25	Mr Leo Luzar, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my previous speaker. The problem of the old folks and the new folks you mention a little bit, these are the scissors that are open here, this government hasn't opened up. The Communists didn't open it up, they opened up the changes in the 1990s that were made, and they did it in the days of governments when KDU-ČSL had its ministers, when it was with the government and could solve all this and change it. No, she was holding a chair because she was in minority coalition groups, and she was counting on it to be forgotten. But, colleague, we don't forget. Now, your name is SPOLU, but that part of the guilt that you've been sitting like KDU-ČSL in governments and you haven't done anything for retired people, that's the problem you might be trying to iron on certain groups right now. But let's talk about it: will you support this whole law as a coalition of the CAO? Because that's why the previous speaker, the strongest coalition partner of the ODS, said here at this microphone - we will not support the whole law. So go on as KDU-ČSL: We will support him, say, because it is for these groups and for those pensioners. No, you're going to say once again that you couldn't support it, how you supported before what the ODS advocated, or other governments you were in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u27	Two factual points, Mr Jurečka, then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u28	I have to deny you the obvious untruths you're saying. For example, in the previous coalition government of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, we gave the elderly the opportunity to discount the taxpayer. As a KDU-ČSL we are helping families, those who have an average - and I remind you: a family with two children on average in the Czech Republic has a per capita income of four-member households below the average pension for old-age pensioners. For these population groups, colleagues from the coalition supported the SPOLU repeatedly, and, of course, thanks to most The Chamber of Deputies succeeded, repeatedly increasing the discount not only on the taxpayer, but also on the discounts on the second and third children. So, please, nicely, give the facts the way they are - it's specific things that went to people, to families, to parents, to seniors, the way things have been here in the past. It is a pity that the Communists, for example, have taken on as one of the key topics to support the creation of a national bank, but not to straighten out these injustices, and today, unfortunately, on the basis of other arguments, you are actually explaining that you do not want to support this. So it's just a game instead of telling these people on the fair, we just, seniors, the moms that you raised the kids, so we're not gonna remember you as communists. Just to remind you, I've known a lot of stories about mothers who worked for 35 years, raised three, four, five children, and had a pension of between CZK 3,000 and CZK 5,000 a month in the past 10 years. How's that? The mom who raised those kids, who work properly, how she's supposed to live off it, plus in a situation if she's a widow? That's where the proposals go. That's where we want to correct the injustice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u29	Mr Grospič, a factual point, then Mr Benešík, also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to respond to the question of a super-gross wage. Yes, we supported it as a Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia because we had it in the program and because we considered it highly unfair from the moment the super gross wage was introduced. The fact that, finally, a scenario was adopted that disrupted super gross wages, but did not bring tax progression, that is, the distribution of taxes into wealthier groups or foreign capital, transnational capital, bank capital, that is the second question. But in its consequences, it has brought more income to its own employees, and hence the potential hope that they will be able to buy more consumer goods, for example, to help the economy, or to smash out the burden and fear of failing to cope with their inflation spiral revenues. So, from this point of view, the abolition of the supergross wage was correct. The second fact that the House no longer refused to implement the distribution of tax zones into at least two or three layers was not correct. [[Realize?]] Yes, but the decision to cancel the super gross wage was definitely in favour of the employees. And those above all were the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Benešík, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to arouse passion, but there was something about open scissors. I just wanted to say this experience from our family. My grandmother, who was severely tested by the previous regime, God give her eternal glory, died ninety-four years ago, had 750 crowns of retirement at the time of high real socialism at the end of the 1980s, with the butter costing 10 crowns, so do the math, and the average pension was almost twice that. So the scissors were open back then, and I think they were left open, and that the folklore proposal for us not to put someone on the verge of poverty, but to reduce immoral pensions to those who persecuted those who are so low today is morally correct. [[is]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u33	This concludes a series of factual points, and I am asking Mr Jiří Valenta to speak, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. I'll read a few apologies before my colleague comes. Mr Ivan Jáč cancels his apology, Mr Ivan Jáč is already present, Jiří Kohoutek apologizes today for health reasons, Mr Přemysl Mališ apologizes for family reasons, Mr Krejza apologizes for today's extraordinary meeting for no reason, Mr Petr Třešňák apologizes for family reasons, Mr Martin Kupka apologizes for today's meeting for personal reasons. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Coincidentally, I'll follow up on what my previous speaker said. Ladies and gentlemen, a very typical textbook example of how to break up groups of citizens and sow the seed of internal social hatred is an amendment under 8850, which was tabled by the People's Member Marian Jurečka and which, in principle, contains an unacceptable intervention in calculating the pensions of some groups of Czech citizens, mainly on the basis of a false assumption of collective guilt, which in itself is, in many cases, very controversial. If the author of this amendment felt that anyone had committed a crime against the law in force before 1989, and this, of course, happened, he or one of his colleagues, now so righteously enthusiastic, had long ago filed a criminal report, and not now so awkwardly flattering and very likely to exhibate. After all, now, two months before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, no one can trust them with good intentions who is just a little bit objective and realistic. This collective guilt and any grafting of legal standards on it is really crap from the biggest. And that it is the folks whose ideal predecessors and role models have destroyed the lives of millions of people throughout the planet, and for centuries by violent Catholicization and recatholization that they have not realized, that is very shocking, and they themselves do not feel collective guilt. Today, many members of this supposedly democratic group, on the one hand, are bowing and bowing to the leaders of the Landsmanshaft, addressing them with dear compatriots, completely against the spirit of the triumphant powers that have initiated the rightful and morally justified displacement after World War II, and yet they dare to call on the Czech nation to reconcile, or sometimes even to apologize. But they themselves, more than 30 years after the handover of power in November, undermine the nation's unity and subvert society by casting and caving on those who, in their opinion, are morally satisfactory and on the other - inferior, guilty, suitable for a kind of reeducational form of reduction of old-age pensions. [[9.50 hours]] Now that I'm reading the list of those whose pensions should be artificially shortened for political reasons, I'm just amazed. While the petitioner dares to elevate himself in his proposal to, for example, an ordinary secretary sitting on the Central Committee of the KSČ or the employees in the service of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, issuing travel documents somewhere on the counter, judges and prosecutors operating before 1989 as if this claim of justice, unfortunately only his, was afraid. So not only is he afraid, of course, because many of these judges and prosecutors active today would certainly not like such a clear social economic segregation. Personally, I am also struck by the aspect of how the appellant can change the legal rules for calculating pensions that have been in force here for decades. He forgets that there is an unacceptable principle of retroactivity here, and he wants to change it not only ideologically but also in a rather stupid way. Just one illustrative example for all of us. Marián Čalfa was entrusted with the administration of the government from December 7 to December 10, 1989. At the same time from 3. 12 to 10. 12. 1989 was the first Vice-President of the Government, from April 1988 to 3 December 1989 a minister without a portfolio, which means that he would still be morally unclean in this period, according to Mr Jurečka's amendment. But then when he was Prime Minister since he was 10. The 12th until the 30th of the 12th of 1989, so it was the same optics completely satisfactory. Colleagues, colleagues, do you really not feel this stupidity and attempt to revive this ideological boulder, which is to be brought by us into the present law? However, some imaginary culmination of the senselessness and unnecessaryness of Jurečka's amendment is an insurance policy that some selected persons will not be short-lived during the period when "probably and without the knowledge of their superiors, they cooperated with a participant in the anti-communist resistance or with another person or organisation who has provenly opposed the communist regime and advocated the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms and actively supported the anti-communist resistance participant or any other person acting against the regime in their activities". So much quote from the amendment. To decide who is who, the alleged experts should decide who is who. This is really excellent, especially since our public has long known how this useless expensive institution, saturated with prejudiced anticommunists, works. Thus we can look forward to true justice, once again as if in the 1990s, when the record cards of prominents of current political power were safely stored in such a way that they could be seen as little as possible. And there was also a folklore at the time, a socialist official of the Czechoslovak People's Party and the first post-November Interior Minister Richard Sacher. After all, wouldn't similar combatants deserve an intervention in their pensions? Or is it enough, in a revolution, that they're on someone's arm? Colleagues and colleagues, maybe some of you don't know that this attempt to retreat politically and segregate part of our fellow citizens is not the first. A similar attempt was made by the government coalition ODS and TOP 09 PEOPLE in 2011 when they proposed higher taxation in the form of withholding tax also for the so-called prominents of the former regime. However, constitutional lawyers warned them that constitutional actions were at risk in the event of such a tax, because any discriminatory approach to taxation of a particular group could cause a legitimate constitutional complaint, and that had crossed their plans, because their next step was to propose a ban on the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, a party that was long-term registered by the Ministry of the Interior, and which not only did not participate in all the thieving and tunnelling in the 1990s, including, for example, ginger church restitutions, such as some members of the parties of the so-called democratic opposition, but never for a moment in the constitutional framework of the Czech Republic. And today we have it again. Lustrative laws that have destroyed the professional, but also the personal life of many thousands of innocent and honest people, also because of the application of collective guilt, are simply not enough for some, and it is necessary to act on the anti-communist string in other ways. It's like we don't have completely different and more serious problems in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u35	I have a factual point here, Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u36	I will, of course, justify my proposal in detail in the debate, but I must respond to the previous speaker. For one thing, if our ancestors and many of the living commemorators of the Communist totalitarian regime could hear this speech, they would be amazed when a communist is wedged in here with constitutionality, social segregation and so on. You didn't mess with the young, old, businessmen, the farmers at the time. Hundreds of thousands of people you brutally perverted, many of them didn't survive your care here, they didn't survive the interrogation. Many of them were executed unjustly in the context of judicial murders as uncomfortable personalities of the then political and social scene. My proposal is not about segregation. The proposal just says who managed to keep the regime in really strong positions. It was those people who were at the level of the government, at the level of the Members. And here I will repeat again what we have told many journalists that this concerns all the Members of all parties who were there at the time. So we're just going to vote them out, and they're going to only account for the average wages in Czechoslovakia at the time. So it's nothing about punishment, it's just about making up for the fact that these people, because they were prominent in the regime, have maintained a regime that bullied hundreds of thousands of others, have gained a higher assessment basis for pensions, which today amount to CZK 300,000 and more than a thousand a month. It is unfair to those who were persecuting, who maybe some of them, and you have touched it, unfortunately they are not entitled to an old-age pension at all. So read the suggestions, read who's involved. It doesn't concern any lady in the mailroom. This applies explicitly to the key services executives listed there, or possibly to bodies such as the government or as Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I didn't accidentally turn on the clock, but the MP fit in two minutes, I'm convinced. Mrs Valachová, Mr Martínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u38	Dear colleagues, dear government, we have gathered today as the House for one simple reason, namely that we want to continue to be true in the Czech Republic, that seniors and seniors after a lifetime's work, raising children, and submitting what they have spent their entire lives building in terms of values in this country, so that we can bring them back what they deserved and finally provide them with decent pensions. You know, for many years, the government has been trying to straighten out what happened during the economic crisis, but also in the so-called Drábkův, Šiškův and Kalouskův reforms. I'm a little sorry that some of my previous speakers here forgot about that. And it's not about being inhospitable or wanting to waste, but it's about what's absolutely normal, and that if someone's involved - and in this case, they're our pensioners and pensioners - to build up the values and wealth of the Republic, it's logical that if they can't actively go to work after that, they should also be involved in making their pensions dignified and enabling them to ensure their basic living conditions. In recent years, we all have improved a lot on government proposals across the political spectrum, and our pensions are certainly more dignified after a few years. Yet we cannot be completely satisfied, and I do not agree with my previous speakers that this should perhaps be some kind of pre-election waste. That would be true, if we hadn't done anything for the past five or seven years, everyone here had a grinder and we wouldn't be interested in what pensions in the Czech Republic look like. That, colleagues, as you know, did not happen. On the contrary, every year there was a systemic increase in pensions in the Czech Republic and it was good. We are meeting today to increase pensions above legal valorisation so as to take account of the fact that the calculation of valorisation is based on the level of the previous year's prices, and you all know that this year there are other different economic changes and also the impact of the covido measures. Overall, the economy of Europe and the world is undergoing a significant transformation, so from my point of view this is right, it is fair, it is fair, it is fair and it is good if today - and I believe that it will succeed and the social democracy club seeks to do so - to increase our pensions of seniors and seniors by at least 300 crowns. [[10.00 hours]] The second thing I want to stress - and I do not see it as anything that would not be right, because you know that we have long years in this term, but also in the previous term through various committees on fair pensions and pension reform across the political spectrum, have sought a way where there is political agreement, how to straighten out so-called old pensions, old-age pensions, which, despite the increases in previous years, are still very low - and here I dare say that pensions of those who retired in the 1990s are still low despite the increases. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs spoke of this when she spoke of pensions that would not exceed CZK 10,000. We agreed here, even across the political spectrum, that it was the way to take care of children, and thus the loss of income, whether it was a woman or a man, mostly women, our pensioners, so that we could agree that education, i.e. at least CZK 500 for each child raised, with the fact that you know that there is a maximum limit of three years to take account of the increase in pension, so I believe that this is the agreement that we have found within the committee over fair pensions, that we will agree on this across the political spectrum, and under the proposal that we have put forward and which has also been discussed in a coalition, education towards raised children and raising pensions today. I don't see it as a populist gesture again, because it is simply a consensus across the political spectrum, and on the contrary, I would very much hate for it to become a subject of politics. I would also like us to accept this in terms of budgetary responsibility and to set effectiveness so that we can manage upbringing for a raised child for women and men, and therefore that their incomes have been reduced, to approve with regard to the state budget, and also to meet some of our economic strategies to deal with the effects of the economic crisis. I sum up: please, colleagues, let us support today's valorisation above the legal limit and please agree across the political spectrum to introduce educational, approve educational, and let us not politicise on either of these matters. On the contrary, it is a matter that we have agreed on in the long run. Let's approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Madame. I have two factual points here - Mr Valenta, then Mr Kaňkovský. Mr. Vice-President Bauer is prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only very briefly in response to my previous speaker, Mr. Jurečka. He basically accused me that I didn't even read his amendment, that it wasn't about any secretaries or doormen, but the opposite is true. So let him read it himself, what he wrote or what anyone wrote to him. In Section 19a, "who was an employee of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia," that is to say, the doorkeeper was an employee of the Central Committee of the KSČ. And while we're at the man or woman who issued passports somewhere at the desk of the passport and visa department, it's under the letter h) "who was a member of the National Security Corps in State Security." And, of course, the Passport and Visa Department also fell under State Security, as well as the Parliament Security Service, which is here today, but it is no longer, of course, State Security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u42	Good morning. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I will respond briefly to my colleague Kateřina Valachová. The KDU-ČSL Club will definitely support women's awards and, in the case of the ČSSD proposal, men who participated in children's education, because this is really the right thing to do. We believe that especially in the direction of women who raised children and where we know that these women have an average of 2,000 lower pensions than they should today if they were counted for all salaries, if they were not raising children, that is, when they work part-time and so on, we consider this to be very important. However, I must repeat here again - we have actually said this here repeatedly - ČSSD comes up with this proposal now, at this time, KDU-ČSL has come up with this proposal at least three times during this parliamentary term, I think for the first time already in 2018. It doesn't change the fact that the idea is right, I'm just sorry that the ČSSD, which has the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the moment, didn't cooperate on this idea before. We could have had this change approved in 2018, and if, at that time, the Minister claimed that the KDU-ČSL proposal was not legally drawn up, nothing hindered the MPSV to elaborate this proposal, and at this time we did not have to stand here, at this time it could have been true. However, KDU-ČSL will support the ČSSD proposal. We also have our proposal, of course, but if the KDU-ČSL proposal does not pass towards raised children and the increase of moms or fathers by CZK 500, we will also support the ČSSD proposal. I'm just saying, it could have been sooner, and it was in the MPSV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u43	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank my colleague for keeping time on a point of fact. Now, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President of ODS Jan Bauer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me really a few words for the Citizen's Democratic Party. Perhaps some of you won't agree with me, but I am actually convinced that pensions, that improving the parameters of such a very complex pension system in the Czech Republic, should not be decided on holidays, should not decide on an emergency meeting, and certainly not to decide some 70 days before parliamentary elections. Moreover, I think that pensions, and this is my long-term view, should not be decided by party secretariats, and this applies without distinction from all political parties. I think we should have some kind of mechanism in our country, some sort of valorisation mechanism, how to approach pensions systemically. I think you all know that this country has its own valorisation mechanism. The pensions increase by inflation every year through statutory valorisation and increase by half the growth in real wages. I would also like to point out - and I was not there, but I think it was the right decision - that in the last parliamentary term, this valorisation mechanism has taken place in our country through the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. So-called retirement inflation was introduced, which includes a slightly different consumer basket for seniors than for other households, and sometime in 2017, the real wage growth parameter changed from one-third to the current one-half. That's why he's passed The Chamber of Deputies took significant account of the fact that the costs of Czech seniors are slightly different from those of Czech households. I have information from the then People's House that even the then Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka, after the parameter changed to one half of real wages, was seriously concerned if this growth in pensions could be allowed to our country for the future. Second thing. Of course, we are here today to increase beyond the legal valorisation of the proposed 300 CZK, and, of course, because of the fact that we have this House press, there are less than 30 amendments. I want to say not only to the Minister of Finance here, but also to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: this is not a pension reform. Whatever we call it, pension reform just can't be dealt with by changelings. There's no way to deal with it. You can't do that in our country. It's an unfortunate thing to do at the last minute. For this reason, just allow the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party, which is unchangeable, I have spoken many times in the media. We were prepared in the past, and we also supported raising pensions in our country in the framework of legal valorisation, and in recent years we supported raising pensions above legal valorisation, although it is not a systemic matter, but we were aware that in recent years the Czech Republic experienced extraordinary economic growth, and Czech senior citizens also deserved their share in this extraordinary economic growth. The situation has really changed dramatically over the past year and a half. We have broken public finances, we are unprecedentedly indebted, and I think it is not a good time for us to raise Czech pensions, which are increasing by a corrected valorisation formula beyond legal valorisation. That is why we think - and I am not ashamed of it - that, like the sluggish one at the end of 2020, this increase is rather a political symbol, rather an attempt to bribe voters before the forthcoming elections to the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.10 hours]] The second thing, that's the pseudo-nereform or reform, that's all the amendments you all have ahead of you. I admit I'm not happy with them. If you look at them, if you look at their budgetary implications, beyond those relating to, say, communist cadres in the past, or some of the amendments proposed by the President of the Pirates, most of them have an impact on the state budget deficit. In order not to be hypocritical, even my amendment, or the one tabled by Mr Krejza, means a state budget deficit in the unit or in about CZK 2 billion. From our side it is no effort for pension reform, we have only been trying for three years to change one parameter that pays pensions in the Czech Republic - that is the known 85+, 1,000 crowns. We really think that people who are over 85 years of age are supposed to be entitled to a thousand, but people who are 79, 82 have roughly the same cost of living, and that is why we are coming about the third time with our proposal that not only people 85+ receive that thousand, but those who are 20 years retired. In general, we will not support this bill in the final version, but we are prepared to support our amendment and some others tabled by colleagues across the political spectrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u45	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. There will now be a factual comment by Kateřina Valachová. Before he comes to speak, I state Mr Lukáš Kolařík's apology for health reasons. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I wanted to respond to my colleague Kaňkovský. It makes no sense to overwhelm who came up with a good idea earlier - now, of course, I come across education for raised children for both women and men who did not have the opportunity to have full income in employment during their child care, and that is exactly what we want to take into account in their pensions, fair pensions. We have tabled an amendment to education, yes, it is true. We have done so in order to enforce it during this term of office. Based on our agreement with the Fair Pensions Commission - and, of course, we also believe in the support of our coalition partner, because training towards women in particular will cause us to straighten out the unfair pensions of old-age women, those old pensions that we still can't straighten out. It's a system thing, it's the best we've ever done in X years, so it's either by valorization or by making an extraordinary contribution to a raised child. We know that in both cases, the impact will be on the elderly, especially women, and especially the lowest pensions that we, legislators, should be primarily concerned with. And I think - even in the direction of the Minister of Finance - that he will support this because, of course, it is not only fair but also budgetaryly responsible that we are heading towards the lowest pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Tomáš Martínek, Hyťhová Hyťhová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to correct the valorisation mechanism so that it is no longer used for election campaign, but that it works automatically and dignifiedly, even without the need to open this law every year. I would like to point out that, as we unsystemically intervene in the valuation scheme, we are causing some injustices that should not really happen, for example, that people who went into retirement in December last year, for example early, and subsequently due to extraordinary valorisation, had higher pension rates than people - their peers, who, for example, worked three or four months longer, left, for example, in March, April, even with more worked months and higher incomes, but because they did not have enough valorisation, then a lower pension ratio. That's really unsystemic, demotivating, and it would be good to fix this so it doesn't happen. And we can do just that by fixing the mechanism permanently. If it seems to be inadequate here, let's raise it, let's adjust it, for example by increasing the basic dimensions and so on, but let's avoid becoming a politician. In part, this injustice could help to straighten out my Amendment B1, which at least has to increase the coefficients to raise pensions for seniors who work voluntarily in receiving pensions or who are reserving them. While it is symbolic, it is not sufficient in comparison to what we will now approve here, but it is at least part of justice for those who will actually have lower pensions at the moment, probably again just because they decide to work a little longer, and that is terribly unsystemic. I would also like to ask you to support the other amendments that we are proposing. They are all budgetaryly responsible. For example, we have here an amendment, the so-called subsidy refund, which would allow the adjustment, the refinement of the conflict of interest law to enable the elderly to pay up to CZK 1,000, the support of persecuted citizens during the Communist regime, for example, the inclusion of the time when excluding them for political reasons from schools or the inclusion of compensation for the period of political protective supervision. In addition, I would like to remind you that, of course, we fully support the legal valorisation of more than CZK 450, with the fact that I would like to point out that the amendments that are being recorded, so much of them are not budgetaryly responsible. If they were all approved, for example, this would be another negative budgetary impact of more than CZK 70 billion on what is already - the legal valorisation itself is some 16 billion, plus this amendment of 11 billion and other amendments, which are really tens of billions at a time when we are in debt at 400 to 500 billion crowns a year. This is an incredible pace, and really, if at least a little common sense, we think that the future of the Czech Republic, of all citizens, depends on the fact that we will have public finances in some condition, so that we do not move somewhere deep, so that the standard of living of all citizens of the Czech Republic does not have to be reduced, so that the seniors and, above all, the workers and their children do not have to pay for it. Please, let's think about it in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u49	I thank Mr Martínek, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, and Stanislav Juránek will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u50	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would like to comment on this proposal to raise our pensioners to their pensions. First of all, I would like to comment on whether this is politics or not. Of course, we want to support the elderly and we will support this proposal, we will support the highest possible valorisation, but on the other hand, I must say that if it is not a policy, then why are we meeting here today at the end of July at an emergency meeting at third reading? I find it a little strange. If you really, kind government, cared about your pensioners, as you say, we wouldn't have to meet here today, you would have taken this proposal as a priority and it would have been approved a long time ago. We have been hearing from Secretary Jana Maláčová here for several years that pension reform is being prepared. If this law, this proposal is the pension reform, I have to say, it really didn't work out. We want to support retired people systematically. However, I fear that this proposal is far from systematic. [[With a smile.]] It just seems to me like a sort of election move by the CSSD, which our voters, seniors, want to insure. [[10.20 hours]] As I say, we will support this proposal, but I do not see it as truly happy. Our pensioners really deserve pension reform and quality and fair pensions, but not the sum of CZK 300, which is still processed as it is processed, that means that pension reform is basically a thousand amendments from all possible Members. That's totally, totally outrageous. Otherwise, I would like to comment on this, because here on the Internet, there is such a mischief that Trikolóra wants to cancel pensions. It is spreading by some political party, I don't know who, so I would like to comment on this as we see the situation with pensions. As I said, we will support this, but we also have in the programme - and we think that this is the way we could go for the future - that we want to allow the so-called intergenerational solidarity in the pension system, which is the voluntary transfer of part of taxes to parents or grandparents of their offspring. It's a 5% tax amount that citizens could send to their parents or grandparents for retirement, and where part of their taxes, which a citizen has to pay today, would go directly to that pension. This means that we would be saving our own money effectively for future generations, because today we are paying outrageous taxes on the state. If you're watching this, then there was a so-called tax freedom day in June, which means you're actually paying the state for six months, and then you're paying for half a year, you're just making money on yourself. So given our high taxes, I think that if 5 percent of these taxes were to be paid to our pensioners, our grandmothers and moms, I think this is one of the effective proposals. Furthermore, of course, it is necessary to strengthen the credit and savings components of pensions and we also want the solidarity part to be united. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the so-called sluice, because today it happened that even during the covid, our pensioners received some extraordinary sums, I think, outside of regular valorisation. So this is also, of course, nice, that they got a few hundred on a shady one, but again I see it as such a pre-election policy of our government, because really a few hundred on my grandmother's drape didn't help at all. I don't know about your mom or your grandmother, but definitely not mine. So if, after eight years, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs here, Jana Maláčová, has not been able to write a high-quality pension reform with her government, because she has been with the government for eight years now, I'm afraid she won't be able to do it either in the next term or in the next. It's just a simple fact. So I wanted to say this because I don't think that if we all depend on pensioners or we all care about having a good life so that they have the money to live for, I don't understand why this wasn't our government's priority and why we're meeting here today at an emergency meeting. It's incomprehensible to me. The pension reform should have been here a long time ago. This is not what I consider pension reform, it is the pre-election promise of the ČSSD, which only speaks of our government being incompetent and unable to provide good and fair pensions for pensioners in eight years. So once again, we're gonna support these proposals, the highest possible valorization, we're gonna support it because we want our pensioners to have a good time because they deserve it, but don't be mad at me, it's a huge shame after all these years, and you should be ashamed, because, as they say, you won't be upset by a promise, and in this case, it's a bare fact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mrs Hyťhová, now Stanislav Juránek, and I will read one more apology to the President of the House, from Karel Krejza for family reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u52	Mr President, colleagues, I am glad that we are here today, and I do not really care whether it is before the elections or whether it is before the elections. I am not running in this election, but at the last moment, I would still have the opportunity to correct the greatest injustice that exists in those pensions, and this, please, is an injustice between me and my wife. Yes, you hear me well, I don't want to take it any other way. I have a specific example of a huge difference in the pension system at home, because I myself am a pensioner, my wife is also a pensioner, and the difference between us is huge. My wife takes CZK 7,100. What you're talking about is that there should be an average of somewhere around 14,000, 15,000. My wife takes CZK 7,100 and takes them for two reasons. The first reason is that she was home nine years with the kids, and the second reason is she was home 11 years when she was taking care of her parents. That's 20 years together. Now, I beg you, follow me closely. When we started out, that means we didn't have kids, my wife took more money than I did in the South Moravian state forests. My wife worked at Komerční banka, please, all the time it was possible to work at Komerční banka during her life. That means she wasn't in any inferior place, but the result was even enhanced by the fact that at the moment I took some salary and she was home with the kids, they would raise her salary every year to return to them, and her salary was potentially always higher than mine, which I took in the Forest. Again, I'm at the South Moravian State Forests, my wife at Komerční banka, and the only difference that's there is that she actually sacrificed herself for this country because we have three children -- they say the third child is for the state. The biggest economic problem we have is that we have little children. Please read the great economic news that always comes to this conclusion. The second thing is that she saved this state huge money at a time when she cared, especially for a long time, it was nine years, for her mother. And just take the matter that when she takes care of her, not she - mom was getting some money about 10,000 at the time - but my wife wasn't getting a crown. If this woman were to be cared for by the state, it averaged in the South Moravian Region somewhere between 50,000 and 55,000 a month. That means, just take how much she saved for this state, and, on the one hand, by having three children at home - no more, they are all adults and they have children themselves - but also by saving them in the social system. And now we're getting to the fact that I'm taking a pension that's five times higher than her pension. Yes, I was working in Lesa, and then my salary went up because I was moving in some way, and I had it getting bigger and higher, but the key thing is that I got some money for being in politics, both the mayor and the governor, and the senator, and the MP, which means I went through this whole scale here, and I dare say again, if she worked in Komerční banka all the time, she would still have more money than me. Please, we are not going to eliminate this injustice in full today. But I would ask very much for my wife's pension to rise by three times 500 crowns, which is CZK 8,600, and so that the ratio between us is not five times, but a little smaller. And I beg all of you. I don't care who's signed under this proposal, which political party. I know we counted it six years ago within KDU-ČSL, and if we were to calculate it by the same formula, it's now 750 kroner. But I ask for at least 500 crowns to remove the injustice between me and my wife symbolically. If we wanted to do this the right way, so because we lived together in that household, and we're going to be together for 38 years now, I think it would be much fairer - but that's the question of the future pension reform that I'm not going to vote on because I'm not among the candidates for the Chamber of Deputies in the next parliamentary term - so it's just important to say that there are various solutions to how to deal with this systemically. [[10.30 hours]] One of them I would see that the pension between the two of us would be numbered and divided by two, so that it would be a common pension for the two husbands who spent their entire lives together carrying the weight of the household. And even better solution was brought years ago by Pope Jan Pavel II. in a debate with economists and with judges, when after several weeks of debate there and there they came to such a beautiful view that there should be no parental contribution, that there should be parental pay. And then, in some way, if we were to develop into the future in the framework of this proposal as well as the direction of pension reform, I would very much like us to do it, or even without me, so that you can get to it. But I'm going back. That's not on the table here. There's only one on the table, and I'm saying it, really just a symbolic appreciation of the one part of what my wife did, and that's that she took care of raising our children. And I'm begging you to lower the pension gap between me and my wife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u53	I thank Mr Stanislav Juránek. Mr Marian Jurečka is still registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. So I am now duly signing up for the debate before the final vote on this proposal for an amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance, and allow me to give a little more detailed reasons for the motives which lead us to ask you as Members to support our amendments. A lot has already been said here by previous speaker Stanislav Juránek, who pointed out a miserable state involving more than one million women in the Czech Republic, who for five, eight, ten years, in some cases even more, sacrificed their professional growth, careers, increasing their wages by raising children. They raised three, four, five, in some cases more children who work perfectly properly are now those who run the ongoing pension system, and unfortunately, as I have said repeatedly in the past, our pension system is set up to punish these parents, these mothers for this. This situation needs to be corrected in two levels. One plane is to solve the consequence and the other plane is to remove the cause in the future. Solving the consequences is now a proposal that concerns the 500 as some compensation to those women for having a pension of CZK 2 000 on average today. This is the proposal that we, as folklore, have put forward repeatedly and today also with new social democracies. I would just like to say that the Prime Minister also supported this proposal in his principle - if you look at it, and perhaps some of you see it in the first place, in 2019, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš clearly says: Higher pension for more children. In that interview for Lidové noviny and for the other media that reprinted it, they clearly claim that it is necessary for this principle to be introduced here in order to apply it. And then, in the future, it is very important to get back to it in pension reform, to eliminate the problem of the cause. The reason here was also mentioned by the personal description of the situation that Stanislav Juránek said, but it concerns a large number of parents in the Czech Republic, when one parent has a significantly higher salary, makes a full career - it is a legal, medical profession, it is not just about us, for example politicians - and the other parent is at home and devotes himself to fully raising children for some time. It is not always possible to combine parenthood and motherhood with work and career, not all occupations allow it, and here the elimination of this cause would be to allow a common assessment basis for calculating future pensions. It would help not only in the situation we are describing here, but it would also help to change the amount of widowing and widowing pensions at the moment if these spouses or parents could share the basis of assessment, to make it an average basis for calculating future widowing, widowing or old-age pensions. This House will no longer be able to do that, but this needs to be achieved in the next period, and the future government and the future House will be able to do so. And we need to strengthen intergenerational belongings in our pension system. If parents take care of their children first, without them we would not be here, then it is necessary for children to be able to take care of their parents at a different stage of life and for generational belonging to be supported not only by the instruments I have talked about, but also by the possibility of at least symbolic signatures, so that children can point out part of their contribution directly to the retirement of their parents. These are proposals that would help to make the system more balanced and to remember more about the very important intergenerational solidarity that society often forgets, and even this principle would help to remind citizens, taxpayers. We then have proposals on the adjustment of widowing and widowing pensions. I do not know how much you, Members, know the issue of widowing and widowing pensions, who is entitled to the pension, who does not have it. Those parameters are quite strict today. Since the size of the bill is not very high today, I pointed out that it is the widows and widowers who are the worst off of all old-age pensioners. They are sinking into the social bottom of our problems to pay the cost of their livelihoods, housing costs, medical, social care costs, and other things that are linked significantly to the quality of their lives. Although the proposal is unlikely to have majority support here today, it is necessary to return to it in the future. It is necessary to open the question of the standard of living of widows and widowers in the Czech Republic and what parameters they have and when they may be entitled to this pension, even in the wake of the post-covide period, when there was a significant increase in the number of widows and widowers who dealt with their social problems. So I would also like to point out these proposals that are there and ask you if we really want to help people who need help and fall through the social network of Czech society to consider the support of these proposals. Then I would also like to get to those proposals that have already been mentioned here and have been attacked primarily by fellow Members from the Communist Party Club, the KSČM, so let me be precise. I understand that they have a big problem with these proposals that they reject them for many reasons. I understand. If they hadn't been standing here on the barricade, they wouldn't have said critical words, so the proposals wouldn't have been right, but let's look at the fact that these proposals, for example in Slovakia and in legislation very similar, were adopted in Germany, Poland, in the Baltic countries, Croatia, for the last time in Slovakia, and were adopted there in times outside the elections. For example, it cannot be blamed for the Slovak Government's adoption of this proposal three months ago, that it would have been in Slovakia before the elections, yet it was accepted. We can accuse the Slovak MPs that they did it late, but they did it. In principle, we could criticize, for example, Israel's secret services and its workers, who, even decades after the end of World War II, were able not to give up the fight for justice and punish the then prominent Nazi regime. But this proposal is not about punishment, this proposal is only about equalizing social injustice, and better late than never. If this proposal does not have a majority here, because the Communists are still holding this government in power in the last two or three months, so I understand that the influence of the Communists will appear on the whole coalition and there are not brave Members who would vote really on their convictions, consciousness and even out of respect for their parents or grandparents who have been persecuted, so I want to draw your attention to the amendment, which concerns dozens of people, has absolutely minimal budgetary implications, but concerns people who have been imprisoned by the Communist regime, could not work and did not fulfil the legal time for them to receive an old-age pension. [[10.40 hours]] I would like to ask you to at least have the courage and honor for this proposal, which clearly eliminates the persecution of these people 30 years after the end of the Communist regime, but at least this proposal to support. Those people deserve it. So I'm asking you nicely to support these proposals. Otherwise, I must conclude by saying and also thank you within this parliamentary term for the many proposals that we have put forward here regarding support for families, parents. Supporting the management of children's education costs, for example by increasing the discount on the taxpayer, which will take place this year, but also next year, is an overall increase in the discount on the taxpayer by CZK 6,000. There has also been an increase in the discount on children, on the second and third children, a very important step that helps motivate working parents. Of course, there was also an increase in child benefits and child benefits. But all these things were aimed at helping families, parents in the Czech Republic, to cope with the rise and effects of inflation. The increases are huge, we see it in building materials, but we see it in other things. I also want to thank you for the proposal that was tabled here about three years ago - the reduction of VAT on heat. Over 2 billion crowns remained in Czech families, especially where people depend on central heat supply, and I could continue. But I am saying this because, although we disagree on many things, there have also been some proposals that we have come up with as an opposition party, and for this it is appropriate not for us, but for parents, for children, for families to thank for helping them to facilitate their difficult situation. But there are a lot of things that are still waiting for this change, and it's necessary to do those things. Thank you for your attention and once again I intercede for this, consider supporting some of the proposals that we have put forward, even if you are members of the government coalition, because these proposals have their reasons - not only the 500 Moms, but also helping those dozens of people who have been severely persecuted - unfortunately, today they are being punished by not being entitled to any old-age pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u55	The MP has arrived. Now the factual remark of Tereza Hyťhová. [[Member of Hyth: Thank you.]] Just a minute. [[Member of the Hyth: Yes.]] Then there is the factual remark of Vice-President Okamura and then of Mr Ferjenčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. I wanted to say here that I am glad that we agree that the so-called intergenerational solidarity that I described here a moment ago, because we have our Tricolore movement, free privates in the program, has the support here, namely Mr Jurečka mentioned it here. I'm glad, and I wanted to ask that this matter be seriously considered to be considered, because that is the way we can go. Only one thing I completely disagree with is that such fundamental matters should be tabled in the amendments. I know that, of course, this is meant well, and I do not mean that to the speaker either, but such matters should be dealt with by Minister Maláčová through good pension reform, and such essential things should not really be the subject of amendments - I think we all agree on that. So I just wanted to thank you for agreeing here that this is an effective way to improve the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President Okamura with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, because when we looked at the proposal that he wanted to reduce the pensions of the exponents of the previous regime, I could ask because I was 17 at the time of the Velvet Revolution, and I never... at that time I was... I was never in the KSČ. But will it, please, also concern the former leader of the People's Party, Josef Bartončík, who was a convicted agent of the StB, and all the people's people, members of the People's Party, who elected him to be chairman of the People's Party in 1989? I'm asking you this because it's not specified, so we can get it straight. And I just want to remind you that the convicted StB agent and the leader of the People's Party, Josef Bartončík, has been a Member of Parliament since 1982, so I just want to ask you to clarify, yeah, because among the folklore, there was a StB agent right there. So I want to ask who exactly this is going to be about, just to be clear. We weren't in KSČ, so I have to ask you this, no one in the SPD did or didn't operate in that sense, so if you can be more specific, because you have the top representatives who were aesthebians and collaborators, only who it's all going to be about, just to get it straightened out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment, then Mr Jurečka's colleague. Mr. MP Ferjenčík... [[Member Ferjenčík from the bench: Let's debate.]] For the debate, I see. Sorry. Now, Mr Jurečka, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u60	Thank you very much. I'll answer that very quickly. If the Member or Member has read the full proposal including the explanatory memorandum, it is clear that the bill clearly states: fall to whom. Any Member, whether at that time the National Assembly or the Federal, or the members of the government, is measured by the exact same metro. So, to your question, even him would possibly be involved. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish whether he had it as his main activity at the time, or was employed somewhere else, on which payroll he counted the basis of the assessment, because not all Members of the entire period had it as their principal activity, many of them were not paid for it. So it applies to everyone's principle, fall to whom. The principle is absolutely simple, unambiguous, it is described in the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u61	A factual remark from Vice-President Okamura, then Mr Bělobrádek, and a colleague Ferjenčík is duly registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. I'm the only one who wants to clarify my question one more time. That is, when your party members, the People's Party, voted for the chairman of the People's Party in 1989 and elected a convicted aesthetic leader of your party, Josef Bartončík - I'm only asking if these members of yours who elected a collaborator with the previous regime of the Aesthetic Party, are included. That's why I wasn't clear. I just want to explain your amendment because you're only talking about communists. You're still talking about "communist party exponents" here in your speech. I've never been in it, so I ask it fair and square. Not even from my kinship, and that's my mother's six children, they were never members of the KSČ. That's why I'm asking you fair and square, if you can make it clear about the people's members of the time, whether it's also a round, or if they're going to be removed, or how it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. Now the factual comment by Pavel Bělobrádek, then Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u64	I would reply to Mr Okamur, through Mr President: but your mother, as far as I know, was a member of the KDU-ČSL - that is one thing. The second thing about Dr. Bartončík, when he was elected, was not clear that he was an associate of St.B. As soon as it turned out, he was also an extraordinary convention, and Josef Lux was elected chairman at that convention in 1990. Then Mr Bartončík from KDU-ČSL, then from the people's side, i.e. from ČSL, left and founded his own party. So that's one thing. And second thing, I repeat what our chairman said. It's obvious, it's a fit. If they were members of the Czechoslovak Socialist Party, if they were members of the Czechoslovak People's Party, the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, it doesn't matter, it applies to everyone, and it applies to all the people who are there, it is listed there. It is not based on membership in a specific party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u65	Now also Marian Jurečka with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. I regret that MEPs may not read the press and the amendments that are tabled to them, because I recommend to President Okamur when he reads the amendment and reads Titles 5 and § para. 19a, so it is written in points (a) to (i) of who it concerns. This means, we are talking about government members, we are talking about members of the National Assembly or the Federal Assembly, we are talking about the Czech National Council, we are talking about people who were employees of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, we are talking about head of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Security or, for example, the General Staff of the Czechoslovak People's Army or the Border Guard, who were in the leading positions and so on. [[10.50 hours]] I'm here on a factual note, so I'm not gonna read the whole thing, but it's listed. I think whoever reads it and reads the reason message is obvious to him who it concerns, see my previous answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u67	Now a factual comment by the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik, then Alena Gajdůškovášková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I'd like to ask that we stop fighting past wars whenever appropriate. We're here extraordinarily, we're here on vacation, and we're supposed to decide serious matters about pensions. I admit a conflict of interest, I'm at that age where I'm entitled to a pension, so you could say I'm talking without having it, but I'm talking for the future. The fact that 500 unnegotiated laws are still ahead of us is largely due to the fact that we are also fighting all kinds of battles here other than those we have here to fight. Last war we call it. I would like to return to the real issue of pensions, and because there are amendments that conflict with each other and some of us agree with both of them, we would like to consult. So before the vote after the debate, I would like to ask for a break in the meeting of the KSČM club for a duration of 15 minutes. The club would meet at that window over there, like Standa Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Now a factual comment by my colleague Gajdůšková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because I am essentially in conflict of interest, because I am simply of a retirement age, I did not want to speak, but I really have two points to make. The first one is to refuse that the proposal for an increase of CZK 300 or 500 is some kind of election package. It's just a cost comparison that senior families, seniors, seniors, seniors have. First of all. It's at this time because it corresponds to the state budget discussion schedule. That's two. Thirdly, colleagues who argue about communist pensions as communist exponents should say what salaries, what rewards Members had before 1990. My information is that they didn't have any. That was an honorable function at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mikuláš Ferjenčík with a proper application. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you to support our amendments. As these amendments succeed, we will decide in the final vote. Two proposals were made by a colleague of Michálek. These relate to compensation for bullying protective supervision under the previous regime and compensation for school students for wrongful exclusion from studies under the previous regime. So we are going a positive way to at least alleviate this injustice, and at the same time we are proposing an accompanying resolution in relation to the unfairly high pensions of the prominent members of the previous regime. We also propose two such practical amendments, which reduce again some injustices in the system, and this is an increase in support for the working elderly - we really consider it a mistake to set up the system when people who work longer than they have to work and take away more into the system, then they get very little added. There are even paradoxical situations where people get a smaller pension because they retire later. So we are trying to remedy this injustice by means of the Martínek amendment. Similarly, we are trying to solve lower care pensions, through the extension of the excluded period to seven years, which means typically women who care for young children will have a longer period of time when they will be counted the average wage instead of increasing the pension base. Expansion of the excluded period to seven years to support carers. And the last amendment that will decide in the finals whether or not we support the law as a whole is our proposal for a grant refund of CZK 1,000 for each senior, and because we believe that if pensions increase, we need to look for budgetary resources, so we have suggested that this grant refund of CZK 1,000 for each pensioner be financed from the subsidies that the Prime Minister's companies receive. We believe that when an election campaign is made, and let us pour pure wine, this law is part of the ANO election campaign, so let the ANO fund it from the money of its owner, let Agrofert pay higher pensions, so we don't borrow it from our children. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. I've signed up for the debate, and I'm going to ask my fellow Vice-President Okamura for a replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u74	Hello. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. The opinion of KSČM on Jurečka's proposal said by Jiří Valenta, I will just make a few comments. A short story: what do you want to reduce Marie Hadačová's pension, a worker, a high school girl who worked, was a Member of the Federal Assembly, the House of People, folks. She and the work she did in the House of the People were properly paid in the process of compensating for her non-employment. Do you want to cut it for the whole year, for the entire term, or for the spring and autumn sessions? Please, this proposal is not a financial or political issue, it is a direct attack on the legitimacy of the state. It is a direct attack on the sovereignty and identity of the Czechoslovak Republic and therefore the Czech Republic as the legal successor of this state. I don't know who told you to do this, but first of all, you can't compare it to Slovakia or Poland, because if you wanted to punish someone, you punished them in 1995. Unlike Poland, where he was president of the former government of the Polish United Workers' Party, unlike Slovakia, where the President of the former KNV was President in Košice, and of course there was no law which he was serving. You're in a completely different situation than the neighbouring states. And the comparison that my colleague Jurečka made here is legally incorrect and constitutionally completely stupid. And I'm going to put it bluntly, try to think about the story of the worker, the non-member of the party, the MP. How do you intend to punish her? What do you want to punish her for, what do you want to cut her down for, when she didn't actually get the reward, traveling to the Federal Assembly? You know, it really seems to me that, as Pavel Kováčik said, you're fighting here for nothing. I understand Stanislav Juránek, who's been talking about things that have been being dealt with here since 1991 all the time, what are we going to do with women's, widows and widowers' pensions? When I was signed as a young Member of the Federal Assembly under a constitutional complaint, among other things the first signed under a constitutional complaint to settle pensions was Richard Sacher, I was only second since we wrote it as lawyers, a constitutional complaint, and I was happy that we had won at least part, although the then president of the Federal Constitutional Court was a fundamental opponent of the Constitutional Court's involvement in the state's taxes and financial expenditure. [[11.00 hours]] But we're here playing at something that has a political impact, and so it's incredible, and it has a really negative impact on the identity of the state, on state sovereignty. Please don't be mad at me if you're here playing at the fact that one day we're going to become a Greek country either Germany or Austria, so please, not in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u76	Now I have two factual points here. Mr Jan Jakob will be the first to speak and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for the floor. The President of the KSČM Filip evidently did not notice that the leading role of the Communist Party was no longer laid down by law. If that were the case, it might be an attack on this state's sovereignty, but it's not God's way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u78	Now Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Well, I'm a little surprised that the great commemorator and expert in the legislative process, Mr Vojtěch Filip, did not read exactly the proposal, because the proposal clearly makes a distinction if your example of the lady you spoke about worked as a worker in her civic profession, as a milkmaid or as anything else, does not apply to this part of the wage that served to calculate the future assessment base. It really applies to things related to the fact that the person was exposed in listed positions, whether a member of the National or Federal Assembly, the Council and so on. So this is where the part that was paid to these people would be deducted from the basis of the assessment. I really don't understand why an ex-StB officer should have a pension of CZK 35,000 today, and the person he bullied was persecuting in interrogation, today he is not entitled to a pension at all. If you at least have elementary justice, today even the Communists will be able to raise their hands for the proposal, House Press 8843, which says that these people, who, because of their wrongful imprisonment, and for that reason, are clear also the legal findings that they have been wrongfully convicted and imprisoned, we would at least grant these people a pension. Otherwise, do not enchant here at all with the rule of law, otherwise you are just hypocrites and exactly the same communists as before 1989, if this press or this House document 8843, which addresses this injustice, if you are unable to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u80	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual comment of Jan Bartošek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for the floor. For me only technical notice that before the final vote, after voting on individual amendments, the KDU-ČSL club takes 15 minutes to the club meeting. I'm alerting ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u82	Mr President, I am informed that the clubs have requested, as Pavel Kováčik said, 30 minutes after the procedure was approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u83	I have information that these breaks are after the procedure has been approved. [[President Philip: Yes.]] And I demand a 15-minute break after voting on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u84	After the vote, okay, I understand. I'm going to declare it as requested by the presidents of the MPs. Pavel Bělobrádek now with a factual remark, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I think it is not even necessary to talk here about the fact that what you said, Mr President, also means legitimacy, and I think it was legal, but it was not legitimate because we lived in totalitarianism and totalitarianism differs from the rule of law by having totalitarianism in their parliaments, but without freedom of speech, it is being prosecuted. And that is the difference between legality and legitimacy. That's one thing. And two: we could also talk about personal pensions, when personal pensions were not based on how many people took and calculated from it, but how the comrades agreed. And I wouldn't run into that either. We have a few suggestions on the table here. I think it's okay for us to start voting on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. If no one reports - yes, I see Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. I just wanted to make a comment about my previous speakers that I feel like I did in the Czech Republic in May 1945, except it was already May 10th. A lot of guerrillas, a lot of fighters. Great, you're doing fine, I'm sure people care. Communism must be fought 30 years after the war. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u89	Thank you, and as I have already said in the introductory words, I beg you to approve the proposal or the amendment of Mr Sklenák, an educational one. It's 500 for a raised child. Furthermore, I beg you to support Mr Onderka's amendment, which means an earlier retirement for demanding professions without cutting their pension. It is a matter that has been discussed for 30 years as well as educational ones. And then I also want to say that I support Mr Mašek's amendment to support rescue workers, but there are still legislative errors, but if this amendment is approved, we will correct it in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word? This is not the case, but in that case, I will invite her, as rapporteur for the guarantee committee, to introduce us to the voting procedure, and then I will announce the announced break on the request of the Members' Club Chairs. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Guarantee Committee No. 261 of 20 July this year on the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended: "Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after discussion of the bill after second reading I. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law pursuant to House press 1230/1 in the following order: The motion to reject the bill was not filed. 1. draft adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading if they are presented in the debate; 2. Amendment J1; 3. J2; 4. K; 5. G; 6. I1, if accepted, is unvoting I2, unless accepted, 7. I2, if accepted, will be non-voting A1 to A8, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, unless accepted, 8. A1, if accepted, the non-voting A2 to A8, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, 9th vote A2, if accepted, will be non-voting A3 to A8, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, we will vote 10. A3, if accepted, we will vote A4 until A8, B1, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, if accepted, we will vote A4 until A8, B1, B2, C1, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, we will vote A5, if accepted, unvoting A6 until A8, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, F, H, if not accepted, we will vote A6 if accepted, unvoting A7 and A8, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, we will vote A7, if not adopted, unless voted A8, B1, B2, C1, F, H, if accepted, we will vote A8, if accepted, we will vote A8 if accepted, will be unvoting B1, B2, C2, D, F, D, E, H, if accepted, If the B1 is adopted, the non-voting B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not accepted, we shall vote B2, if accepted, the non-voting C1, C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, we shall vote C1, if accepted, the non-voting C2, D, E, F, H, if not adopted, we shall vote C2, if not adopted, C2 will be unvoting D, E, F, H, if not adopted, we shall vote D, if accepted, unvoting E, F, H, if not adopted, we shall vote E, if received, if not voted F, H, if not adopted, we shall vote F, if not voted F, if not adopted, unvoting H, if not adopted, we shall vote H. [[11.10 hours]] II. The Guarantee Committee has taken an opinion on the proposals I will make when voting; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the third reading of the bill; IV. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u92	Thank you to the rapporteur. Who wants to comment on the procedure? Yes, Mr. Colleague Sklenák, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the rapporteur and point out once again that we have gone a little bit into the trap of simplicity, let's say the government draft. She basically consists only in changing one paragraph, paragraph 67c, which is incorporated into Art. 1, and essentially, although a number of amendments have been tabled, if I count well, 22 in particular, all or most of them are designed to change the whole article. 1, although each proposal goes somewhere else and addresses another issue, in the view of the legislation I respect, it is mutually exclusive. That's actually why the procedure is designed the way it was presented. When I am specific - proposals I2, A1 to A8, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E, F, H are mutually exclusive. In other words, only one of them can be approved, and once one of them has been approved in the procedure, the vote essentially ends and we are going to vote on the bill as a whole, because everything else is unvoteable. I have tried to consult this further, in my view it would theoretically be possible to vote on these proposals on all of them, with the possibility that they would be approved in the wording of the amendments already adopted, but, as I say, House legislation does not share this view and I respect the position of legislation. So for this reason, when I listened to the debate, and not only today, but also in previous readings, I feel that what has the greatest support in this House, and what has been said by a lot of supporting statements, is my amendment, which appreciates 500 crowns a month by those who raised the child, and because, as I have therefore perceived the proposed procedure, this proposal is on the very top of the series, so I'm a little afraid that, in my opinion, subjective of course, I can confuse - the biggest support, so we would not have to get to the vote on it at all because one of the previous ones would have been approved and that would have made it unvoteable. Therefore, I accept my proposal, I apologise for the longer entrée, but I wanted to explain my motives, so I propose a change of procedure in the sense that, after paragraph 6, when Amendment I1 is voted, we would vote on Amendment E, that is, my amendment, and then the others would vote, that is, as they are proposed, I2, H and so on, but, of course, if Amendment E were adopted, the others would be unvoted. I hope the proposal is understandable, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. Anyone else to change the procedure? My colleague Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to a colleague of the Sklenák who, unfortunately, from our point of view, preferred the amendment which we consider to be a less long-term change and, on the contrary, we consider to be an excellent proposal from our colleague Onderka. For this reason, if the amendment proposed by Mr Sklenák is accepted, I propose that Mr Onderka's proposal D, which concerns demanding professions, be put before him. We believe that this is a fundamental, positive system change that is going in a very right direction, and it would be very good to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u96	Okay, so that's basically a proposal that's changing to the proposal of a fellow Sklenák. It's a counter-proposal, so it's gonna be a vote before a fellow Sklenák's proposal is voted, okay? We understand each other. Okay, anyone else on the procedure? If not, we will now vote the procedure according to the changes, that is to say, first a colleague of Ferjenčík, then a colleague of Sklenák and then, if necessary, a rapporteur's proposal. We will decide on the procedure in the vote. I'm trying to start the vote, so it's on. Who is for the procedure in the wording of my colleague Ferjenčík.? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number three, 120 in favour of 14, versus 6. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote in vote number 4 on the proposal of Mr Sklenák. I've started voting number four. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 4, from the present 121 for 72, against 1. The motion was accepted. So at this point, we have an approved voting procedure and I'm declaring a 30-minute recess, which means 11:48 a.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, a break has passed, I ask for peace in the Chamber. We have approved the procedure, so I will ask the rapporteur of the Social Policy Guarantee Committee, Mr Lenka Dražilová, to take us through the vote. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u98	Thank you. So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u99	Excuse me, we still have a request, so Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u100	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, but I want to declare here before the vote on the supplementary proposals that I am seeing here the will of the Chamber of Deputies, which has put forward a proposal from Roman Sklenák, which concerns the 500 mothers that we have repeatedly put forward here, repeatedly seeking it, which is why I have proposed here a counter-proposal for our A5 to be placed there, because I have perceived that most of them are here in some way given that there is also a chance that this opposition proposal will pass, so in advance I say that if this succeeds, it is actually much more than the whole debate about the valorisations, because it will help a huge number of people, especially moms. So it seems that the proposal should pass, as I feel the majority here in the House, so let me ask you one more time for the support of this proposal, which is presented here factually, very similar, but from the Roman Sklenák's pen, because it is going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u101	Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u102	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Legally, technical proposals were not loaded at third reading, so we will begin voting on the J1 amendment of Mr Michálek, which concerns compensation for high school students for wrongful exclusion from studies under the previous regime. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u103	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Sorry, I can't seem to squeeze it... anymore. Who's against it? Voting number 5, 123 Members voted in favour of 48, against 12. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u104	We also vote in favour of the amendment under letter J2, also Mr Michálek, which concerns compensation for bullying protective supervision under the previous regime. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u105	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 123 Members voted in favour of 47, against 6. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u106	Another amendment under the letter K by Mr Ferjenčík, a one-off contribution by a pensioner of CZK 1,000 in addition to the proposal, adds a new part - the amendment of the Act on Conflict of Interest. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u107	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] - Sorry. [[A scream from the diaper.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Sound - replacement for the gong.]] Who's against it? Voting number 7, 122 Members voted in favour of 33, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u108	Another amendment under the letter G of Mr Mašek, when he is entitled to an old-age pension under this proposal, is also the one who, at the time of entitlement to an old-age pension, reached 20 years of full-time employment in the Integrated Rescue System. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u109	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 123 Members voted in favour of 99, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u110	Another vote under the letter I1 of Mr Krejza, an increase in pension by CZK 1,000 after 25 years from the first instalment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u111	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered by 123 Members, for 35, against none. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u112	We are now voting on the amendment under the letter E of Mr Sklenák, which proposes, with effect from 1 July 2023, an increase of CZK 500 per month for each child raised, the so-called educational. This increase would be part of the percentage of the old-age pension and would be subject to regular or exceptional valorisation. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u113	Opinion - Ah, the Prime Minister doesn't know how to vote. [[Check.]] You, Prime Minister, have made a point of fact. Please delete the Prime Minister, because I don't have it on this one. Still can't? [[That's okay!]] I'll get the technicians, please. [[Upon renewal of the function of the voting device:]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered by 123 Members, for 85, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u114	Since this amendment has been adopted, all other amendments are unvoteable and we should vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u115	Thus, all the proposals have been voted on and we are to proceed to the vote on the whole proposal. However, I have a request for a break, if I remember correctly, KDU-ČSL asked for a 15-minute break, but Mrs Jírovcová for a vote? The club's position. So please, I'll give you some more space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I must say that when we started this meeting today, I thought it would turn out a little differently, but, as you can see, agreements are made from seconds to seconds. It again showed us the YES movement, which today changed the view really from minute to minute, because the assurance that amendments would be voted on was still completely different this morning. But I'll take it. The Prime Minister just wants to live up to his word. I get it, it's kind of a weird attitude for us, but I'm not gonna say it anymore. [[12.00 hours]] Anyway, we did not vote for the amendment that actually changed everything today, for so-called educational, we abstained. Although we agree with the principle, we are completely concerned about the point and how it was processed and, above all, that it is only a claim after five years of education. [[Education?]] I think the person who's supposed to get the amount, and may even be a higher education, should be raising a child to age. And don't be mad at me, maybe we wanted to help the risk groups to leave earlier, that didn't go away. I think it may have been an effort from other political parties, the pirát declared it today. And it was one of the arguments that YES is why not support this, because an honest statement, on the basis of which it will be paid, that I raised a child for five years, so I think it is a mockery to people who take care of their children until full age, and of course they help further. I must say that I am very sad that with the bill's proposal beyond valorisation, it was actually this way. So I'd just like to say our position to the club. We will, of course, support the proposal now, but I would just like to say the reality as it has been shown today, how the ANO really addresses its proposals and resolves its agreements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u117	I would just like to point out in the future - I was very tolerant, although I knew to a certain extent, because the speaker in charge of presenting the opinion of the club will be given the floor at any time until the end of the debate, but the debate is not, we have closed the debate. That means I've consulted here and we've been benevolent to you, but I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure. We have now asked for 15 minutes before the final vote and the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club, so I am declaring a break within 12.16 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u118	All proposals have been voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I'll get back on track. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, according to the House press 1230, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Sorry. Who's the priority? Chairman KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka wants to perform, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. I want to make a brief comment on our debate at the MP's club. We made it clear that if there was only the original proposal that would only address the increase in pensions above mandatory and legal inflation by CZK 300, that is not something that we would like to support. But since the long-term priority that we have proposed here at least three times has been proposed here for the fourth time today, we, for the reason that this is really about moms, about the long-term injustice that is leveling up here, so we will ultimately support the bill, even if it is imperfect, even if we do not mind the way it is conceived and the procedure and the impossibility of voting on the other key amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u120	We will therefore now proceed only to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 123 Members voted in favour of 96, against 14. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A round of applause for some members of the YES.]] I now ask the rapporteur to present the draft accompanying resolution of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u121	We will now vote on two accompanying resolutions. First, we will vote on the accompanying resolution by Mr Michálek, which calls on the Government to prepare restrictions in the pension area for representatives of Communist State power by the end of September 2021. The Guarantee Committee has discussed this resolution and adopted an unadvised opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u122	I'll start the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 123 Members voted in favour of 29 against 10. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u123	Another accompanying resolution was read by Mrs Pekarová Adamová today during her third reading. "I. calls on the government to (a) rationalise the expenditure of the State budget; (b) the increase in pensions beyond statutory valuation has no longer contributed to the growth of state debt; (c) seek savings on the part of the State's operating expenditure and make it more efficient to draw subsidies from the State budget; II. instructs the Government to present to the Chamber of Deputies by 31 August 2021 the method of financing an increase in pensions beyond the statutory valorisation for 2022.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u124	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 123 Members voted, in favour of 48, against none. The motion was not accepted. We have therefore exhausted all the resolutions, have we not, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. I'm done discussing this press. We'll proceed to the next point. [[Mr Benda: This is Mrs Sommer.]] Mrs. Sommerová? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u125	When voting on the final result of this law, I voted against it, but I have a say in high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-001-001.u126	Okay. I will now open another item on the agenda for today's meeting. This is about
