ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - third reading I ask that Minister Jana Maláčová take the position at the rapporteur's table - this is the table before you, Madam Secretary - and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is Mrs Jana Pastuchová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 961/6, which was delivered on 7 July 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 961/7. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the opening of the debate at third reading. That's right, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment to the Children's Group Act is a law that we are discussing for a year. Allow me to make two comments. I am satisfied with the compromise proposal, I think it is a step in the right direction. Two things I'm worried about. Personally, I am very sorry that we left the name of the nursery because we know that the name of the children's group is not known, is not anchored and is interchangeable, but I respect the majority that is for maintaining the name. Second thing - we will see how the change in professional qualifications works in practice. Thank you so much for your support in finding a compromise, and I ask you to be as brief as possible in the debate as possible, so that we can make the most of today's three points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. One more apology after all. Mr Krejza apologizes today without giving any reason. I'm opening the debate. Vice-President Okamura shall be the first to report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement supports the main objectives and objectives as contained in the latest compromise version of the comprehensive amendment in the amendment to the Children's Group Act. Our primary concern is the long-term and stable provision of quality care for our smallest pre-school children. In our opinion, the care of these youngest pre-school children must have a systemic character and must be primarily and fully organised and also financed by the State. It must clearly have the character of a public service and must allow all small children whose parents are interested in it to be placed in public pre-school facilities and care facilities. This conviction is very closely linked to our idea of the crucial importance of supporting our working families, promoting birth rates and positive demographic developments, which is the fundamental public interest and priority of the SPD movement. It is also of the utmost importance for us that caring for children in children's groups is primarily financed exclusively from public money without parents having to pay other small amounts of their own. The high interest of the SPD movement is also to ensure that the smallest children and their parents have equal, equal and equal access to preschool facilities and care facilities in the territory of the Republic, ideally at their place of residence without the need for a complicated and not cheap commute. We therefore consider it absolutely necessary to ensure, through this law, the availability of pre-school facilities and children in small municipalities, where, for example, they are not a classic kindergarten at all, and where there is often just one type of pre-school facility. Therefore, we insisted that in the final proposal the maximum possible access to pre-school facilities for all our children at their place of residence throughout the country, including the smallest municipalities and settlements, should be provided in such small municipalities up to 1,000 inhabitants by the only pre-school facilities and care of the children group, they will be able to visit local children until they have to start compulsory schooling at primary school and in these situations and in the case of attendance in the children's group to meet the conditions of compulsory attendance at the last year of kindergarten. It is in the interests of our smallest pre-school children and their parents, who must always come first, which is clearly true in the SPD movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Next up, she's signed up for the debate... With KDU-ČSL's opinion, Mr Výborný, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me briefly inform you of the KDU-ČSL MEP's position on this amendment. We very much welcome the fact that, after many weeks, the Minister and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have succeeded in convincing themselves that the arguments that have been recited and put forward at the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies and at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, but also at the many round tables, the arguments put forward by the mayors, the representatives of the municipalities and the cities directly affected by the topic of children's groups, are indeed relevant and we welcome the very broad compromise that has been achieved. We do not, of course, consider it ideal, but that is just the way it is - when a compromise is concluded, everyone has to give way in some way, but in the form of a final amendment, as discussed by the Committee on Social Policy, the KDU-ČSL MEP will support the amendment to the Act on Children's Groups. The key things we see here are that, on the one hand, the child's age will be reduced, that is, children's groups will also be able to benefit from children older than three years of age until the compulsory pre-school year of education, including. This is, of course, a positive report for both parents and for the mayors of municipalities and cities, because they would have been built since February 2022, when most of the funding of children's groups from European funds ends, before the often unsolvable thing, because, on the one hand, they could not virtually increase the capacity of children's groups and kindergartens in their municipalities and cities and, on the other hand, they would be faced with the question of how they could possibly ensure the financing of children's groups. That's how we think this thing will be handled. This is the second thing that concerns the financing of children's groups. We welcome the fact that there has been a cancellation of the contribution from parents at least in the compromise option. We also consider this a very good and positive step. We are prepared to support, in this sense, the amendment to the Children's Group Act. It is a question that will still be discussed, but until next time, for example, to what extent the tightening of the criteria for the operation of children's groups is relevant, however, we believe that by maintaining the functional model of children's groups, including the name, it may be symbolic, perhaps a little ideological, but that we are not returning to the concept of a nursery that can have very diverse connotations by maintaining the concept of a children's group, among other things saving the funds of the children's groups themselves. It's a question of exchange of stamps, forms and so on. It would be a total waste of money. We are pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has also retreated here and supported the maintenance of children's groups in this current model. [[9.20 hours]] So it is a positive message for parents. More than 400,000 families in the Czech Republic today use the services of children's groups. This is very good news for them, it is good news for children's groups as such, their operators. It's good news for mayors of municipalities and cities. KDU-ČSL is prepared to support this amendment in this version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mrs GajdůGajdůšková to prepare Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Minister, Madam Member, Members. We are in the third reading and we have a bill before us which, in my opinion and belief of social democracy, does what society should do. It creates the conditions for taking the best care of the smallest children, but it also creates conditions for equality of chances, for families to be able to reconcile their idea of caring for the child with their imagination and goals in their careers. This law is very necessary and I hope that we will approve it today. If you don't mind, I would like to thank you for the compromise that was created on the floor of the Social Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to thank Eva Fialová for her great cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and, in particular, I would like to thank, in particular, colleagues and colleagues from the Social Committee - first of all Eva Fialová, who has really worked hard and has great credit for the fact that this compromise has been established, Olza Richterová, Roman Sklenák, Jana Pastuchová, Věra Kovářová, Pavla Golasowská and Kateřina Valachová, because these Members and this Member are the petitioners of the comprehensive amendment, which is the compromise that my previous speakers have already spoken about, and I will no longer communicate what it is about, we have talked about it at second reading, and you have all in writing, but I will ask you to support this comprehensive proposal. Thank you so much in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u10	Dear colleagues, allow me to comment on the amendment to the Act on Children's Groups for the Club Mayors and Independents. Children's groups have always been considered an alternative for those who want to go to work early or need to study and so on. It was a very good thing for the students. It also dealt with the situation in municipalities where there was insufficient capacity in kindergartens and, of course, for smaller municipalities where they could not establish a kindergarten. That is why I am pleased that there has been a compromise in the form of an amendment involving all the club members and, of course, the Ministry of Labour. I am glad that although the compromise was born for quite a long time and painfully, the title remains in the end. It saves a lot, not only time, but also money for children's groups. I also acknowledge that children will be able to visit children's groups until school starts, which will solve the problems that I mentioned above, why children's groups do - they will stay in children's communities, there will be sufficient capacity in other regions, and it is also clear how children's groups will be financed. It is a compromise before which we agree, although we would have imagined some things differently, but if a comprehensive amendment is passed, STAN will support the amendment to the Children's Group Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, Mrs Langšádlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, for us too briefly. For the pirát we support this law, we are pleased that a long-term solution has been found, which means stabilizing children's groups in the future and which shows that our parents will have freedom of choice. With regard to the overall process of deliberation, it has already fallen, the resulting compromise means an agreement - I think a very good agreement, but at the same time, that for a very long time, the children's groups have been in doubt. Let us not forget, the next time we discuss similar topics, that for thousands of operators our arguing, unfortunately, here, in particular, arguing between different ministries, is a huge uncertainty. One thing I would like to poke out and stress: because funding mechanisms are set up in a way that makes it possible to valorize prices so much without having to go into the law, we will not have to open this law unnecessarily in the future. This, too, seems very important to me to adopt standards that will not have to be constantly adjusted in relation to inflation. And last thing: I'm glad that we managed to negotiate the name, because the different types of names that are used today - kindergartens, children's groups and somewhere even a nursery - are simply the option that is right, and the formal designation of the children's group that they have in their legal documents is what is absolutely unnecessary to change. So in this respect, I tried very hard to avoid unnecessary introduction of the name change. An amendment concerning the possibility of hepatitis B vaccination not being a condition of admission to the paediatric group is a matter of professional justification. The reference is set out in the justification for the amendment and I would like to emphasise it is an amendment that we are proposing with our colleague Professor Válek, because it is one of those vaccinations where we think we can consider an adjustment that is necessary against hepatitis B. This is the last comment on the vote on this proposal. Once again, we support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. The TOP 09 party has been involved in the creation of children's groups, we have been fighting for their preservation all the time, and therefore we are very happy that there is a comprehensive amendment that will preserve this maintenance of children's groups, and we believe that we should create conditions for parents to choose which form of care they choose to pursue their professional and family life, and of course this is one of the children's groups. That is why I am very pleased that there has been a comprehensive amendment that will enable them to be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, too. The Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment by Mrs Richterová, which has been applied to the Government's bill and concerns the scope of the Ministry of Health, has been mentioned here. This amendment complements § 50, paragraph 92k. 4, on the protection of public health, on a general exception, so that the adoption of a child into the care of pre-school care subjects is not subject to regular vaccination against viral hepatitis B. [[9.30 hours]] The amendment provides for the exclusion of the condition of regular vaccination against viral hepatitis B in general and without limit in time. However, it is apparent from the reasoning of the petitioners that it was intended to address the situation of children vaccinated between 2011 and 2017 by pentavaccine. I believe that this change is not justified, the situation of children vaccinated in the past with pentavaccine can be addressed individually. Moreover, in practice, we do not see any significant problems with the admission to kindergarten or other preschool childcare facilities in children who were vaccinated with pentavaccine at childhood. These children are vaccinated with a monovalent hepatitis B vaccine. In order to be admitted to a kindergarten or other preschool child care facility, vaccination is usually sufficient. Parents mostly accept this approach. The benefit of hexavaccine replacement is not pentavaccine, since the hepatitis B component does not increase the incidence of adverse reactions after administration. On the contrary, the child is stressed by three extra puncture wounds during the degradation of vaccination. Furthermore, the proposed generally formulated provision is eligible to lead to the breakdown of the vaccination calendar for the future, given the wording of that condition, which is not time-limited. Compulsory vaccinations include hexavac in infant age, which includes the hepatitis B component. In the case of general dislodgement of this obligation, an increase in vaccination requirements can be expected, which is not desirable and currently neither possible since the pentavac vaccine is not available in the Czech Republic. Hepatitis B is a serious disease that increases the risk of developing cirrhosis and liver cancer in adulthood when an infection is experienced in children. The risk of a possible infection is not negligible as pediatricians record injuries to toddlers for injection needles during play in the sandpit, in public transport and so on. For these reasons, I cannot therefore agree with this amendment and I would like to ask you not to support it either. After all, the unsupporting opinion was also expressed by the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Minister. It is Mrs Aulická Jírovcová's turn to prepare Mrs Eva Fialová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In other areas, in any case, I will try to be brief and understand me first. I would just say to Minister Adam Vojtěch about the amendment proposed by Mrs Richtrová. I think that, even in committee, it was almost clear that this amendment would not be supported. I'd be more or less short, I don't know if everyone here understood how you lectured. In fact, we don't even have an approved vaccine in the Czech Republic that contains or doesn't contain that part of hepatitis B, which means that you can't even talk about it more or less anymore. As for the final bill on children's groups, it was born very hard when I use this analogy. I must say that this is a really huge and big compromise under the KSČM. Even until then, I am not sure that the whole club will support this compromise, because the essential things we insisted on, that means reducing the age of children so that children really go into the children's groups and more or less the children's groups have followed up on pre-school education, which means pre-school education, so it didn't work out. We see a situation for what reasons it is. Of course, we have talked a lot about this, and even some colleagues believe that it is the compromise that is on the table today, and where we have given a certain shift, they may not support it precisely because they do not see - or rather see the threat that children's groups could replace kindergartens in small municipalities or in large municipalities, which of course is not our effort, because it is KSČM primarily supports the form of kindergartens, which means quality preschool care. But what I would point out. I miss the Minister of Education here again today, who, even though he may have attended the whole discussion in the beginnings, more or less then during and at the end he was no longer present at all. I think that this area is especially his, even if this law falls under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Although we may not agree with some things, on the other hand, we know that the Ministry of Labour has taken a great deal of work and great effort to have the complete form approved today, to actually be all involved, and I am very sorry for the Ministry of Education in particular, that it has actually given up any effort to help create this law or this amendment and rather come and dig for kindergarten schools and for caring for children from the age of three, because the shortcomings in certain places of the Czech Republic, that means capacity, are enormous. This is also followed by the contributions which are in kindergartens and which are now linked to the financing of children's groups for the future. And I'm not just talking about funding, how much it's getting, the 5,000 crowns per child, but maybe the fact that money isn't actually valued for food and so on in the long run. And these are the things that are troubling us, and unfortunately we will not be able to solve at this time. On the other hand, we perceive that there are over 50,000 children in children's groups who may have a chance somewhere, on the other hand, in most cases they really do not have the option, and therefore children go to children's groups, because the lack of capacity in kindergartens is manifested precisely by the fact that hunger for childcare is enormous from year to three years. Therefore, I would just like to say for us that today some, perhaps the whole club, now I cannot say who is present, will support a comprehensive amendment, but we are doing this with great respect and at the same time we aim - and I believe that in the next parliamentary term it will also be one of the priorities for us - to return to the children's groups again, of course, to kindergarten schools in general and overall on the issue of preschool care and education, and to take the best care for children under three years of age, as well as for children who start to be educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Okamura, Vice-President Okamura, then Mrs Fialová, has once again applied from the post - Mr Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u20	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to use the presence of Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Dear Minister, I wanted to urge you from face to face not to put those muzzles in public transport and commercial centres again, because, as you know, the Supreme Administrative Court has almost for the thirty-th time abolished your measures because it is against the law. I think that's enough, because the SPD movement, as you know, was the only MP that voted against the so-called pandemic law. You all voted for him here, including the government and the opposition. We pointed out that it would be against the law and that the law was pasculi. I wanted to invite you to stop breaking the laws of the Czech Republic. You're shaking your head, aren't you, and the courts here decide that you are. Last week, it was 24 times that they threw it off your desk, and yesterday it was again. I think that the covid history and subsequent missteps were already on the part of the government, Prime Minister Babiš and you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, enough. And I want to challenge you to let people breathe freely and not put those muzzles back on their mouths. [[9.40 hours]] I think, too, the campaign against people who are not vaccinated goes beyond all limits. The rights of people are completely ignored, including in these matters the findings of the courts. There is a situation where people do not go to vaccination because it requires their health, but because they are forced to do so by bullying and threats. Many doctors point out that vaccination with antibodies is not recommended, yet people take it to escape complications. The last time I consulted my doctor yesterday, he also told me that if I had antibodies, he didn't recommend vaccination. The decision on vaccination must be voluntary and individual on the basis of a risk assessment. And if, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch of the YES movement, you are suggesting the possibility of compulsory vaccination, so, Minister, I say for the SPD, I suggest the possibility of us going into the streets, and there will be no fun with us, because it has really been enough, your endless violation of the laws of the Czech Republic. It's already in a few dozen cases, and we're going to ask again as the SPD of the House to abolish the pandemic emergency. We are asking for this here every proper meeting of the House and each time our proposal for both the government parties of the ANO and the ČSSD movement and the opposition parties reject us. And now we're collecting signatures, so let's see if some of the other parties sign up for us to call an extraordinary House meeting to ignore the Supreme Administrative Court's decisions on your part as Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health. I'd like to comment on the tests. If the state demands tests, then it just has to pay people, and we just don't allow the covid dictatorship here. Again, vaccination must be voluntary. Who wants to get vaccinated, get vaccinated, why not, that's a voluntary decision, all right. But those who do not want to be vaccinated must not be discriminated against. And you, Minister, repeatedly take not only illegal action, but even consciously. I do not understand how this situation can happen and that the House is silent because not only Minister Arenberger, but ministers here say that in some cases you even know that it will be illegal, but you will do so. And I really think that's completely unacceptable. I also think that you can't prepare your proposal without the court bringing it down... I really don't think you have the right to limit citizens of the Czech Republic in such a way across the board, unconstitutionally and against the law. I really wanted to urge you to stop, because this isn't normal. And notabene, when it's a minority government. You simply do not represent most of the citizens of the Czech Republic, neither the YES movement nor the coalition with the ČSSD. Well, I want to challenge you strongly here. I know this is a different point, but you yourself started talking about this topic in the previous performance, so I followed up on it. And I wanted to challenge you strongly, and you should really comment on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u21	I have two priority rights, but first two factual points. Mrs Hyťhová, Mr Luzar, factual remarks. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. Mr Navrkal apologizes for personal reasons today and for Friday's meeting, Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes today from nine to the end of the day for personal reasons, Minister Adam Vojtěch apologises for the 114th meeting from 11 o'clock for working reasons, Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologises today from nine to the end of the day for personal reasons. Well, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. I will not speak to the law, but to the foreman, I have the right, because I have chosen a factual point and I am responding to my previous speaker. I would like to follow up on Minister Adam Vojtěch here and on what has already been said here because yesterday I witnessed this - and I would like to tell you here, I have another minute and a half - that 15 people were thrown out of the restaurant because the waiter was not given a negative test. The waiter checked tests or vaccinations, and I witnessed 15 people being thrown out of the restaurant, including children, and had no right to eat, eat lunch. So I wanted to say - and to appeal also to Minister Adam Vojtěch - to really consider his orders, because when he came back into office, he promised us that he would no longer make such regulations, which would later be abolished by the Supreme Administrative Court, and we see that this is the case again. The Supreme Administrative Court once again canceled the drapes, the respirators and other things and we are back where we were. I am sorry that this is not for the law, but I am using my right to make a point of fact, and I thought I should tell you here, because Minister Adam Vojtěch obviously does not respect the courts, and I would like to hear his comments on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, the Vice-Presidents, but above all the Vice-President Okamura, through the President. In your speech, you showed absolute political demagogy. You're challenging us to support you, but you're insulting us. KSČM was the one who criticized the pandemic law hard here. I have performed here with my mouth, and I have warned you more than once not to act as "me, me, me, me and us SPDs alone." That's not true. You lie to these microphones repeatedly. If you want the House to agree that the pandemic emergency and, in general, the consequences of the pandemic law are over, offer a helping hand rather than insults and seek compromise, and not just me, that you are the only righteous ones. It's not like that at all. And the KSČM is here to draw your attention to the fact that we need a majority in the House to enforce our interests. The House has the right to terminate the order of the pandemic law, but it must have a majority. But you don't get the majority through your process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Juchelka, will be prepared by President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss key laws within 11 hours, where children's groups, their operators, their children, their parents, families are waiting for us to give them a message again from September in some way so that they can put their children back in children's groups. Then we have a law on social law protecting children, where everyone expects an increase in foster care after eight years. And we're going to be jumping into some sort of Tomio Okamura demagogy at the moment?! [[Upset.]] Are we really crazy?! Do we have an emergency meeting of the House on three key laws on social affairs, and are we going to be dealing with the pandemic law here? I'm begging you to stop right now and focus on the points we have under the program. I'm begging you, because everyone's waiting for it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u27	A point of fact, President Bartošek, then Mr Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I ask you to lead the debaters to order, to respect the Rules of Procedure and to discuss the subject, which are children's groups. Today we are gathered to discuss three key social laws. If you want to deal with the abolition of the pandemic law or any other matter, call an emergency meeting for this and don't mess with your exhibition today. If we want to help the children, let us discuss this law, let us discuss it, but above all respect the time given to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Holík, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, dear guests, I would like to respond to Mr Juchelka. Yes, there was a delay here, but two days ago we were here, Thursday - Friday, talking about stupid things instead of dealing with things! That's why these are today's. Well, I'll just be a very brief one. Unfortunately, the company has now split up with us. She split up with people who are better, they're vaccinated, they can go abroad, they can go on vacation, they can take kids to kindergarten, and then people who haven't been vaccinated. Two weeks ago, we were here discussing the law on sterilization. At that time, a number of women were also sterilized. They say it wasn't without them, but we are currently doing something similar. People who are vaccinated and not vaccinated. And remember, ten years from now, maybe 20 years from now, this House in a different configuration will decide that people who have been vaccinated will be compensated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights. To Mr Bartošek - I can only appeal to my colleagues to stick to the original subject. A factual point responds to the debate, not to the speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like other party members, specifically Mr Juchelka of the ANO movement, not to tell me what to talk about or not by your means. The SPD movement here in the House every moment suggested a point of repeal of the pandemic law. You have repeatedly rejected us, which is why you have made it impossible for us to talk about it in proper meetings. And now you're telling me I can't talk about it? You've got to be kidding me! So you're going to refuse us several times to talk about this at proper meetings - yes, I have always suggested this point at the beginning of the meeting to discuss this point, the votes of the members of the ANO movement have made it impossible for us - and now you're telling me that if I want to talk about it here, when you always reject it by your 78 Members, you're breaking the laws here, your government, so you're telling me that I'm not allowed to talk about it? Stop it, please! Stop it! I'm not here to watch it, I know exactly how it is. So please keep these notes. Either tell us the point so that we can talk about it at a proper meeting - you've always rejected us - or let me say what I can here, and it's in accordance with the House's Rules of Procedure, because I can speak with priority rights at any time, and I can speak on any subject. And to those who say that we might not be able to discuss this today: please, don't play me again, Mr. Ambassador, but since 11:00 a.m., the meeting here at the end of the abuse is unadaptable. If we speak quickly, which I hope no one will block, not even the pirát, then we'll be back to this meeting, we have until 2:00. So there's plenty of time, we'll make it all! The only condition is that we don't block our law against abuse of dosages that are inadaptable. Pirates like last time, so as not to be blocked by Mr Dolínek from ČSSD, for example, by Mr Čižinský from KDU-ČSL, and it is okay. We can do all the points. So you have it in your hands, we have enough time, and we want to vote everything. The only way we're gonna vote for everything is if you don't block it. And we - the SPD - are all in favour of these proposals. We're all on the agenda today. We don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u33	So, these were all factual - it was not factual, it was a preferential right. Both Minister Maláčová and Minister Vojtěch have decided to withdraw their preferential rights in order to allow the debate to continue. Mrs Fialová, Mr Bauer will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I will really get back to the point, get back to the children's groups, and I would like to introduce you to the position of the ANO member club. We are very much in favour of the compromise proposal that arose under the agreement of the majority of the MPs, and each of us had to make some concessions. This is not an ideal option for either party, but this amendment reflects requirements both from the field and from the children's group operators, from the parents themselves who put their children in children's groups, and for the ANO movement it was crucial to clearly defined funding so that parents know how much they will pay for the care of the child, how much they will contribute to the cost. Because of the relaxation of our age, we lacked the sense of why they should be called a nursery, because the nursery in each of us evokes care for the smallest. This comprehensive proposal reflects the wishes of children's parents up to preschool age, which is why we insisted on maintaining the name of the children's group. Only to the Minister, through Mr President: I understand that it was very bloody to agree on this, but the target groups who are using this service very much call it a child group. So I thank all my colleagues, who have worked intensively on this amendment for the last few months, have agreed with all the compromises, and I thank the Ministry for working very closely with us and looking for an accurate paragrafo text. That's very short for us, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. In the debate, Mr Bauer. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes today for health reasons, Mr Martin Kupka apologises today for personal reasons, Mr Marian Bojko apologizes today for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u36	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me very briefly a few sentences for the Citizen's Democratic Party. We have promised our parents in our country that we will save the children's groups, and I hope that after today's vote we will at least partially fulfill this promise. I would like to say that I have nothing to change in my opinion, which I have been saying here for perhaps a year. I am convinced that children's groups do not need any new laws, and all they need and need is that we find, above all, national funds to replace those Europeans so that children's groups can function in their current form, because they work and find their place under the sun. From the beginning, we considered the proposal with which Minister Jana Maláčová came to be winding up, we thought from the beginning that she could really eliminate children's groups, including for this reason we made a motion to reject at first reading, which unfortunately was not accepted. In the second reading, many amendments were read, as you all probably know, and we were convinced that none of these amendments could improve the bad version with which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs came, and you probably remember well that, above all, on our proposal, this bill was returned to second reading in order to be recast. Of course, we have joined the comprehensive amendment. I am not entirely pleased with it, I think it is not entirely perfect, but at least something but nothing, and I can therefore say that the Citizen's Democratic Party MP will support this compromise proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the third reading? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Then I'll ask the rapporteur. Or is there an interest in final words? She is not - neither Madam Secretary nor rapporteur. So we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I'll try - that's our jingle if you don't know. Now, I'm gonna ask you -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u38	Yet, Mr President, I do not technically know if I will be signed up here to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u39	Yes, it's -- it should -- it takes a while, but it should work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Let me present to you the 259th Resolution of the Committee on Social Policy of the 81st Meeting of 9 July 2021 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 961: "Committee on Social Policy Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after the second reading of the draft law I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law under House press 961/6 in the following order: A motion to dismiss the law has not been filed." Firstly, we would vote on legislative technical adjustments, if they are read, presented at the third reading in the framework of the debate under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Secondly, voting - Amendment B as a whole. I'll always tell you what it's all about. Next - And as a whole, only if B 8779 is not approved. And another - C as a whole, only if B 8779 is not approved. Furthermore, the vote on the law as a whole. In addition, the resolution "it entrusts the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinions at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the third reading of the bill. [[III.]] IV. It shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. It's a fairly simple procedure, but we're voting for it. I hope I've begun the vote. We'll wait a while. Wait a minute... now. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 3, it's registered 110, for 99, against no one, the procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Since there were no legislative technical amendments, we would vote on the amendment under letter B, which is a comprehensive proposal tabled by a group of Members. Committee recommendation: recommendation. Opinion, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u43	Yes. Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 110, for 105, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u44	Since we have approved this amendment, there are further non-voting amendments under letters A and C. We should therefore now vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-28-ps2017-113-01-001-001.u45	Yes, thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws, according to House press 961, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number five, 110 Members voted in favour of 105, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to the bill. Thank you all, and I finish third reading of this press. Opening point
