ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended, and some other laws / House print 903/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 903/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I suppose I can welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us - I see him - and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Before I give her my word, I will ask the House for peace. Please transfer any debates on the approved agenda to the foyer. Madam Vice Prime Minister, I'm going to try to get you some peace of mind. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin today's first item. If you want to discuss anything other than the Bank Act, it's in the foyer. Thank you. I beg the floor of the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give very briefly to the Senate a return to the Government's bill amending the Bank Act, the Savings and Loan Cooperative Act, the Capital Market Business Act and some other laws. The proposal was submitted because of the need to implement the amendment to the European Capital Requirements Directive and the amendment to the Capital Requirements Regulation, which reflected the global standard for banking regulation in European legislation. The aim of these European regulations is to strengthen the existing regulatory framework and to create conditions for ensuring stability, security and sufficient resilience of the banking sector and the entire financial system. In this context, I would like to stress that this is an implementation law, where the European Commission has already initiated the infringement procedure of a Member State's obligations by adopting a non-notification formal notification to the transposition of the Capital Requirements Directive at the beginning of February of this year. It is therefore absolutely necessary to complete the legislative process in order to avoid action by the European Commission and related financial sanctions. The amendment adopted by the Senate amends the Income Tax Act, on the basis of which income exemption arising from the proceeds of bonds issued by foreign taxpayers based on the territory of the Czech Republic is re-established, provided that they result in a non-resident tax resident who is not a capital-related person with the issuer of the bond. The Ministry of Finance has become familiar with the proposed change and my position is neutral. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to ask you to give your consent to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Vice Prime Minister and ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor and tell us something about the Senate's position. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, the amendment adopted in the Senate has already been presented at the Chamber of Deputies meeting at the 903, even registered in the system, but unfortunately it was not loaded in the context of a detailed debate at second reading. The solution adopted by the Senate will essentially result in a lasting and factually correct solution to the eurobond tax regime. The proposed change is intended to ensure that Czech tax entities can obtain the necessary financing on foreign markets without increasing the cost of these emissions compared to competing companies abroad. This is therefore to maintain the attractiveness of this financial instrument and to maintain competitiveness. That is why I am asking you all to approve the Senate version, because no other amendment has been added by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-001-001.u5	I thank Senator Zdeněk Nytr and ask if the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee resolution of the Senate wants to comment on the resolution of the Senate, Mr Jiří Dolejš, Member of the Committee on Budgets? He's not interested. I am opening a debate in this case. I'm saying I don't have an application for it. I said, who's applying from the scene? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote, first pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies, when the approval of the majority of Members present will be required to adopt the following resolution. [[Sounds like a gong.]] I let go of the gong. I'll wait for the voter. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. By asking, for reasons of decent environment, for discussions to be transferred to the foyer, I will wait for the candidates to sign up for the vote with their identification cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote. I think the number of entries is already stabilizing. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 903/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 903/6.' I've started voting number 31 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 31, of the 159 Members present for 121, against 2. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you, Madam Vice Prime Minister, and I finish point one. [[16.10 hours]] The next item is the approved agenda for our meeting:
