ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u1	546. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that it is possible to submit applications for oral interviews no later than 11 o'clock and they will be drawn at 11.30 in order for Members to speak in oral interviews. Allow me to state my apologies. For today's meeting Ivan Adamec apologizes for all Barbora for Lenka Kozlová, Věra Adámková within 10 hours for working reasons, Lukáš Bartoň for all day for health reasons, Ivan Bartoš all day for work reasons, Jan Bartošek all day for work Kohoutek, Martin Baxa for all day for work reasons, Josef Bělica for all day for family reasons, Petr Bendl for all day for work reasons, Jan Birke for all day for work reasons, Stanislav Blaha for all day for work reasons, Jiří Bláha for all day for work reasons, Irena Blažková for all day for health Zuzana, Brzobohatá Brzoboostá for all day for health Krutáková, Jana Černochová for all day for personal Levová, Alexander Černý for all day for health reasons, up to 10 hours for working reasons for all Grospič for work reasons, Marian Jurečka for whole family reasons Jaroslav Dvořák, from 12 hours for family reasons, from 12 hours for family reasons he apologies for family Kolovratník, for all day for all day for Majerová František Elfmark. Zahradníková, for the whole day Eva Matyášová for family reasons, Jana Pastuchová apologizes from 9 to 10 o'clock and from 14 o'clock for personal reasons, Petr Pávek until 12.30 for health reasons, Zdeněk He gave for family reasons for the whole day, David Pražák for health reasons also for the whole day, for the whole day for working reasons Vít Rakušan and Jan Richter, further apologizes for the whole day for health reasons Rutová Miloslava, for work reasons Petr Sadovský, for health reasons he apologizes for the whole day for the whole day Karel Schwarzenberg, Olga Sommerová for family reasons also for the whole day, Antonín Staněk for the morning meeting for work reasons, Pavel Staněk for the whole day for family reasons, Zbyněk Stanjura for working reasons for the whole day, also Pavel Šindelář for the whole day for working reasons, Julius Špičák apologizes for the whole day from 12 hours for working reasons, Karel Tureček for the whole day for family reasons, Helena Válková for the whole day for health reasons, Petr Venhoda until 11 hours for working reasons, for family reasons, for family reasons Václav Votava and for working reasons Radek Zlesák. When it comes to members of the government, pay attention to oral interpelations. By 14.30, or at the morning meeting, the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for work reasons, as well as Marie Benešová until 14.30 for work reasons, Klára Dostálová from 11 o'clock for work reasons, Jan Hamáček until 12.30 for work reasons, Karel Havlíček for the whole day due to foreign travel and until 13 o'clock for work reasons Jakub Kulhánek, and Lubomír Metnar apologizes for work reasons, Robert Plaga apologizes for the whole day for work reasons of work and he apologizes Alena Schillerová for the whole day for work reasons Miroslav Toman. I think we've explained for oral questioning who will be here and who will not be present. Věra Kovářová's apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies was received until 12.30 for personal reasons, and the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock, Ondřej Benešík apologises from 9 to 12 o'clock and Mr Farský from 12 o'clock to the end of the day. Then we have all the apologies that have come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies for today, and we can therefore proceed to the individual written intercessions with which the Members disagreed. There's a total of 19 interpellings and we'll start with press 707, and that's Olga Richterová's interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on fare discounts for disabled pensioners. It was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. The Prime Minister is not present, so we continue to maintain that the resolution on interruption is valid and we leave it until next time. Another press is 709, and this is also an interview by Olga Richterová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. The resolution is suspended until the Prime Minister is present, and I will therefore postpone it to the Prime Minister's presence. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mikuláš Ferjenčík in the matter of 2 000 billion money from our citizens from lithium. It is a press of 770 and it is also for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, there is also a valid resolution to interrupt. Mr. Andrej Babiš is excused, so I am delaying the Prime Minister's presence. Another is the interpelation of Věra Kovářová to the Prime Minister on the lack of capacity of primary and kindergarten schools, it is the press 897, and is interrupted by the presence of the Prime Minister, who is excused. I'm putting it off too. As far as further interpelation is concerned, it is an interpellation by Věra Kovářová in press 1015 to the Prime Minister and the hearing has also been suspended until the Prime Minister is present. It is also a further resolution. Another is the press 1017, also the interpellation of Věra Kovářová to the Prime Minister, and this is also interrupted by the presence of the Prime Minister. As regards the interpelation of Jakub Janda to the Prime Minister in support of the sport area in the time of the coronavirus crisis, he is interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. This resolution also remains in force. [[9.10 hours]] Another intervention is the interpelation of Olga Richterová to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, which is included in the Houses of Press 1107, and this is the payment of the contribution from the Antivirus programme. The Minister is present, Mrs Olga Richterová is also present, and we can therefore begin to discuss this interpelation. I'm asking if Mrs. Olga Richterová is applying for this interpellation? That's right. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u2	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm glad the secretary arrived after a lot of intercessions, that's fine. Given that this is a subject which is already to some extent passé, but at the same time those companies that have received disproportionately high - from their point of view - fines, from the point of view of the language of the right not to grant subsidies, it is not passé. So I would ask the Minister what corrective measures the Ministry has taken to ensure that, in the future, when subsidy programmes are published, in one two days of misconduct, there is not actually a 100% penalty. In what way did the Ministry learn from this unfortunate situation? Because I assume neither you, Madam Secretary, nor your subordinates were happy about it. So how did the bad luck that Antivirus meant for a number of payroll accountants who made a late application or paid late - and often just by a day or two - contributions, or companies that somehow didn't meet the strict conditions of the day, how will you take this into account next time, so that the subsidies would not be so sanctioned?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Richterová. Madam Secretary Jana Maláčová is about to answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the interpellation. I think that it is repeatedly unclear with Mrs Richterová what part of the Antivirus programme is asking because there is always confusion. I suppose I can answer for all types of Antivirus, that means A+ and B, but also C. I don't need to remind you that especially mode C is based on the forgiveness of contributions, and not on the classic cursarbeit mechanism. Before that, I would like to say that the Antivirus program has been shut down since the end of May. At this point, the minimalist flame is running, which means only the payment of the quarantine. The government extended this minimalist regime by the end of October so that God forbid we could be prepared for any autumnal need. However, we all hope that this will not happen and that the Antivirus programme will no longer be needed to restart or renew this year. As far as your question is concerned, I would like to say that I consider the Antivirus programme to be a huge success. He supported 74 211 companies. Once again, 74 211 companies. Overall, it cost CZK 48.7 billion and a total of 1,068 632 employees were supported from the Antivirus programme - 1,068 632, who were supported in the total number of contributions of 4 359 885. That means a huge, very successful program. And if we can distinguish it into these different modes, then it has to be said that The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has always been able - or, in particular, the labour authorities - to pay those contributions in a matter of days, and if, as I understand it, which was unclear where the Member was heading, which part of the programme, if the companies wanted to receive their wages from the Labour Office within a few days, the Labour Office had to set clear deadlines within the framework of this programme, by which time the applications had to be submitted for the whole system to work. And, of course, if these applications weren't made in time - which was happening, and even after some time when the program was working - then the claim for this contribution was lost. These are clear rules that are known in advance, and the aim was to provide very rapid and effective assistance to the state in times of crisis. So it's not a mistake, it's not a mistake on the part of the employment office, but the point is, it's clearly established when companies can file applications. If they didn't submit these requests in time, they lost their claim. I think that this is a system that we know from all the spheres of the state's operation, and it leads to the fact that the labour authorities were able to provide assistance on average in the order of five days, and that is crucial why the Antivirus programme worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u5	Thank you. Mrs Richterová is yet again reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u6	I wanted to move on, but I'll get back to the matter. I thought by discussing this a few times, we could move on to what the Bureau learned from it. So let me recap. The point is, let me give you an example of the need for an unforeseen length of transfer to an account with the County Social Security Administration, so it was credited a day later, and the company was not actually entitled to Antivirus C afterwards. The point is that it is an disproportionate penalty, which, if Antivirus C did not exist, but followed the standard law - I quote it to you, Minister, 589/1992 Coll., and there is a set when, as, the overview is given, when and to whom the social insurance is paid - then he would receive a penalty in hundreds, a maximum of thousands of crowns, simply adequate to the minor error, but at the time when we had the Act 300/2020 Coll., so actually the sanctions, the factual situation for companies, where there was even a delay in crediting - perhaps even the sending could have been on the right date - so the sanctions were actually ten to fourteen times higher. The aim of the Antivirus was simply to help companies. And all I wanted to do in this interview is ask how the Authority wants to deal with this excessive hardness in the future, because there may be a situation in the future. And there is a possibility to eliminate the hardness of the social security law - that is an option for the minister or minister - and it would be possible to forgive at least the part of the social security that actually constitutes pension insurance. I know that in the past, you answered that you didn't want to apply it, and I'm just asking here how you want to prevent the Authority from forgetting in future possible situations that when it sets out subsidies, there are disproportionately severe sanctioning conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u7	Madam Secretary has an interest in answering once more. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u8	Thank you. Thank you finally for the specification that you're referring to Antivirus C, because you're repeatedly confusing the individual regimes. So as for Antivirus C, it worked a year ago, a year ago, I'm warning you. It was a change of law that we approved here together. I warned you repeatedly that if you wanted to change the deadlines for payment of social security or social security contributions, it was necessary to apply it in the amendment of the law. If, of course, the condition for the remission of contributions for companies up to 50 employees was, as is always the custom - the deadline for fulfillment by the 20th day of the following month - and if the company did not comply with this deadline, then of course it lost its right to Antivirus C. Unfortunately, this is how it is, but if there is a condition, it must be fulfilled, and the law is clear. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has no option - or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - from his decision to change the law. It simply cannot be done, Madame. If you felt the need to mitigate this day, the 20th day of the following month, this should have been applied in the framework of the amendments to this law. It cannot be started a year after that and have different views on it. [[9.20 hours]] As for your comment on the decision to eliminate the hardness of the law, I am repeatedly pointing out here that the entire apparatus of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not agree with your interpretation that the elimination of the hardness of the law can be applied in this case. It can't be done, it would be against the law, it doesn't concern this situation at all. So I disagree with you, the few companies, or a few dozen companies that have failed to meet the conditions that are always equally valid, that the 20th day of the following month has been valid for a very long time and even the Antivirus C program doesn't change that. I am very sorry, but these were the conditions that when they were not fulfilled, so unfortunately companies could not apply the three-month forgiveness. I'm very sorry, but the law is clear. If the conditions are not met, Antivirus C cannot be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u9	Thank you. Mrs Richterová is also interested in applying. Then, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u10	I don't want to go back to the past, we've really discussed this here. But what I want to remind you is that, in other cases, the law simply allows and remembers - and that is what I quote - that the Minister can remove the hardness that would occur in the implementation of social security and can instruct social security administrations to remove hardness in individual cases. And I am simply trying to understand what the Ministry has learned from forgetting such a clause on the possible removal of hardness to work into the law that was passed here in the covido period. My point is purely that this excessive rigor, for example, in the situation that has happened in several cases and which I have described, when the wage accountant has proven to be seriously ill, and then actually caused the damage to the company, or when there was a late credit for one day when the company was damaged by it, and it is the disproportionate hardness that I am talking about, it is a lesson to me in the future, and that these provisions, which otherwise are part of our legislation, are not neglected in the preparation of similar laws or mechanisms in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u11	Thank you. Now, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u12	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, through the President, we have praised ourselves here as we have done an excellent programme, and I do not question it at all, on the contrary. I think it was one of the programs that was really good. But your words - you were supposed to change that in the law hearing - for God's sake, when did we approve of that law? In a legislative emergency, we approve one after another, overruled the amendments, approved it at a time when basically, don't be mad at me or the government didn't know how it was going to turn out, let alone those people who stopped doing business day after day stopped having their livelihoods. And the fact that some, especially the small ones and the tradesmen, made mistakes, the Corse, those who have one accountant and so on, it just happened. And I understand Mrs. Richterová here -- yes, what happened was. The fact that some are in trouble again, because the hardness of the law has simply affected them, and they have to return the money at a time when they don't already have it, is unfortunately a bare fact. But like I said, it happened, it did. And the question is, yes, I hope we're all smarter now, so how will that be prevented? Yes, we approved the cursarbeit, I understand it, it's another instrument that could be used in some cases, declared by the government, I understand it, I just think that a number of measures have been taken by the government and a number of measures have been abolished by the court. Yes? And that's okay. And here, when there's a question about whether we really are in these cases, and a colleague here said it, day two, really in time I would say to the slightest, here we are unable, and you say that you can't and it's against the law to soften the impact of the law. In fact, I don't blame those people and their disillusionment. We really should focus on the question that my colleague has asked whether you think this is okay, or whether after an evaluation of this matter, you have come to the conclusion that if something happens in the future and any programme is written, approved by law, legislative emergency and so on, you will already remember the possibility of softening the consequences of the law, if any. I'm not saying it has to be, but the law should remember that. With all due respect, you cannot want the Chamber of Deputies to do so in a legislative emergency, when all of this is approved one day, including amendments that need to be evaluated and the like, not to make a mistake or forget it. So I think maybe if you answered one or two sentences to a colleague's question, we'd all save ourselves a lot of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u13	Thank you. Now, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I know it's a year back, but I'm going to ask the esteemed President Vostroa and esteemed Mrs Richterová not to confuse - I'm sorry for the expression - apples with pears. It doesn't concern businessmen, because at that time, they had for six months forgiven contributions completely. Yeah? So that's one thing. Second thing. We had a valid Antivirus A and B programme here, we had a valid Antivirus C programme here, and I also remind Mrs Richterová that at that time the possibility of deferring social security advances worked. Those are all things that are wrong. I know, because it was a very complex mechanism that worked, but it worked, and the conditions were clear. If I want to be eligible for state support, I have to meet the conditions. Those were clearly given. We think they're set right. I think the figures clearly prove this - more than 74 000 companies have fulfilled these conditions and a few dozen companies have not met these conditions. It's very sad, but I think that if the vast majority of companies did it, then the system was set up correctly, and then there were a few dozen companies that didn't reach forgiveness. It's probably a viable financial loss for these companies, but the conditions were pre-clear and we set them consciously. Once again, as regards the possibility of forgiving the hardness of the law, Mrs Richterová confuses two things. The instrument for the forgiveness of the hardness of the law concerns the contributions of employees and their pension rights. It cannot be confused with the fact that companies did not send their share of the employer in time. These are two different parties, two different instruments, and it is not possible to apply the provisions relating to employee pension claims to companies. Please don't confuse it. As regards Mrs Richterová's question, and if I should reply briefly, we are not considering removing the hardness of the law. It's a change of law. At this point, the Antivirus C program hasn't worked in a year. It was effective in the first wave, but at this point, we're not planning to reactivate it. It would be a change of law. If this had happened, which I don't suppose, because at this point we have an approved cursarbeit, I don't think that we, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, would have thought about moving the time limits when contributions for employees have to be paid, that is, by the 20th day of the following month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u15	Thank you. Mrs Vostrá, then Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u16	With all due respect, Madam Secretary, now the conclusion was at least the answer to that question. Thank you for that. Otherwise, we're here, or at least I understand that my colleague Richterová was taking the question in general, so that you could constantly tell us that we've mixed something up, I don't think it's entirely fair. First of all. And secondly, since you've already gone into the details that we're mixing employees and employers' contributions, the practice is that even for those employees, the employer sends them away, so if he sends his part late and you want him to do it in some way that he didn't meet the conditions, I understand that, but unfortunately he sent it late for the employees too. That payment really consists of two parts. So it's not exactly what you're saying, but thank you for the answer, although I feel like we've all been talking a little bit about something else, because my colleague's question was on a general level. But the lesson for us and certainly for Members is that once this government presents in a legislative emergency, we have to be damn careful and we have to consider whether we will support this accelerated discussion in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u17	Thank you. Mrs Richterová now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u18	That's right, I'll just pick up the subject, the more general topic, which, after all these months of interpelling here, is meaningful in my view, is to teach the state not to be disproportionately strict on people and small businesses in situations that are critical, when no one could simply count on what was going on. And I was trying to point out that here we have remembered in other laws of elimination, the possibility of mitigating the hardness of the law, precisely because it is simply happening and that this is the principle that the legislator must be thinking about, and that the Ministry and we here did not think about it at a speed in the case law. But I asked about the future, whether the Ministry would remember it in those cases that might come up, and how the institution would retain this experience, the experience of being extremely unfair, when, in particular, smaller companies could simply be seriously financially damaged due to some isolated event, typically with their payroll accountants. And on this, I believe, a very constructive question for the future, which actually leads to institutional memory and to the State's systematic support for the fact that when something exceptional happens, people are to be given the possibility of some sort of solution and relief, so instead, it comes only and only "no" here. I don't think we need to discuss this anymore, but I declare for myself that these are exactly the situations that the institution is supposed to maintain, it is supposed to have a process to learn that this has simply been very unfair and traumatic for the few dozen companies, and that it is unnecessary that the state is simply supposed to be able to systematically improve such things, that the state is supposed to treat calm as quickly as possible. And this principle, I think, should be all the more true when it comes to critical time, covid time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u19	So I ask if you are proposing a resolution, Madame? No. But the Minister still wants to respond, just so I know how we're going to react to the outcome of the interpelation. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u20	So I have to react very briefly once again, because it is very traumatic for the employees of the employment office to listen that if we have supported more than a million unique jobs, more than 74,000 companies have helped to listen so that for a few companies that have failed to meet the conditions clearly laid down by law, everything should be forgiven. Indeed - Antivirus was a very successful program, unique, rated by all companies as the most successful government anti-crisis program. I thank all the employees and employees of the employment offices because they did so beyond their usual agenda, they saved tens of thousands of companies, hundreds of thousands of jobs. Few can imagine what a tremendous burden it was, how much work and effort it was. And I would really like the Antivirus programme to be appreciated because it has kept the lowest unemployment in this country throughout Europe. It is a huge success, and I understand that of the more than 74,000 companies, a few dozen companies have not touched on the remission of contributions. I understand that, however, the conditions were clearly laid down by law and we, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, respected the law. We think the conditions have been set correctly, not to forgive everyone. The law is clear and we do not count on change in the future, because, on the contrary, we have approved the Cursarbeit Act, which we want to apply in future crises, and it does not count on this instrument. This means, if I were to sum it up: Antivirus was an extremely successful program, thank you to all employees who participated in its functioning, we greatly appreciate your work - we greatly appreciate your work, the employment authorities have really increased their reputation. And in the future, we're not counting on the change, because we have a functional cursarbeit law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u21	Thank you. Since no motion for a resolution has been made, the interview with the press 1107 is over. Before we begin another interview with Minister Maláčová, I still state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Jan Jakob apologizes from 14:30 to 18:00; Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes from 9:00 to 11:00 for personal reasons; Mr Tomáš Vymazal from 9:00 to 11:00 for health reasons; Mr Kott from 14:30 to the end of the day for business reasons; and Mr Adam Kalous between 13:00 and the end of the day. These were further apologies to the President of the House, and we will continue to interpel to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, namely press 1115. It is the interpellation of Mr Marek Novák in the matter of the undersized OSPOD, i.e. the bodies of child care. Mr Marek Novák is reporting for the debate, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, this interview is dated 5 November 2020, so it does not seem so up-to-date, but I am addressing the Minister again with a request to answer the fundamental questions that are currently linked to the under-dimension of the institutions of social-law protection of children. According to the information I have from individual regions, the employees of the OSPODs are still being overloaded for a long time, complaining of an unbearable amount of work. Madam Secretary, I asked you how the burden of individual institutions of social-law protection is assessed. Unfortunately, I did not get the answer to that question. You told me that from 1. 1. 2015 there is a binding personnel standard, with 800 potential clients under 18, 80 families or 40 in case of a family replacement care agenda. You also add that according to information from the beginning of 2020, almost one fifth of municipalities providing a territorially divided statutory city are undersized in addition to the municipal authorities in Prague and some of the locally divided statutory cities. I have the impression that no one really cares about the personnel issue of the segment regarding the OSPOD. Therefore, I ask you to answer my question, and specifically how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs deals with regional specifics within the OSPOD. In addition, I am also interested in whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs controls and evaluates the personnel burden of individual OSPODs, whether there are entries from such surveys. I also ask for an answer to the question of how it can be expressed as a percentage of compliance with the mandatory standard of human resources ensuring the social and legal protection of children. In fact, what measures does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs want to implement in the first half of 2021, or has it implemented precisely to avoid overloading OSPOD workers? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u23	Thank you, Mr Marek Novák. Madam Secretary Jana Maláčová is going to answer, please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u24	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Mr Member, for this interpellation. You know, in the month of November of last year, we've been communicating intensively about your inquiry, but we've also been responding. For the last time, I have a detailed reply from November 27, last year, and thank you for that question. I'll give you some basic information. [[9.40 hours]] As regards the mandatory staffing standard for ensuring the social protection of children, to which municipalities with extended scope should follow, this applies and is defined as from 1 January 2015, by Decree No. 473/2012 Coll., on the implementation of certain provisions of the Act on the Social-Legal Protection of Children. The basic starting point, as you have rightly mentioned, is at least one OSPOD worker for every 800 children under 18 years of age registered for permanent residence in the territory of the municipality with extended scope. This number is derived from the expected number of children who can become clients of the institutions of social law protection of children. This is further attributed to the criterion of a maximum of 80 families with which one employee of the OSPOD works, or a maximum of 40 families in the case of employees carrying out an alternative family care and social curators for children and youth. According to our statistics, 64 cases were based on one employee of the OSPOD on average in 2019, including both simple acts, such as one-off performance of the child's collision custody, and more complex and repeated tasks. I would also like to point out, honourable Member, that the exercise of social protection for children is a delegated exercise, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not have a direct impact on the number of employees of individual offices, since the determination of the number of employees assigned to the municipal authority and the approval of the organisational order of the municipal authority is a decision reserved to the municipal council in a separate capacity in accordance with § 102 para. 2 of Act No. 128/2000 Sb., on municipalities. The evaluation of the need for other workers, especially in the field of child welfare, is carried out by the municipalities themselves. Control of compliance with these standards is carried out by the regional authorities, as stipulated by the law - that is also to be borne in mind. The current main problem is the insufficient number of potential workers of the OSPOD in the labour market. That is why, in recent years, we have taken some major steps to ensure that the financial evaluation of these experts increases so that we always have a sufficient number of candidates for this very important and crucial activity for respect for children's rights. I think that the last step that really helped the situation and basically increased the prestige of the OSPOD workers is that in 2020, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we reassigned OSPOD personnel from the 10th to the 11th grade. This is a thing that has been mentioned for years, and I am very glad that last year has finally succeeded, and the number of people interested in this activity has really increased. Otherwise, the general rule is that always designing and increasing salaries in the public sphere helps this issue and leads to more qualified candidates for these positions. It is also important to say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs provides municipalities with an extended scope of funding for the operation of the OSPOD, which is paid both ex ante and ex post, where compensation is granted to municipalities for eligible expenditure for which the grants granted in each year are insufficient, since the subsidy should cover all these costs of the municipalities. In general, there is an increase in the budget for this subsidy. Nevertheless, it has been difficult in the past to provide enough funding precisely to ensure the financing of child welfare bodies, because in some years there have been failures or insufficient increases in the municipal budget. According to the draft amendment to Act No. 359/1999, on the socio-legal protection of children, which perhaps next week should finally be approved by common forces at third reading, should be transformed from a subsidy to reimbursement of costs, and sufficient funding should be guaranteed for the operation of the OSPOD in municipalities with extended scope for the following years. I think that this is indeed a systemic change that will lead to a fundamental improvement in this whole area. And I firmly hope that next Wednesday - because this point is set for a firm time - we will finally, after seven years, be able to approve this amendment by common forces. As regards the increase in the budget for the subsidies of OSPOD, it should be said that since 2018, when the budget was CZK 1 080 million, it is now CZK 1 590 million and for next year we propose an additional increase to CZK 1,655 million. That is, if we were to compare the budget over the last three years, we increased it by almost 60 percent, which is not a small amount, I think we can agree on that. This means, even in this area, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been fulfilled under my direction. I certainly hope I haven't forgotten any aspect of your interpelation, or I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u25	Thank you. My colleague, Marek Novák, is reporting for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u26	Thank you, thank you very much for the answers, I appreciate it and, of course, I will also be happy to be able to discuss the amendment to Act No. 359/1999, on the social and legal protection of children. However, the answer that we have on average 64 cases per worker does not satisfy me completely, because it does not give me any information about whether regionally or not individual workers are overloaded, whether we are able to evaluate according to the regions, according to the municipalities with extended scope, to identify the problems of the lack of people, or you say that there is, of course, a regional office responsible, but there is a ministry over the regional office. And there is a need for the ministry to be at least a gesturer and for the ministry to help, and if the region - or the community with extended scope - is unable to advise, then it is necessary to intervene and not let children without the help of workers of the OSPOD, or let overloaded workers of the OSPOD not solve things at the given speed as needed. That's my point. That's why I'm asking if this is being monitored regionally? Because the nationwide average itself isn't gonna give us much of a clue. So, specifically, how and to what depth is the oversize or undersize of the OSPOD workplaces evaluated?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u27	Thank you. Madam Secretary will be happy to answer. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u28	Thank you. It is a little more complicated from the point of view of individual competences, but I am very happy to answer. Together... or I have been able to increase the salaries of OSPOD employees by more than half over the last three years, the subsidy budget for municipalities with extended scope to carry out social-legal protection of children by almost 60 percent. Last year we managed to include those workers from the 10th to the 11th grade, which is a very systemic thing. Next week, after long years together, we will approve the amendment to the Act on Social Protection for Children, which will indeed bring about systemic change, and above all, the fundamental stabilisation of the financing of social-legal protection for children. And once we have accomplished this task, we can join forces in the last few weeks and months of the government's functioning on personnel standards. I will be very happy to have your support in this matter, because I also believe that, especially in excluded localities, these personnel standards need to be increased. So it will be great news when, in addition to the really numerous fundamental systemic changes that we have been waiting for for many years, we will also improve personnel standards, because it will lead to children who have bad luck and grow up in difficult living conditions having even more support from both state and self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u29	Thank you. My colleague Novák wants to propose a resolution? No...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u30	I don't want to propose a resolution, I just didn't get the Minister's reply. I still haven't gotten the answer to what depth we're capable of or whether we're analyzing the burdens of individual workers at all. But of course I'm gonna wait, because I get it, it's been a bit of a hectic time. But I'm usually used to adding money after analyzing the problem. Of course, I'm very happy that these people will be better rated because they deserve it. I am glad that, in a way, the system change will also be reflected in the amendment to the Act on Social-Legal Protection for Children. But on the other hand, I'm getting very concerned that we're raising money where we don't even have it analyzed, and then there may be a threat that the money will go to waste. That's all I'm saying, and I'm done asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u31	Thank you. Madam Secretary still wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u32	We've got it analyzed, Mr. Ambassador, all your numbers are in that written reply from November of last year, I can send it again, I don't think I'm gonna read it here. And I disagree with you. These employees are well educated, most of them do, or when we got into office, they had a little over 20,000, and I think that's a lack of financial appreciation. I agree that 65 or 64 cases on average per worker are too many. There are various cases, statistics are incomparable. As I was saying, there are one-time operations, but there are long-term problematic recurrent cases where really intense performance is needed, and it is necessary that the work can be of good quality and can be effective, reducing the number of families per worker. So in addition to a whole series of system changes that I have listed in previous answers, I think it is necessary to work on improving the personnel standard. I'm sure we'll welcome your support for this at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u33	Thank you. Since the resolution has not been proposed, I can end this intervention. We will continue with press 1124, this is the interpellation of Mr Lipavský to Andrej Babiš on the economic advisor of the President of the Republic of Martin Nejedlý. It was interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. The resolution is in effect. Another is the interpelation of Pavel Žáček on the protection of classified information in the Office of the President of the Republic to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, was interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. There is also a valid resolution. And now Olga Richterová's next interview with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is Jana Maláčová on occupational rehabilitation. It's printing 1135. Mrs Richterová is prepared to state the reasons which led her to interpelation. I'm sure the Minister is ready, too. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u34	Thank you for the floor. It is a matter which I think is to be one of the difficult but very important domains of the employment office, namely providing opportunities for working rehabilitation for people with disabilities, so that they can then apply to the open labour market. It is a big question of active support and in the countries that do it, it pays off, people are more involved in society and everyone can be more satisfied in the finals. In our country, Madam Secretary, you are implementing a project to develop a system of support for the employment of people with disabilities in the free labour market, where it actually builds on the previous project. This particular one's been here since mid-2017. I'm just saying this because I started this in June 2017, so I asked specific substantive questions in June 2020 to have an idea of how the project was developing. I find it very important as it is filled. The answers did not satisfy me very much, so after more than a year since sending the original questions, we can finally have a personal conversation here. And that's why I'm going to remind you of the basic axis of questions. I was simply interested in the number of people with reduced working capacity, which, of course, can be very diverse in people with disabilities, used labour rehabilitation services, and also succeeded in the open labour market, and how labour authorities specifically help and mediate such work to people with disabilities, how they distinguish different types of disability and the like. I was wondering what working meetings are going on for labour rehabilitation and the involvement of employers in the regions of the open labour market. And, of course, I have already described in the interpellation how it works or doesn't work today and what specific suggestions I have from practice that it really isn't ideal for us. Then, as far as the answer is concerned, I have analysed it closely with the team, and I will now specifically respond to a few things that will show that there is no great progress in this commendable goal. In terms of numbers, I would like to know if you, Madam Secretary, feel that actually about 670 people with disabilities who applied through labor rehabilitation in the open labour market between 2016 and 2019, out of about 37 000 people with disabilities who were in ÚP's July 2020 register, are sufficient. I want to show a discrepancy between tens of thousands of people with some health problem of different types, which are in the register and they would be entitled to this support, with a small number of several hundred people who, through this support, applied to the open labour market, which is simply a very small result. And another thing: what are the specific measures, specific methodologies, specific support at the branches of the Labour Office? What education is being given to workers who are to be specially trained for people with disabilities? That's not clear to me from the answer either, what the procedures are there. I will ask two more specific questions. One of the tools, one of the solutions is to be an expert working group at the branch office, and these are clear feedback from the field. In that working group, employees or employees of the employment office meet and often apologize to representatives of organisations employing more than 50 percent of people with disabilities, so that so-called protected workshops, and no longer employers from the open labour market are involved. So that's another thing. If the Labour Office wants, and I believe that it wants, these are the declared objectives, to build partnership networks and to increase the quality and accessibility of social and labour rehabilitation, then why does it not focus on cooperation with employers from the open labour market, on municipalities, on other local aid bodies? They don't exist in those professional working groups at all. I would like to raise that question. Why are not representatives of other territorial actors and employers from the open labour market, with whom the Labour Office is trying to work in some way? But the results are just small. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to give the second particular question that actually the employers filled out the so-called jobmatching questionnaires to show how they're disabled, who they're willing to accept, how it might work. I'll give you the last sentence, number. You told me, Madam Secretary, in reply, that between 2017 and February 2020, which is also important to say that, of course, since then, he has been a covid, so I would not count further, but in this period, which is relevant, employers willing to employ people with disabilities have completed 4 293 such jobmatching questionnaires and that 883 have been used to directly mediate work for disabled people. So out of all the completed questionnaires, you used less than 21 percent to directly mediate the work. But how do you work with the remaining almost 80 percent of the employers who filled out the questionnaire? And what are the other questionnaires used for, if not for the mediation of work? [[10.00 hours]] These are specific questions and I am glad that after many months we can discuss them specifically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u35	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. Madam Secretary is ready to answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u36	Thank you, Mr President. As regards the tightening up of Mrs Richterová's question on this area of occupational rehabilitation, I would like to add from specific questions that the Member draws attention to the lack of a system of coordination of individual means of rehabilitation, i.e. rehabilitation of health, pedagogical, social and labour. As far as only work rehabilitation is concerned, it should be pointed out that it has been systemically incorporated in the Employment Act since 2004. Social rehabilitation has been included in the Social Services Act since 2006. It is also necessary to say, before we begin to germinate individual data and individual answers, that the introduction of coordination of individual means of rehabilitation in the Czech Republic goes beyond the substantive scope of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Logically - health rehabilitation concerns the Ministry of Health, pedagogical rehabilitation of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I think it's obvious. Rehabilitation as such is, according to the definition of the UN, a process aimed at enabling people with disabilities, damaged by injury, illness or birth defects to achieve and maintain an optimal physical, sensory, intellectual, psychological and social level of functions, and providing them with the means to change their lives to achieve an even higher level of independence from others. And there is a need to say that this goal cannot only be achieved through work rehabilitation, but there are really very important others, the social, health and pedagogical ones. It must also be said that the involvement of all actors is important for the successful rehabilitation of people with disabilities, which means not only the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic as a provider of occupational rehabilitation, but also providers of health services, education providers, providers of social services and, of course, especially those with disabilities themselves. Then, in order to get to the heart of the answer, it is also necessary to admit that not every person with disabilities must necessarily go through work rehabilitation, because in the context of the definition of rehabilitation of MPSV has in the past identified the weak side of work rehabilitation, and this is an inadequate link to the other means of rehabilitation, which, as I have already mentioned, fall within the gesture of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education departments. As I have already mentioned, we are trying to systematically address the area of social and labour rehabilitation. To this end, the recommended procedure number 1 of 2016 is valid from 1 January 2016 to support the implementation of the transition system of social and labour rehabilitation of people with disabilities. We consider the set-up of work rehabilitation to be functional, and if I were to briefly describe it, this is the state-owned law of occupational rehabilitation, and this is being implemented under Section 69 of the Employment Act. Furthermore, the labour authorities provide labour rehabilitation for all OPAs who request it! Participation in work rehabilitation cannot be directly directed to disabled persons. That is what I think is the crucial point from which all efforts to improve and increase the coherence of the system will be based. The main principle is therefore the voluntary and free decision of the OPA to participate in the work rehabilitation. And then it is important that every person with disabilities in the Czech Republic has the opportunity to choose the way in which their involvement in the labour market will be achieved with regard to the health, individual needs and other social factors that make up the individuality of this person. As far as occupational rehabilitation is concerned, it is also available to people who are at risk of disability, such as patients at the end of the treatment phase in stable health. I think it's going to be even more up-to-date these days, as we monitor the rehabilitation of people who have had a tough time with the covid. There is a need to say that they can apply for work rehabilitation for the duration of their incapacity to work, preparing for new employment, for example, by preparing for work with their current employer and thus preventing any unemployment. It is also important to motivate these people to work rehabilitation. As far as requests for temporary incapacity are concerned, the Labour Office is still registering this number in units of cases. With regard to the employment of people with disabilities, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is logically paying particular attention to this issue. That's where we've been doing some extra correspondence. I will mention the individual points of interpelation under registration number 1291 of June last year and then the subsequent electronic submission from December of last year. As far as individual statistics are concerned, it should be said that the Labour Office provides work rehabilitation, as I have already mentioned, in accordance with the Employment Act on the basis of a closed individual work rehabilitation plan. The right to occupational rehabilitation is provided by the OPA, which may not be in the register of job seekers, which is also important to say with regard to how a question has been asked by the Member. OZP must submit an application, which is available on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As regards specific statistics, between 2016 and 2019 the Labour Office concluded a total of 1 729 such requests. For the comparison between 2015 and the end of May of this year, the Labour Office closed 2 232, which means that the covido situation has indeed shown to have led to a significant increase in these applications. Even if I had a different perspective, 225 applications were closed in 2020, and 73 IPPR was closed from January to the end of May this year. That means, it really shows that covid has a major influence on this issue and that the number of such requests will really lead to increased interest. As far as the second part of your inquiry is concerned, between 2017 and 2019 15 000 OZPs from job applicants applied to the open labour market. The information provided to you is related to the question about the realization of work rehabilitation. And if I had to show some comparison again, the period of June 2008, it is important to look at it, there were less than 298 000 job applicants in the register, of which 60,000, rounded up, were people with disabilities. In June 2019, i.e. 11 years later, there were some 196 000 job applicants in the register, 34 000 of which were disabled. And when we compare it with current developments, as of 30 May, there were some 286 000 job applicants in the register and almost 40,000 of them were OZP, so we really have a lot of variations. You have already mentioned some tools on how we can help with work rehabilitation for disabled people. We have some instruments for this, especially active employment policies. That's where we're trying to continuously increase the state budget. However, the project is key to developing a system of promoting the employment of people with disabilities in the free labour market. [[10.10 hours]] With regard to the current results of this project - and I take it at the end of May, because we still haven't evaluated those statistics in June - we placed 7 717 people with disabilities on the labour market at the end of May, directly advisors for people with disabilities, from this number of 7 700 roughly 4 861 were placed on the open labour market and 2 856 on the protected labour market, that is to say about two to one. This means that twice as many OZPs have been placed on the open labour market compared to the protected labour market. Overall, it was at 31. 5. provided individual advice to approximately 73 000 people with disabilities, exactly 72 677. As of May, 3 550 group advisory activities were implemented for 26 481 people with disabilities and 26 848 employers were contacted for the same time to establish or deepen cooperation in the employment of people with disabilities, 16 700 of which were on the open labour market and 10,000 in the protected labour market. Again it turns out that the ratio of two to one is roughly - I take it through my thumb - kept. As far as occupational rehabilitation is concerned, 1,310 applications for occupational rehabilitation have been submitted within these figures, we are talking about the end of May of this year, and 1 129 IPPR has been closed. Because I have some other five or six pages of specific statistics here to answer all of your questions, and it's really a very important issue, very fundamental, we realize the importance and contribution of the interlinked rehabilitation system, so maybe I'll cut it short and not read all the actual information, or I'll be happy with the accuracy, and if I forgot something, I'll add it to that. I totally agree with you, it's important. You know that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, before the outbreak of the Covide, has worked very hard for a coherent system of health, social, work and pedagogical rehabilitation, however, covid has drawn a line across our budget. However, there is still a need to say about your last question about professional groups: they are formed on the basis of the Employment Act, by law there must be representatives of people with disabilities and also employers in the protected labour market. Everyone else is at the discretion of the Labour Office, as we have information from our colleagues, so we always try to respond to the regional situation in individual regions and even in districts. And there is an important assessment of suitability from the point of view of health, representatives of municipalities from our point of view do not make very much sense. This may change if the proposal on social entrepreneurship, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs participated in, is approved and submitted by Mr Chvojka. This would then increase the need for representatives of municipalities in these expert groups, but it should be said that the function is voluntary, unpaid and not always interested in the participation of individual representatives of those groups, so we really try to motivate those representatives according to the individual situation in the individual regions and districts so that not only the law is respected, but also the function, the real function of the expert groups was maintained and the employment authorities had good feedback from the terrain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u37	Thank you, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Mrs Richterová is also applying for an additional question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u38	Thank you. It is a big project, and therefore I will simply ask how many people work on this agenda at the Ministry, and in general how many people in the Ministry deal with the agenda of people with disabilities, whether we know how this important agenda is covered by personnel. The fact that some aspects, although coordination and health rehabilitation, are in the gesture of others - I did not even mention that because it is obvious - I therefore focused on what you have in the gesture as a rehabilitation work. And in addition to the number of people who are engaged in this important agenda, I am also interested in two other things, and that is how you deal with reality - not that we have the law, that is clear, but how you deal in reality with the right of people with disabilities to get this support for this work rehabilitation. Let me give you an example. Does the Labor Office, for example, have adapted documents for people with a certain type of disability, such as mild mental disability? Not in my experience, so I'm wondering what the specialized approach is, where it has a reflection in practice. The second thing is whether you have statistics on professional working groups, because it's just a big project, there's actually a lot of money going into it, so how do these key tools work to get people with disabilities to support, namely, how often do employers from so-called protected workshops, where they have more than 50 percent of ozP? I'm not even talking about how important it would be for those other local actors to be there, and unfortunately, I haven't been answered. I understand that this may be something you don't have in your background, but I'd like to know after this interpellation. So how do you work with those who show some taste, but those numbers show that they've fallen through a sieve, okay? With those employers who expressed their will to employ people with a certain type of disability, but only 21 percent of the questionnaires completed by the employer seem to have been used. And one last thing. It is really important that the overall practice is reviewed and transparent. You spoke of an active employment policy, but still in November 2019, the Ombudsman asked the Government to correct the illegal practice of the Labour Offices, which according to the Ombudsman are acting illegally and not transparently in deciding on applications for active employment policy contributions, such as the establishment of a socially effective job and the like. I want to point that out, because it concerns people with disabilities, too, when their right is not fulfilled and their application for work rehabilitation is not fulfilled, and it is very difficult to review today. So these are specific questions. If I get the promise of answers, I think we've filled the essence of the interpelation here to see that it's an important matter for tens of thousands of people, and at the same time that the project, as I see it, has significant limits, that it would be great to get an interim report on how it's being implemented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u39	Thank you. Madam Secretary is going to answer further. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u40	We'll take it one step at a time. Regarding the communication with the Ombudsman's representative, it must be said that the alleged illegal procedure of the Czech Labour Office in deciding on the contribution of the APZ - and it is the Government Agenda No. 1069/2019 of 6 January 2020, there has been a development in the meantime and the Ombudsman's office has accepted the explanations provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This means that there has been no illegal action by the Labour Office, that is to be said. As far as the statistics are concerned, how often the individual groups meet and how they communicate, we will be happy to deliver. We can even split the area apart. It has to be said that at the time of the covid meeting, these meetings were closer, logically, because we were trying to alleviate epidemiologically significant contacts. However, I also have information that we have moved into an online environment over time, which is undoubtedly good news. [[10.20 hours]] I would like to point out once again that the meetings or participation in the working groups are voluntary and not paid, not rewarded. As for some other figures, for your information, Madame, it has only occurred in 2020, I will probably not be bored with the others, with 4 021 meetings with organisations with which the employment of the OPA can be dealt with within the so-called regional cooperation networks. There are 269 schools and educational establishments, 1,385 employers in the open labour market, 1 228 employers in the protected labour market. But I'll probably give you all this in writing so that we don't mess with the microinformation that is definitely important, the statistics, so that we can evaluate how the whole cooperation works, but it clearly shows that the project is very well-functioning and has a good footsteps despite the unfavorable epidemiological situation and the intervention of the covid that really affected all of us. As far as information is concerned, how many people are employed on the project, so on the project, and it is a really big project, 99 people, 99 people are employed. It is a project funded by European funds. As far as your question is concerned, how many people work in the OZP agenda, I cannot specify this because the OZP agenda means care contributions, it means social services, it means contributions to the employment of people with disabilities and depending on how you define the entire agenda, so then we can give you numbers regarding systemization of individual agendas at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs according to what you are most interested in. It is from the point of view of working and social rehabilitation that everything is relevant. And once again, as far as the employment aid project is concerned, we are extending it until the end of 2023, because it is actually evaluated as very functional, effective, and as I have already told the statistics in the previous block, as well as to people who need our help and need to be included in the maximum, because they are really helping, in society, so we have decided to extend this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Richterová is still interested. He's either gonna make a resolution or he's gonna ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u42	Thank you for promising me that I will get information that I assume you have as the basis for today's interpelation. At the same time, I would like to stress that I am precisely asking whether, for example, the documents with which officials work are adapted when dealing with a person, for example, with a mild mental disability. And the second thing about the jobmatching questionnaires, what just happens to the 80 percent that look like they haven't been used. I just want to know how rigorously this project works with all those who have shown their willingness in any way to assist and engage. And I just want to make sure that I can count on getting these answers into my e-mail, plus the detailed figures you quoted, Madam Secretary, in part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u43	Thank you. Can I end the interpellation with this? Madam Secretary will gladly answer once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u44	As always, you will receive all the information you ask for, Madame. I guess the last answer was seven pages, full of statistics. So whatever you need beyond this seven-page answer, we are very happy to provide, because we are really trying to do a great deal of work on this matter and to help people who need the help of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u45	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Jana Maláčová, and I conclude the press meeting of 1135. We will continue by intersecting Jan Farský to the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, who was interrupted into the presence of Minister Havlíček. He's not here, Deputy Prime Minister. The order on interruption is therefore valid, as is the interpellation of Marian Jurečka in the case of the convicted lobbyist Roman Janoušek. Interpellation to Marie Benešová is interrupted in the presence of Mrs. Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary of Justice is not present. The same is true of Mr Jan Jakob's interpellation to Karel Havlíček, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of Transport and Deputy Prime Minister in the case of ŘSD, 1216. There is also a valid resolution on the interruption to the presence of the Minister. I made an apology at the beginning. And now here we have an interview by Mrs Dana Balcarová to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček on the Czech-German treaty to improve the navigability of the Elbe. It's a 1259 print. Minister Havlíček is not here, but Mrs Balcarová is interested in commenting on this interpelation and is likely to propose a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would therefore like to ask for the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of Minister Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u47	Thank you, the motion to interrupt is made. I'm gonna sing. We've had a higher presence here than necessary, but since part of our colleagues have gone to the lobby, I have to wait until they get back. All the other interpelations are for Minister Benešová and Minister Havlíček, and if there is a motion to interrupt, I would like to vote them. We will now decide on Mrs Dana Balcarová's proposal to interrupt the presence of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, discussing her reply, which she disagreed with regarding the preparation of the Czech-German contract for improving the navigability of the Elbe according to press 1259. We will vote in the 81 order vote that I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour of interrupting this press? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 81, from 82 in favour of 44, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another is the interpelation of Mr Petr Bendl to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Mr Bendl is not here, so I must use § 112 para. 6 and end the discussion of this response to written interpelation. Another is the interpelation of Mr Jakub Michálek to Minister of Justice Marie Benešová on the loss of judicial experts. My colleague Michálek was here, but he is not here right now, so unfortunately, I will wait a little longer, but I can only say that § 112 para. 6 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies and this interpelation is terminated. [[10.30 hours]] Another intervention is the press 1251, which is the interpellation of Mr Jan Jakob to Jan Hamáček on information on the case of the Armenian family and similar cases where people are at risk of being expelled. My colleague Jakob is here, and I'm asking what he's suggesting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for the interruption of the consultation to be held in the presence of the Minister. It's the case of the Armenian Christian Khachatryanův family. [[Chachatryan's]] It's their fate, and unfortunately, I've been given general information that everything is under the law, but I'd like more specific information, so please interrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u49	Thank you. We will vote on this in the vote number 82. Motion to interrupt the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček. I started voting number 82. Who agrees with the proposal to interrupt this interpellation? Who's against it? No. 82 votes, 84 votes 38 against no one. I'm asking if anyone wants to check the minutes of the vote? If not, I can't do anything but... This will be taken by Mr Černohorský, who already has a record of the result of the vote. [[There's no objection.]] Never mind, okay. There's nothing we can do. I'm sure Jakob will find a way to move forward. By doing so, we have exhausted all the answers to the written interpelations, and I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting within 11 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u50	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. Before we proceed to discuss today's first point, I will ask the Vice-President of the Election Commission, Mrs Monika Jarošová, to introduce us to the results of the elections yesterday, Wednesday, 7 July, before the end of the meeting day. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-001-546.u51	Thank you for the floor. So I'll start with the first choice, she was.
