ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-003-400.u1	400. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2018 /German press 441/ We have suspended the discussion of this item before the rapporteur's speech on 24 October 2019 at the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the time of the hearing by the Election Committee. The electoral committee discussed the report, his resolution was delivered to us as Parliamentary Press 441/1. I therefore ask now that Mr Petr Dolínek take the floor of the Committee's rapporteur, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-003-400.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues. As has been said, the annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2018 was circulated to all Members on 29 March 2019 as press 441. The Organizing Committee has instructed the Committee to discuss it on 4 April 2019. The Committee has discussed the report and recommended its approval, with the conclusion that I will also read to you the precise resolution of the committee. At this point, I would say a brief summary of the content of the annual report. The annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2018 documents and evaluates the fulfilment of the legally defined service to the public through the creation and dissemination of television programmes or other multimedia content and ancillary services throughout the territory of the Czech Republic in the reference period. This assessment is based on the description of the Czech Television's obligations as a producer and broadcaster of television programmes, in particular the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 12 of the Czech Television Act. Read it - and now I ask you to try to put yourself in quotation marks and feel it. I am talking about the activities of Czech Television in 2018. So if I'm going to talk about digitization and other things, please go back three years to how you remember how Czech TV worked. I will then also ask in the discussion to try to stick to it, because, of course, there are other reports. So, in 2018, Czech Television successfully prepared for the second wave of digitalisation of Czech Television and managed to launch the DVB-T2 transition network in a record short time when it met the requirements of the Technical plan of the transition within 42 days, while at the same time covering the signal reached 99.6 percent of the Czech Republic. The program ČT1 increased by more than 1.1 percentage points in prime time and was very successful in 2018 as well as in the Czech Television news program. The full-day share of ČT24 increased to 4.38 percent, reaching the highest value in the last five years. ČT24 is the most successful news programme among public service televisions in Europe in terms of participation in the audience. Czech Television also developed a dual broadcast in 2018 that allows viewers to choose between the edited version of the work and its original text. Czech television has achieved very good results in terms of supporting new media, as the audience's demand for the possibility of watching programmes through the Internet, mobile applications or other new options has been growing and growing in recent years, as you know. I believe that the report, as we discussed on the committee, contained nothing that was not relevant and that would call into question the conclusions of the Czech Television Council at the time. As has also been said by the resolution which he recommends, it follows that public television performed its tasks in 2018 under the Czech Television Act, and therefore I, as rapporteur, recommend that it be approved here. I am prepared here, if you want to talk about individual channels, of course, I am prepared here to talk about other partials. Of course, I do not mention ČT D, because we talked quite a lot about déčko, if you remember, in the last discussion and it is still a phenomenon within European televisions, when it really has a huge market share in its segment, so we don't have to talk about it again. I am also able to talk about ČT Sport here, of course, where we can talk about what programmes were preferred in 2018 and what was important. Of course, I'd just like to say that ČT24 had 19 profile shows that year. Events began, Studio 6, Hyde Parks, Fokusy Václav Moravec, Political spectrum and so on. I would just mention, therefore, that ČT24 had five extraordinary projects - and I would mention this here: it was the Presidential Super debate, Third Republic, Beneš 1918/1938/1948, of course the International Film Festival in Karlovy Vary and Čapek and Fridays. This means, it really turns out that this is a very wide spectrum that Czech television and its news channel have been able to cover. So I'm going to say one more thing here, which is always very popular in these reports. So I'll tell her in advance so we don't have to track her down afterwards. A total of 1 933 guests were invited to the show Events, so in 2017 it was only 1,600, so there was an increase of 333 guests. Of which 333 were from the sphere of politics. 796 guests took turns in the studio during the year. The most frequently addressed were representatives of the ANO movement, who received 552 invitations - 357 in 2017. Representatives from the Social Democrats were invited 405 - the year before 456. Civil Democrats 275 - year before 246. The order according to the number of invitations received was as follows: YES, ČSSD, ODS, KSČM, KDU-ČSL, Pirates, SPD, TOP 09, STAN. I would like to conclude by saying that, because I know that this is often the subject of news about the activities of Czech Television. [[11.30 hours]] As I say, I am prepared to devote myself to each channel separately, just as I am prepared to introduce other partial things, of course. At this point, that is all for me and, finally, I am saying: the committee has recommended this report for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-003-400.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, I have no application for the debate - and Mr Jakob is reporting from the post. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-003-400.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one question to ask myself, because this annual report is here, as it has fallen, for almost two years. In a few moments, we have more annual reports, which are similar over a year or less, with more than 120 different reports and information on the agenda. I wonder why these reports are currently being discussed, at a time when we all feel pressure on Czech television, at risk of its functioning, and unfortunately political pressure. Therefore, allow me to draw attention to a few issues relating to the discussion of these reports, and what further connotations this may have. I would like to draw attention to a few provisions of the Czech Television Act. According to Section 2 Czech Television provides public service through the creation and dissemination of television programmes or other multimedia content and additional services throughout the Czech Republic in order to meet the democratic, social and cultural needs of society and the need to maintain media pluralism. I would point that out here, because at a time when we know what the ownership structure of the Czech media is, I consider this to be absolutely crucial. In the next paragraph, it is said that the main tasks of the public service in the field of television broadcasting are, in particular, the provision of objective, verified, balanced and versatile information in its entirety for free making of views. In the report on the activities of Czech Television, this is discussed and analysed in detail and it is clear from the data that this task is being carried out. Another task is to contribute to the legal awareness of the citizens of the Czech Republic, but also to the creation and dissemination of programmes and the provision of a balanced offer of programmes for all groups of people, taking into account the freedom of their religious beliefs and beliefs, culture, ethnic or national origin, national identity, social origin, age or gender, so that these programmes and programmes reflect the diversity of views and political, religious, philosophical and artistic directions, with a view to strengthening mutual understanding and tolerance and promoting the coherence of pluralistic society. I'd point that out. Furthermore, it is the task of developing the cultural identity of the citizens of the Czech Republic, including members of national minorities, but also of ethnic minorities, and last but not least, it is the production and broadcasting of news, publicist, documentary, artistic, dramatic, sports, entertainment and educational programmes and programmes for children and youth. I mention this precisely because many of these tasks are being questioned by politicians in particular, and these reports show that, on the contrary, Czech Television is properly carrying out these legal tasks. I would like to point out that in Section 4, which concerns the Council of Czech Television, it is stated that the Council of Czech Television is the body by which public law applies to the control of the activities of Czech Television. I am stressing these words here, the right of the public, not the right of the politicians represented in the Chamber of Deputies. And now I would also like to draw attention to the conventions that bind to the approval or non-approval of individual or two consecutive annual reports. This is described in Section 6, when membership of the Czech Television Council ceases to fulfil those standard options, such as the expiry of the term of office or resignation of office, by withdrawing from office the date on which the member of the Board no longer meets the conditions for the election of a member of the Board provided for in Section 4 paragraph. 3 or death. Furthermore, the appeal is addressed here - and here I would draw particular attention to the possibility that the Chamber of Deputies will withdraw a member of the Board from office if it has ceased to meet the conditions for the function of members of the Board set out in Section 5. Please note that we will probably be dealing with this matter in the near future, because Section 5 is in paragraph 5. 2 provided that a member of the Council may not hold any office in political parties, political movements or civil associations and so on. And we know that one of the council members seems to have a problem with this, and we are waiting for the position of the legislative or electoral committee. But the most fundamental thing we will find in Section 6 at this time in relation to annual reports is paragraph 1. 3, which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Council fails repeatedly to fulfil its obligations under this law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row the annual report on the activities of Czech Television or the annual report on the management of Czech Television." I would like to draw attention to two other provisions of this law, which are subsequently linked to this. The first of these is in § 4 in para. 4 when it is said that in the case of appeal of the Board pursuant to the already mentioned § 6 para. The Council shall appoint five members of the Board with a term of office of two years, five members with a term of office of four years and five members with a term of office of six years at its first meeting by lot. This is where I draw attention to the "all council members" connection. So if there is an appeal to the entire board, then it is necessary to wait until the whole board is elected to draw up a term of office and the new board can start working, which is certainly an important moment in time if this situation occurs in the future. [[11.40 hours]] The second aspect that I would like to mention - and may have some connection to it - concerns § 7 para. 2 where the competence of the Board is determined to settle, and there is a quorum for how it votes, how it needs a majority for the various powers for which the Board may vote. And here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the decision to appoint or dismiss the CEO of Czech Television requires at least 10 votes of the board members. This, too, may have a relatively significant effect on the procedure, and it could, in my opinion, have an impact on what objective can be achieved. And now - thank you for listening to the legislative connotations, because there are actually alternatives to what may happen in various variants of approval or disapproval of these annual reports - and here I have the question marks that are actually the target, and although we will decide by voting, we will undoubtedly also know why this procedure has been chosen. What alternatives can arise? So what can there be in this direction towards Czech Television variants of tacticalization and achievement of various goals? It may be that both reports - now I do not distinguish between reports on the activities of Czech Television and reports on the management of Czech Television - so it is possible that both of these reports will not be approved here. According to Article 6 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In such a case, the Chamber of Deputies may appeal to the Council, so it can be assumed that, following the approval of two successive reports, it should be possible to vote on the appeal of the Board as a whole. There may be two other options here, i.e. that the vote will not be called, or it will be, and if it does, whether the appeal passes or not. And here I can have - I can speculate about the goals that this should lead to. If the board were to be called off, it would, of course, be necessary to give new advice in the following period, and it is necessary to allow the whole of it to - as I pointed out in Section 4, paragraph 4 - start working. And here it is possible to speculate on what is supposed to be the goal, whether to achieve a clear majority on the board with 10 votes, when there are 10 votes on the board, the board can call off and appoint 10 of the 15 general director by this majority. I can ask myself whether this is the goal or not before the elections, even if in these time connotations this is achieved or not. If both of these reports were not approved, there was no appeal of the Board, so basically from the point of view of the law, apart from the fact of non-approval of the reports, there are no legal consequences, although the question is, how would the Councillors of Czech Television take this up. This could be a pretext for negotiations on the appeal of the Director-General, but if this were to be a non-approval of the annual reports on the activities of Czech Television, it would not be entirely possible to assume that because the report also includes a report from the Czech Television Council, in this case it would be more likely for those reports on the management of Czech Television. So far, I've exhausted one of the alternatives that could happen. Another alternative is that the first report will be approved and the second one will not be approved. Then there will be a decisive discussion of the report - and now again it is, I do not distinguish whether it is an activity or a management - for 2020, which is likely to be ahead of us in the near future. And that would be crucial, whether or not the 2020 report would be approved. If she hadn't approved, there would have been the process I described in the alternative before. Should it be approved, the condition of § 6 para. is of course not fulfilled. 3 because it would not be repeated, i.e. twice in a row, non-approval of the annual report. Another alternative is that the first of those reports under discussion will not be approved and the second may not be able to be discussed, so it will remain open and then the possibilities can accumulate according to how the annual report of 2020 will be discussed, or that the first report will not be approved and the second report will be approved, and therefore we again do not fulfil the condition in Section 6 paragraph. 3. Last but not least, of course, there is the possibility that both reports will be approved, notabene, as proposed by the committee, but we all know that this is always a very long discussion. However, I wonder whether this too can be a purpose, especially at a time when these two reports really lie here for such a long time, and no one has dramatically minded and waited for some moment when this discussion will be an opportunity to take advantage of these legislative conventions. [[11.50 hours]] That is why I wonder whether it can also be an objective for all these reports to be approved, so as to limit the scope for all possible variants that I have just described in the future. Thus, in other words, simply put, the procedure under Section 6 (2) of the basic Regulation. 3 in the sense of two non-approvals of annual reports would be postponed until this year's activity report is discussed, i.e. 2021, and it would not have been possible to use this paragraph until then. If I am to translate this into a very clear speech, that is to say, that after perhaps two weeks the Council of Czech Television will complete itself and it is a question of who will be satisfied or dissatisfied with who, what personalities will get there and what interests they will defend, and we all know that there are very problematic personalities there, especially in the connotation of today's events, completely proven candidates who defend the interests and propaganda of other foreign powers in our territory, and I therefore ask myself that if both reports, or all four of them, are approved, then the possibility in the future, when constellation will be somewhat different and democratic parties in the Chamber of Deputies will again have a majority after years, will prevent these people from being dismissed by this form from the Council of Czech Television. You know, I've got a bunch of questions in that whole palette of alternatives that can happen. I'm afraid we can't learn the target that's being followed here except by the vote itself, where we'll be able to outline what anyone here wants to achieve. And I'm worried that at this point, when the news could have waited here for years, months, so why are we discussing it right now when it brings all these possibilities that can happen. Why are we talking about this or discussing it here at a time when four members of the Czech Television Council are in front of us, which can significantly influence the future functioning of the Czech Television Council? When we read the annual reports, we learn from them that the Czech Television is fulfilling what is legally imposed and, given the way in which the future is looming, but also the current composition of the Czech Television Council, so that the functioning and what the Czech Television has been holding so far has been at risk as part of what it is to do by law. Why is this discussion taking place at a time when we should be very intensely entertained in the convention of what I said a moment ago, and at expert level this debate has been going on for years, about the system of elections to media councils, whether it be the Council of Czech Television, but also the Czech Radio? Is this system the right one? Whether the interests described in Section 2 of the Czech Television Act, as I read them in the introduction, are we able to achieve them best? I don't think so, and what's happening today is proof of that. At the same time, I wonder why at this time? And this is related to the other reports on the management of Czech Television. If we were to start talking intensively about funding the public service media, we would systematically talk about it so as not to discuss whether to raise licence fees or not, whether it has been enough years, and I also do not think that this system is optimal. I believe that we will lead to an expert discussion, which is already underway among experts. And unfortunately, the system records that Czech television is under pressure regularly at the moment when inflation accumulates and it cannot reasonably count on the revenues it could have received in previous years, notabene, when the number of dealers is constantly decreasing, albeit very slightly. That is why I am asking myself these questions and I do not feel completely comfortable in this situation voting on those annual reports, because it carries all these conventions and I am not sure which of these trips is the right one. I think that we should wait in this regard and lead the first primarily with the technical debate that I have mentioned here. I am so sorry that I have been a little longer, but the legislative conventions are not quite simple and I wanted to accurately describe all the possible situations that are going to happen so that we are aware of them before the vote. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-003-400.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It's 11 o'clock 59 minutes, I can still put on - I can't, it's 12 o'clock. I'm saying we have to interrupt this point. Mr Nacher, then Mr Dolínek, and Mr Berkovec is registered for the debate. We will now focus on the fixed point, and I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-003-400.u6	Have a nice noon. I'll read an apology. Madam Secretary of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day of the hearing. And now let's open a fixed point.
