ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 337 and 338 of the 1008 and 1009/ A colleague named Adamec is registered in writing, but with priority rights are signed in by President Ivan Bartoš and Minister Arenberger. The first is, therefore, Mr Bartoš with priority rights. Minister Arenberger will be ready. I will give you my word in a moment, Mr President, but I will wait again for the situation in the House to calm down. If you have any discussion other than the third reading of the construction law, please in principle in the foyer. Just a minute. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I took the liberty of speaking with priority right briefly to the government or quasi-government design of the construction law. Maybe I'll start off a little untraditional. It is known that a group of Members across political parties, including myself, are opposed to the Government's draft building bill in its original version, in its amended version, and now that we are going back to the original proposal. However, as an opposition politician, I will give the Minister the truth in the beginning. Madam Secretary used these all-embracing words, and I'll give her the truth. Yes, our common goal is to accelerate the construction process in the Czech Republic. Yes, we are all interested in not prolonging the time when a builder or ordinary citizen who is building something waits a long time for permission to enter a process whose outcome is uncertain for him, whose course is unknown to him, and often depends only on the order in which the sheets are laid for the project and the building procedure in the glove compartment. Here I agree. I even agree with the part that we started in cooperation with the ministries, in cooperation with Members in the Chamber of Deputies, the opposition and the parties supporting the government, or which are part of it, that the basic pillar of the entire modern state apparatus should be digitalisation. But now comes the part where I disagree with the Minister. Will this government proposal solve the problem of building proceedings and its length in the Czech Republic? From transparent him? Will it make it more friendly to citizens or builders? Will public interests, for example, be better protected where constructions take place that are not in line with, for example, the issues of conservation or the environment? My answer is no, it won't. No, it won't. No, it won't. And I'll tell you why. We are heading towards the same goal, but the proposal that we are now going to discuss in the House assumes that if I take the problem - and objectively there are problems - if I take the problem somewhere in the village and move it to some kind of mega-office, the problem will be solved. If I take the experts who live in a given location and have knowledge of such as the landmark situation in that area or the issue of availability, when it is the safety of the building fired, and move them to one office, I will solve the problem and speed up the process. It's not gonna happen. As soon as the government came up with the first version of the new construction law, there were also significant reservations about this step from other resorts, which have been kind of cut down over time. What does the creation of the new Supreme Building Authority mean? It means transformation. [[9.50 hours]] We're in covid time now. I just saw the Czech state farm yesterday. At the beginning of May, I think we're in a 190-billion-dollar deficit. The money is already missing. The Ministry of Interior at the beginning of this proposal came up with such an analysis as to what it means to do the Supreme Building Office. In addition to talking about the fact that the ongoing construction proceedings and individual processes could be stuck for half a year, that it would not have been built in the Czech Republic or for longer, the transaction costs, which in that first stage were estimated at approximately CZK 20 billion. The analysis is still, I think, somewhere on the web, I don't know if the ministry or just somewhere copied from the people who reflected it. However, those were the reservations. So we have some problem that we can solve with modern methods, and we're going to take the problem in the government's proposal and move it to the Supreme Building Office, to a newly created office that may inherit or receive an object from someone, so we don't expect any of Babiš's quarters to be built in Letňany or anywhere, but it means moving. We were talking to the Prime Minister at the time, and he was terrified at the time. He's not here, so I'm not gonna cause the horror in him, but he already has the information that means moving officials at the same time, but not just physically to the authorities of the Supreme Building Office from where they normally work, but also under the service law. That was quite a bit appalled by the Prime Minister, so I don't know if he's already blocked this information in any way, or if it was one of the arguments why not do it, which is kind of formal, I wouldn't have a problem with people operating under service law. However, the reaction of the people involved, if you're working at some city building office right now, you'd suddenly like to be part of the Supreme Building Office, and I might have looked into that number during my short exit, it was all negative. So the people, the experts, who may be dealing with water protection, nature protection, disagree, and of course the will isn't there. They have their expertise, they apply it where they work, where they sit in their current agendas. And there are a number of things that we have not agreed to, and that is why, in cooperation with colleagues from the House, let's say the democratic part of the opposition, we have been preparing comprehensive amendments all along, namely our own proposal, which would be this centralist way of thinking, moving problems to headquarters, where everything will be resolved, which went against it and introduces so-called procedural integration. We have presented a modern bill proposal as an alternative offering digital solutions. Digital solutions in the sense that in one place a citizen or builder will submit his project, everything else happens on the so-called backend. Those officials who are responsible for this approach to the digital version, the material of the building process, when the version is one, there are no different variations rolling around at different stages, saw this, saw another. The documentation is processed gradually by everyone who joins this documentation, the building management project digitally on the Portal of the builder who pre-emptes previous legislation, and at the end of this process will be closed and the citizen or builder will basically pick up his project approved or approved with some modifications. That's what about 20 years, maybe more, before the pirát even went into politics, they talk about. That's because the authorities have to circulate data, not people. It always means citizens or builders with these people, but those people are also officials and experts who intervene in this process. They really don't have to move. Covido has taught us that a lot of things - and I am a little sorry that this is not the case with the House vote, it may work on committees, it works in the European Parliament - can be done from home or from a computer only. That's where our digitalisation proposal went. Process integration and digitization is better than the costly emergence of the Supreme Building Office and some sort of scheming with officials. We can argue that those estimates were tens of billions. I think the Czech Republic is in no condition to initiate this process. So that's the question of digitalization. I think that even in this government proposal, there are certain elements, but for us, this digital solution is much better. Perhaps now I will say one more thing - the Minister, like us, although at another time, was to see how the construction proceedings in the Nordic countries were taking place. There sits a gentleman, at least in the demonstration office - where there wasn't a single piece of paper, which surprised me a little bit - at the big monitor. He's got headphones on his ears, I don't know what he was listening to, bearded and complaining: Today I'm having a tough day, today I have to solve 34 construction proceedings - close. And we watched him do it all. The official opened on the monitor such a workflow on the individual steps of the building process, where it showed him which of the authorities concerned, which were not in any way reduced to their rights, had access to the proceedings at a given time and how much time he had left before fulfilling the legal limit of expression. And the system goes like this. When you have a red light "only four days" there, it clicks on the button, he sends an e-mail or some notifications to the authority or expert or the party concerned if something needs to be added, and in this way one person communicates with all the participants and at the end of the construction process - and now we can talk about whether it was too complex or perhaps simple, it also has to be distinguished, but this person does not solve it - he closes. The man planned that day to do with electronic documentation from his desk, on a table where there wasn't a single paper, 34 building procedures to the satisfaction of all, both those responsible for the partial parts of the authorisation of the individual elements of the proceedings, until the final consumer of the result, which was a builder or a citizen who decided to build something. I think this trip is worth the 21st century. I'm gonna say one more thing where we should go. We often talk, and maybe it will be the second part of my speech, to the fact that the 21st century is digital, and it also brings about a second thing, and it is decentralization, a decentralised century. It's a moment when you don't even have to hold some conferences in the covide today, where you pick up scientists' airplanes, where you book hotels for them, but people just connect to the digital platform, and you see a lecturer there, you can report, ask questions, and so on. At the same time, there is an important element of subsidiarity. That's the autonomy of the local authorities who know how to handle these things. I don't understand why, if even covid has shown that central management is absolutely wrong and we can't centrally manage hygiene, the government can't centrally distribute proper aids or vaccines, and these are four types of vaccines, why we're going exactly the opposite way than the world trend, why we're investing money in something that turned out to be inefficient and in such things as building management, in my opinion, even senseless. Officials who live somewhere where the building is being built have a much better way of communicating and evaluating. The second part, which will be discussed by my colleagues: we would like to significantly strengthen the role of the authorities. We will see which proposals will eventually succeed, because we are presenting our proposal as an amendment to the government, but at the same time we are focusing on sub-areas that we would like to improve with amendments, if necessary. And this is the role of self-government in obtaining territorial planning documentation, which should be a complete basis for the future process. So what we're saying is that if there's good planning documentation, most things can be solved in this plane, and if all the assumptions are met, then the construction takes place in a transparent predictable system that itself monitors deadlines. So at the moment I don't have to deal with any fiction or the fact that individual participants aren't following, but often it's also the builder who leaves it there, who doesn't know there's a requirement, like a supplement. [[10.00 hours]] That is why we would like you, once again, to consider here in plenary whether, at a time when the Czech Republic has major problems with financing anything when we have a high deficit budget, we want to go into such a wilderness. And I still argue that the documents on which the law was created are not correctly calculated and have not demonstrated the effectiveness of this solution in the future, whether the Czech Republic wants to embark on the project of the creation of the Supreme Building Office, to invest money in transformation - in my opinion with the result uncertain, in the opinion of many experts on the contrary destructive for the whole process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u3	I thank Mr Ivan Bartoš for his speech. The Minister of Health of the Government of the Czech Republic Arenberger will now perform with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Leo Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u4	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Let me comment on Mr Kalous's amendments number B6 and B7 which directly affect the competence of the Ministry of Health, namely the area of protection of people from noise. To begin with, it is necessary to state why it is necessary to protect itself against noisy activities and operations. Noise reduces the body's general resistance to load, interferes with normal regulatory processes, affects psyche and work performance and worsens communication between people. As one of many factors, noise may be involved in the long-term effect on hypertension, i.e. high blood pressure, may damage heart function including increased risk of heart attack, reduced immunity of the body, may cause chronic fatigue and insomnia. Research has shown that the incidence of civilization diseases depends directly on and increases with increasing noisy. Since Amendments B6 and B7 restrict the possibility of protection against noise, we must fundamentally disagree with them. In the case of proposal B6, this is a change which makes the sanitary limits of noise legally binding to date only recommending values, which cannot be accepted from the point of view of public health protection. This is a non-purpose exit from environmental management and noise reduction policy, at a time when the European Commission presented further deepening in emissions reduction, including noise, by up to 50 per cent. In the case of Amendment B7, this is an amendment which increases the Institute's reasonably achievable noise rates from the instrument of a unique use, exclusively in the exemption procedure under Section 31 of the Public Health Act, to a single and decisive institute for the assessment of noise rates. By this change, the proposal essentially leaves noise to operators, which noise levels in the outdoor area are considered reasonably achievable and which they propose and justify themselves. At the same time, no exact instrument for assessing the noise level thus proposed is left to state authorities. The amendment thus leads to a complete resignation to protect public health in the area of noise emissions. The proposed change is completely in contrast to the long-term anti-noise policy of the European Union and the World Health Organization, and therefore the Czech Republic. A positive opinion has been adopted on the proposal by the Guarantee Committee. However, we must fundamentally reject this proposal for the Health Department. Finally, honourable Members, let me summarize that the two amendments are not amendments to the Act on the Protection of Public Health, which is intended to contribute to improving the area of construction law, but are an assigned change that goes beyond the recodification of building law, which is a real threat to public health. And that is why I dare ask you not to support these proposals. Thank you for your attention and your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u5	Thank you. According to my notes, Vice-President Luzar should now have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u6	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about the draft building law and the regulations relating thereto. There was a certain anabolic of this law coming out of the mouth of my previous speakers. I would like to remind myself that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has pointed out from the beginning that there have been certain irreversible steps in the administration itself... or non-refundable... steps worth analysing. And they started by shutting down the district committees, the district management system, introducing regions of different sizes, and today we are witnessing the bad effect on the state. This has proved to be true of the electoral law, for example, in the functioning of the authorities as such, which have taken over part of the state administration and are now in some conflict or conflict of interest, whether we call it right, in relation to their own assessment and development of their own cadaster. This is proving to be quite a big problem, because, of course, in the perception of citizens, the mayor is the one who decides on the territory. This is ingenious, and that is how citizens feel, even though the law is very clear, the government is supposed to be independent, independent. This also applies to the construction process. Here we can put our hands on each other's hearts, each one of us who has ever dealt with any construction, and make it quite clear whether it really is everywhere. I firmly believe that the influence of self-government on construction in many locations is enormous, whether the law permits it means a party to the proceedings, but also often by bending the law and the mayor, or the secretary, looking for ways to comply. Whether it's right or wrong, you should evaluate it yourself. If you have had success and managed to achieve something in this style within the framework of the construction process, then, of course, you consider it a success, but I consider it a harmful interference of self-government in the performance of the state administration, at least in the level of everyone's access as equals to the building procedure. The second thing that needs to be said here is the concept. At the beginning, it was said that there is a proposal that should maintain the existing structure and go the way of modernization, go the way of ease, but in the existing rails of the division of self-government associated with the state administration. The second concept, which was prepared by the Ministry at the very beginning, was the separation of state administration from self-government, and we supported this as a KSČM because we saw a certain attempt to set up a mirror for district authorities that had been abolished and to seek a way of communication between the state administration and its outputs to subject criticisms of self-government and control of self-government. Over time in the preparation of the law it turned out that the interests were diverse, and there were adjustments that made the original government proposal, as they say, a cake kittens and a dog, when all the interests were put together there and the law as such really lacked meaning in my opinion. So the original government proposal returned with a comprehensive amendment that was prepared, including through the Ministry, across politics, and is presented as a supporting one that we are discussing today. Unfortunately, there has also been a third proposal, which I consider to be a kind of pressure for large builders, developers and others, as well as for large cities, I must stress, which has tried to return to this proposal a liberal approach to construction, to the territory and to seek as quickly and as best a way as possible for these business purposes. Some things could be discussed, discussed, but it turned out that most of them were rather directed towards facilitating their work at the expense of the existing control and security mechanisms we have, and that is why we rejected this proposal. This also led to a dispute that I presented at the press conference that some of the proposals that went through the Economic Committee were completely contrary to the original agreements and procedures and were looking for ways to get those developers back there. [[10.10 hours]] I am glad that, in the end, we have managed to find some consensus, get back to the negotiating table, and deal reasonably with the proposals. What was said here, however, as a fundamental contradiction or fundamental consideration by the advocates of the current model and the efforts to digitize is precisely the emphasis on digitalisation, which should solve the problems of the existing building procedure. It was said that the existing experts in the office, when they go to the big office, I stress that the big word is more of a euphemism, but it's more of a limited space, perhaps even in the same office, except in another system of paying structure and assigning the worker that it doesn't solve it, because it could already solve it. But I'm asking, why couldn't it have been solved at that office when the expert is there now, and why are there problems? These analyses also exist and were presented at the beginning of those debates, when it became clear that this is in the current state of distribution as we have today's construction proceedings, unable to restore and unable to improve the situation. Because the analysis that was clearly here showed that there was a problem. In appeals proceedings, inability to decide in time, non-communication between individual existing experts. And the efforts that are being put forward in this new proposal are going to make these people one way, if I overdo it, in quotes in the same room, so that they can share and work with each other. That's some kind of digitalisation in the sense of the word of the word among the clerks. If there was talk of digitalization in general, we see the problems today and daily that digitalization brings. Today we witnessed digitization in the census and the problems of deployment companies. I'm not gonna repeat any more laps of digitalization here, but that happens. I'm a tech, I understand, and I don't want to use it as a weapon against digitalization, but digitalization isn't self-saving. Digitization in the submission of, for example, tax returns, it is an up-to-date topic - and I do not consider entrepreneurs to be some informationally stupid people, on the contrary, they are people who work with computers today and daily, in the vast majority, yet look, colleagues and colleagues, at statistics, as they have been using for many years a functioning electronic system of tax returns and how many they are still serving on paper, often at the last minute, not using electronic means of filing via data boxes, not using electronic signature and other things, verification. It's not about digitization, it's just about the nature of people going to office and their activities. There's gonna be a huge group of people who are gonna want to do the construction proceedings all the time on paper, in person. They're gonna want to be participants in every step and they're not gonna want digitalization in taking the folder, using the floppy disk and the flash drive, bringing it somewhere to the office, and it's gonna happen on its own. This is really about the nature of people, and I will stress here that tax returns are clear proof that digitization is not self-savvy and it brings enormous risks mainly to people's perception. In conclusion, allow me to make one comment. We're on the verge of a possibility of going the other way than before. It was pointed out here: Do you want to separate the state administration from the government? Yes. Yes, we Members of the KSČM see a way to move the Czech government towards better results. If this succeeds in the construction process, yes, other government activities that are shared within self-government and should also move as independent state activities, because I am convinced that the state, in this exercise of its power, applying laws to citizens, should be independent, controllable, in the system of independence of appeal and other matters, as the law commands and addresses the law. We do not agree with the introduction of elements of lay self-government that affect the system of state administration to enter the elements of lay self-government every four years when changing the leadership of town halls, when changing the leadership of politically occupied bodies, but we want the government to be free of these influences that come with each election, but to function exactly as it is written in the law, and how the government should function. That is, a citizen can do anything that the law doesn't forbid him, but an official can only do what the law allows him to do. This is how the state administration of the Czech Republic should work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u7	Thank you. I have one more priority right here, Minister Brabec is enrolled in the debate. Then it is Mr Adamec's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to be as brief as I can. I apologize once again to my colleague Adamc that he has been here for a long time, he is always excited and then he gets over it again. And I hope it's... [[Laughter.]] But you know how it is, the delayed pleasure is finally the best. In short, I want to use this option, of course I will express myself to the new construction law from the point of view of environmental protection. I believe that we agree with a large majority of you that the aim of the new building law was mainly to simplify and accelerate the approval of buildings, where we really belong to unflattering places in world comparison, but not necessarily to reduce the level of conservation of nature and landscape or to protect other environmental components. The Ministry of the Environment, I think I can say without fail that there have been dozens from the very beginning, and Mrs Dostálová will confirm to me that perhaps hundreds of negotiations already, or almost certainly hundreds of negotiations within the legislative process, long and complex, have also been trying to propose solutions that would minimise the risks of reducing current environmental standards, and at the same time the building process has been accelerated. We have even actively proposed the concept of a so-called single environmental permit. In this discussion, we have also rejected a number of unreasonable proposals in our view for the integration of environmental licensing processes, so-called at any cost, which would bring no acceleration, but would fundamentally bring about a weakening of environmental protection. That is what I think has been done, and a number of the original amendments or proposals that have been there are no longer there today. I dare say that this is also due to our discussions and objections to the proposals. The government's proposal for both building and amendment law was a bearable compromise and constitutes a bearable compromise which guaranteed the preservation of the existing level of environmental protection. However, logically, there have been other parliamentary proposals as part of the second reading, which I cannot agree with. I would like to make a fundamental point here, and we have already done this several times, on one amendment, and this is the proposal of Mr Bauer's M1 colleague. We were just getting things straight with Mr. Bauer a little while ago. He said he didn't have the intention to come out of the amendment, but he's still there. And I would like to ask you to point out that this amendment, if it were to be adopted again, is Amendment M1, so there would be a major restriction on the competence of national parks administrations and protected landscape areas. [[10.20 hours]] By common agreement between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Regional Development, a guarantee was inserted into the Government's draft law that the construction authorities can replace the nature conservation authorities in the built-up territories of national parks and CHKO only if the conditions of protection of these territories are agreed in the form of so-called regulatory plans. Until those regulatory plans have been established, the National Park Administration and, of course, the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency will be bound to decide on issues of nature and landscape conservation. This is very important, colleagues, because it is obvious, and I will not surprise you that there are a number of locations in national parks and protected landscape areas where landowners and individual groups, sometimes rather of course very powerful, influential groups, financial groups, try repeatedly to break free from the conditions set by nature conservation authorities. It is probably most noticeable in Šumava or in the Giant Mountains and it is logical because the land in the wider surroundings is worth a lot of money. There are hundreds of those interested in new projects, and they are literally waiting for the regime to unwind and be able to build there. I think we may agree with a large majority of you that it is not our intention to have something from national parks that I would have said was called a carnival, but I do not want to reduce it in any way. In many cases, I believe that municipalities would not want to allow this to happen, but simply weaken the role of national park administrations and we consider CHKO very dangerous and the genie would be very difficult to return to the bottle after that. There were a number of attempts to make it happen. As a red thread, it was dragging through the negotiations, going back to the game, some groups, we were back again... or we were trying to suppress the proposals, and eventually the proposal re-emerged. So whatever the translator's intention may have been, let's say, God-loving, in any case, I certainly consider the proposal to be very dangerous in its consequences, and I really ask you not to vote for it. This means, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Environment, that in the end we managed to push through a number of changes, which, in our view - and as the rapporteur also said - mean shortening the process, shortening the preparation of the buildings, but do not necessarily mean a major reduction in environmental protection. This also concerns, for example, the entry of various associations and other groups into the proceedings, because the biggest problem of our building law is the chaining of these processes. This means that it is important that public participation be maintained, but it is also important that it does not mean that public participation will always be there in the next step over and over again in the same thing, which unfortunately happened and then, together with the decision-making of the courts, it became a whole common intention, which was approved for 15 years and then only one to two years built up. Compare this with Germany, compare it with Austria, compare it with other countries that are bound by exactly the same European legislation as, for example, the assessment of projects, the environment of the EIA. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Adamec is now in the debate, Mr Čižinský will prepare. And it is certain that the Member has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, Minister, Mr President, fellow Members, so I finally got my turn. I don't know if it's a pleasure for me, but so be it, we can see it that way. I'm gonna say one thing here. I remember when the last elections were held and when we were on TV when we were at the debates, there was a question about what we were going to do with the construction law. I said at the time it was better to tear the old one apart, throw it away, and just start over from scratch. We all wanted a new building bill. We all see this as a problem in the Czech Republic, the slowness of the steps, some steps citizens do not understand at all that they have to go through, it is difficult and I can tell you that I would not dare to do it myself, apply for a building permit, that I have to hire people who understand it. That is true, but I must also say that when I go back to history - and it was already happening here - the first recodification of building law, I think, was in 2006 after accession to the European Union, and since then every change has been worse. We conservatives say it all the time that every change is always a change to worse, here it has proved to be hard to be realistic. I must say that the last House here also voted for another version of the construction law, and I must say that I did not like the process, because I came here with a draft building law that had about 180 amendments at the time of the final vote, so that is a really big risk, and it turned out that the period of construction proceedings was still extended. And so we are now prior to the approval of the construction law, which changes the system and also changes the content. What was falling here, and I also registered with my colleague Luzar, whom I would like to tell you, through you, that it is not entirely fair to blame the self-government for affecting something or the like, because he has to prove it if he mentions such an influence here, and I don't remember for my entire 23-year career as mayor that I would ever try to influence the head of the building office. It just can't be done. He's the building office, whether you want it or not, but he's in the city office. They're actually the same officials, the same employees, but they do state administration. What we as mayors can do is keep an eye on the deadlines so that these things run as they should, and we certainly can't interfere with the construction process. There's already been a lot of bias going on here. I think it's misunderstood the justice system, the public administration system. Unfortunately, we had to deal with this in a number of cases, not quite happy. I understand that this is a problem, but the solution is actually to pull the construction authorities away from the public administration and turn them into an independent state office, I do not consider it entirely happy and appropriate, and I will now tell you the reasons here. It's not like I'm gonna cry like the mayor here about losing some of the building officials, not at all. It's different. He started this place with a colleague named Luzar. Public administration reform was being prepared in 1999. Marek Benda may have been here, otherwise we can't remember it here, and then there were actually 14 regions, variously large, and the district authorities disappeared. If it was a happy move - I don't think so. I was criticizing it at the time that it was not quite good like this, and even felt it on my own, because I was with 1. 1. 2000 also became the head of the district office without having any contract with the state. And that's when we discussed whether the public administration would have a merged model or a separate model. He won the merged model for customary reasons and then also for economic reasons. It must be said that municipalities do not receive 100 per cent of the money to perform the administration. Whoever thinks so is next to the fir. The municipalities receive only a contribution to the administration's performance, and that is something else. It's even more complicated than that. Somewhere it's a contribution, somebody's a purpose grant. Let's say it's even more complicated than that, so somewhere the state pays 100 percent isn't paying. But the economic model certainly played a significant role then, which is why public administration was created the way it was created. And now the state comes up with the fact that it's actually wrong, after 20 years, more than 20 years, that because of the bad content of the construction law, it's also necessary to change the system. And that's where I see the problem, because-- and it also needs to be said here that the system has already been hacked once, and it's under the Nečasův administration, I have a feeling that part of the social work that went to the employment offices has been separated. If anybody thinks it was a good thing and it's a good thing, take a closer look at it. I don't think so. It's true the inadaptables don't come to us for the basics anymore, they don't go in there with the cabs, they don't throw our butts in front of the office, that's true. He's going to another office. But such human aspects have disappeared, because these people need to work specifically with specific people, and sometimes they need things that are not in the system, and the state only acts legally. That clerk can't do anything else. That's why I don't consider it a happy move. [[10.30 hours]] The idea now that the state administration will actually be partially separated is such a signal to me that we should be wondering if this system of public administration settings is okay or not, whether we should happen to take a strong step and change the public administration system. I'd understand. And let's talk about it because it needs to be discussed properly, all the pluses, the minuses, and telling us what it will bring us and also looking abroad. They have a separate model in Poland, Slovakia, and I must say that the experience is also not quite pink, as someone imagines. They're not, it's just that. It's just every system has its plus and its minus. I was surprised by one thing about this bill. It is a law that belongs to the Ministry of Regional Development, and actually we dealt with it mainly economically in the Economic Committee. It's already warned me something's not right here. I understand there's an effort to boost investment, speed up construction, that's what we all want, but at any cost, I'd be careful. Moreover, I have found that the pressure comes from the business sphere of different groups, I will not name which, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Confederation of Industry, and I think the representatives of these organizations are wrong, and I have a feeling that we have run into them a little bit of a pitchfork, to put it to the public. I have to say, when the secretary here said 75 percent of the people in the questionnaire wanted to speed up the construction process, I thought it would take a bigger number. That's what we all want. And then there was the second round of graphs, I saw at the press conference yesterday that they wanted it under the administration. Well, I wonder what they'll say in two years. And if you look at other graphs who trust who, you'll find that the authorities believe significantly more citizens than the government. That goes a little against each other. So I don't think the system is happy, plus when I criticized a lot of amendments to the previous version, it was similar here. It's doing as you go along. I get it. We just have this system of lawmaking. I think that such a bill should have been discussed in a much longer period of time, which has not happened, and all the comments should have been incorporated in the basic version, which should have a minimum of amendments. This doesn't give me any great confidence in what's going on here. And I wanted to say one thing. I know you're gonna approve today, I'm gonna take it, we're in parliament, we're in parliament, we're in parliament, we're in parliament, we're in parliament, we're in parliament, we're in parliament, on the other hand, we're gonna be in another government's time, and we're gonna know how well it's been handled or not, and whether the dismantling of the public administration system that started was worth it. I'm really saying that as mayor, I don't really care if the construction office is under state administration, because he's still running the government, but I don't care that the system is being disassembled by this kind of salami method. I would like the system to either be confirmed or, as my colleague Leo Luzar said, it is wrong that the authorities are changing every four years and that it is necessary for the performance of the state administration to be severely separated from the performance of the public administration. So that's why I have a big problem with this bill. I repeat, we all wanted a new building law, we wanted to speed up the proceedings, we wanted digitalization, although anyone thinks what they want, we wanted people not to run, but to run through the papers or emails more in today's case, but on the other hand, this system simply did not arouse confidence for me, given how the law was prepared and how we got to the third reading. And let me make one more comment before I go back to the amendment, which Minister Brabec has already commented on. When you put your hands together here, as you succeeded, I know another case from the House where even standing was applauded, and that was the amendment to the Public Procurement Act. At that time in the holy anti-corruption fight, something seemed absolutely holy, anti-corruption, everyone applauded standing up, and how did it turn out? The House at the first hearing had to change this law in order to be functional at all. Personally, I would not wish this to happen with this bill, as it did with the bill on public procurement. I do not want this because I consider building law an important part of human life. It should be such that it is helpful to people, should be quick and should not mean a bureaucratic increase. And one more thing I remembered. You know, there's also talk of the economy here. I've already indicated here that the municipalities only receive part of the remuneration for the administration's performance, this will be the whole thing, and now I'm going to tell the model what it's going to look like after the split. No mayor wants double-type officials in office, even with tenure! Not at all! How will these people get along? Now, take the common areas, the common interests, which in this case will be different, now how will it be with the service cars, what about the other things? I think it's going to cost something, and I'd quite like to get to the figure of how much this change has cost us. And I don't mean it badly, just as a reality, it's gonna be more expensive. Let's say that it doesn't, but it will be, because the public authorities only did it for part of the cost of the state. And I'm saying again, I don't like it, I don't like the disassembly. Let's be honest, let's say we want another model of public administration, then I'll take it, and if we don't want it, let's not do this salami method. And I don't think the other things that might have anything to do with it are worth commenting on. I say again, I started positive at the beginning, I'm going to end positive. I mean, we all wanted a new building bill. We may differ in our views on what we're about to approve here in a moment, but I want to be optimistic and believe that these catastrophic scenarios are not going to come true as some of them may have fallen. And yet so optimistic: You know, good intentions aren't enough. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. I thank you for your attention and wish you a happy hand in voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u11	Thank you. We will continue our merged debate and now Mr Čižinský, Mr Kolovratník, is on the table. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u12	Thanks for the word. I will keep my opinion on the bill, or on the presentation that is actually announced that it will be supported, that is, those are the amendments by the MPs, which brings the law back to a state that, according to my deep conviction, is in a completely opposite direction than we should go, in a different direction than the one that would really like to have a long-term law of construction. The point is that when we assessed why the construction proceedings in Prague are being extended and how the Central Bohemia Region is doing, we found that people at the offices are active, inactive, good, bad; designers, builders are just as good, bad, active, inactive. And we actually found that in Central Bohemia a little more construction is allowed just because there are more construction offices. That means the authorities, when there's a larger number of construction offices, there's a larger number of those that work better, and there's a larger number of those that work well too, but because it's scattered, they actually allow more buildings in total numbers, and it's because the builders are going to build where the construction office works well. [[10.40 hours]] That means if we're saying that everything is to blame for the system that's about to change, and it's about to change revolutionarily, then we're wrong. Let me give you an example. We have two projects in our city area. One project, which is twice as high - or designed, proposed twice as high as the surrounding construction. The builder simply suggested double the number of floors. This, of course, could not be allowed, the neighbors resisted, the urban part resisted. The builder then came up with the idea that he would have half the floors, but the only way he wanted to do it was by knocking down every second floor, that the floor would be seven meters high, so that the house would stay as tall, twice as tall as the others, and that it would meet the floors. Of course it was a trick. The trick didn't work, the neighbors fought back. This project has been under discussion for 10 years and has not been authorised. Then there was a second project that fulfilled everything, and within a year, the builder had a building permit. And now, if the length of the construction process is being assessed, these projects are normally judged next to each other, even though it's quite obvious where was the error in dragging out the first project that actually fixed and cheated. I am very afraid that this revolution will turn out wrong in court. The Prague construction regulations, which changed when they changed, we could see how the change of conditions affects projects. My previous speakers pointed very well to the contradiction between the constitution of protected interests, environmental protection, conservation of monuments and the law, as proposed. Indeed, there is a situation that ministers here for YES and CSSD define themselves against amendments which we know are actually going to pass. Minister Zaorálek, Minister Arenberger, Minister Brabec, spoke out against these laws. So I am very worried that the path to centralization is the way in the opposite direction, because the worst thing that can happen to our country is the wrong, dysfunctional, central building office, and precisely decentralizing and leaving confidence in the local knowledge of officials would be the right way, but it is the completely opposite path than the one that this House unfortunately wants to take today. It's wrong and it's wrong for the builders, it's wrong for the courts. And I am very afraid that we will achieve the opposite, which means that the builders and neighbors will meet in the courts, they will meet in the courts of the municipality, the mayors and the builders, because centralization, as has been said many times, is simply the wrong way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u13	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník is now in office, Mr Kupka will be prepared. Yeah, sorry, Mr. Adamec has a point of fact, he applied a long time ago. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would still like to respond to the Minister's contribution to the environment. I thank him for explaining this amendment to my colleague Bauer, because what I read in the media, and the comments from Deputyman Mana scared me. I don't think any of us want to destroy the environment here. We don't want to, the environment is a valuable nine. Moreover, today the company is so advanced, and all young people want to go to the countryside after their jobs, enjoy what we have here in the Czech Republic. It wasn't meant to be like that. It was meant as a circle of simplification. I think it's worth considering all the time. I understand the Minister's concerns, and I understand that because some economic pressures are really very strong. This also proves the current state of affairs that, despite the fact that today security guards have the opportunity to interfere, constructions are created in many places, which personally do not give me any pleasure in the fact that they were created there. I just thank you for explaining... I really wanted to hear the Minister's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u15	Okay, thank you. Let's keep going, then. Now, Mr Kolovratník, Mr Kupka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Now in the general debate, I will have my speeches relatively brief, but divided into several logical units. The first whole - reaction to the previous speakers. I will take it from the back and turn to Mr Čižinský, with whom we sometimes agree well on the issues of cycling, promoting mobility in cities and the like. But, my colleague, through the President's meeting, I must now, with all due respect, rely on myself. And I have to rely not only on my own name, but on the team and people and professionals, the experts on that form of law, on the institutional change that you are concerned about - and of course I respect your opinion - so who worked on it. Don't be angry with me, colleague, I don't mean to be disrespectful, rude to you, but you have some life experience, you've had some practice. But what I want to say. What we are talking about, what is the content of this comprehensive amendment 1008/7, was the case with Dr Stanislav Kadečka. You must know his name. Unfortunately, he's already dead. He was one of the authors of these ideas when this whole thing was created, sometime since 2017, 2018. Dr. Kadečka, who you do not know, Google, unfortunately he is already dead, was really one of the most respected Czech lawyers, experts of the trials, administrative order. He was one of the co-creators of a number of laws. He gave us the green light, he actually invented it, he was one of the spiritual fathers of the whole change. The RIA was made by Professor Mejstřík. Now that I'm back for six months, I'm in close contact with Dr. Vojtěch Vomáčka almost today and every day. This is a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. So such authorities when they put their thumbs up and say, "Yes, this is the right reasonable path, so don't be mad at me, questioning this, it's just that it's not only unfair to them, but it's a very bad argument from my point of view. And maybe one more opinion, I'll say external, non-political, I'll lean on it. Even the reconstruction of the state in its legislative assessments or opinions here has made it clear to the standard that if we want to achieve the objective we are talking about with the Minister, that is, professionalism, quality, consistency of procedures, consistency of methodology, we can only do so reliably if it is centralized and managed within one institution. On the contrary, decentralization is at risk of high error rates, disunity procedures, other interpretations and so on and so on. That's just what we need to say here. That's what I get from the ass bridge to Ivan Adamec's statement when he said, "It's sudden, it's sticky in a hurry." Again, my colleague, I will remind you - and now I'm doing a little substitute for Klára Dostálová, she would have said it better than I would - the preparations actually started at the beginning of this parliamentary term, sometime in 2017, they started 2018. I, as rapporteur, have been here for six months, I have already said so, and at the beginning of my speech today, I thanked you, colleagues from the opposition, for the deadlines. 5. 11. we started first reading, today we are actually half a year away, we are in May, so even here in the House the time was very long. But I have to go back again. Dr. Kadečka, Professor Mejstřík, Dr. Vojtěch Vomáčka, these are icons for me. These are experts who are indisputable. And I believe that even fellow Members of the opposition can't question such strong calibers - they shouldn't. Ivan Bartoš, in an introductory beautiful rhetorical performance, spoke of digitalization, great ambitions, but we are in agreement there. These are all the elements we have in our proposal. And I'm going to repeat myself here, but I'm going to repeat it very briefly. Please, colleagues, look at this standard with optics not of the 20th century, and maybe 19th and Austria-Hungary. Look at him with the 21st century optics. We're talking about a standard, a process that, from the point of view... And I'll give you an example of an ordinary citizen. It's gonna mean one thing: he's gonna sit on the computer for a while. They don't have to deal with whether the construction office or the territorial workplace, as we propose, in one or another village, they don't have to deal with where they're going, where they run another stamp of another office and other institutions. No, he will have his Builder's Portal, he will sit with the computer, following the overall change in construction processes, which also concerns large state investors, he will be able to upload drawings, project documentation, request and thus de facto his work is finished in digital form. [[10.50 hours]] I could talk a long time about other amendments, where we say that perhaps the institutions concerned need to point out in advance if they have a disagreeable opinion. It's another service for the applicant, and so on and so forth. But I won't hold it up. In short, the main claim, the slogan 1 - 1 - 1, one application, one permit, one stamp, will be followed by this, so here Ivan Bartoš and I are in agreement. That was a reaction to my colleagues. The second part of the speech - I want to briefly mention my two amendments here in the debate, which I consider to be very fundamental and have already been discussed today. The first is zoning within a separate scope. It's a document 8008, in the procedure it will be marked O7 through O34. I filed this because I am the representative of both the county city, the rank representative, and the Pardubice Region, and it makes sense to me. From the beginning of the law we say - if we institutionalize and combine the issue of a building permit, we see it as a technical, technical process, but let's give the municipalities, strengthen their authority, in territorial planning the council will decide what they want, when they want it, so that they can change it quickly. That is why I tabled this amendment, and I know that it is not clear that it is sometimes - perhaps someone will say often - to a certain extent of concern. That's what shows the whole standard. In short, there's no match for everyone or resistance for everyone. It's always multicolored. Even with this proposal, the big cities are in favour, on the contrary, there is a need to worry about the small ones, that they will not have the money and finance for it. I understand that, but here - if you are not yet determined - I beg the support of this proposal, because he really puts in his hands the separate powers of the councils to decide on her territorial plans. And I think it's a step for the self-government that we're giving them back. Second, also fundamental to me, Amendment 768 under the letters O1 to O, transparency. I prepared this together with my colleagues from the State Reconstruction. Here we propose two things. First, if the file or the case, the one action, the request, is moved somewhere to another official, so that it can be seen publicly, so that it can be electronically controlled. In the second step, we aim to ensure that the workers of the entire building administration, the institution, have their expertise precisely dedicated to what matters are decided on. I am following up on this proposal for a minor legislative regulation - a colleague, a legislative worker, I have already pointed out - so I will ask if the House agrees to include this. It is in the press 1008, legislatively technical, precisely in this amendment, where I was wrong, and I will now read it precisely for the screen record. In the second part of my amendment, I amend § 31 para. 2, where I say that the SAO, the Supreme Building Office and specialized, is divided internally into a department. Here I had a text error or a text blackout. The correct wording of this amendment - it does not fundamentally change the content or meaning of the whole proposal - is that it is divided internally into sections, unions and departments. It's kind of a textual refinement. So it's gonna be one of my leg-techs up to 1008. Then I report to the press 1009 legislative technical regulation, which is at the request of the Ministry of Agriculture and addresses the issue of water law offices. We voted on the Economic Committee by one vote on the Committee's amendment in points A1 to A39, but the Ministry of Agriculture asks the group here, the voting step, to divide it into two parts, to vote separately as follows: first by one vote A23, 24, 27, 28, 31, 32, 34, 37 and 38, and then by the second vote the rest of the block, i.e. A1 to 22 and then points A25, 26, 29, 30, 33, 35 and 36. So it's gonna be a change of procedure. I'm sorry, I actually said it wrong, it's not gonna be a legislative technical regulation, but it's gonna be a change in the press's 1009 procedure. I will, of course, read that and explain when I walk you as rapporteur by that step of 1009. And one last thing. I must say this, also to my colleague Čižinský, why I did so when the Minister asked for my help with the newsletter. It was my personal experience. I am at my holiday home in Hradec Králové, decided to build a cesspool. It's a closed plastic tank, a pit, some four meters cubic. I filed a request for a territorial decision, a simple request I filed last winter, sometime early in 2020. This winter, after a year, I got this simple permit. Coincidentally, the cesspool building started yesterday. That's my personal experience, colleague. This simple thing took me over a year. I think that, too, is why we're going to make this big change, where I, as a small builder, will know that we can handle this within one month at the latest. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to Martin Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u17	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Kupek, I shall first remind myself that it is necessary to address my fellow Members through me. I did not wish to interrupt Mr Kolovratník. Mr Čižinský, Mr. Chižinský, is now making a point of fact. We'll discuss the changes to the procedure later. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u18	Thank you. I would like to respond here to my colleague Kolovratník, through the President, of course. My colleague, don't take this any hard way, but I'm not questioning the names that have been raised here, but I'm still taking the liberty of judging your performance. You said noisy names, and then you actually fixed mistakes here. You dropped two words over there. The Department of Agriculture over there wants it different. If it were all perfectly prepared, then your performance would have to look different, because if - don't take it wrong - just if the sound names were involved, among other things, in your amendments, if those people had seen it, there would have been a slight mistake, but there would have been two important words, so it wouldn't have happened. By the way, I'd really like to know why it took a year for that cesspool, and if you don't know that, well, the change would be that the person who has it to process, that if he doesn't make the deadline, he'd get some kind of penalty in that office. But there is no reason for a central moloch to be made here, and it is necessary to say, and that is the great danger that the interpretation will eventually be done by the courts, and the people who want to defend something will certainly go to the courts now that the proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Kupka, who is next enrolled in the merged general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to speak before you with a whole range of arguments and a speech aimed at preventing the serious problems that the Czech Republic will face if a version of the construction law were finally approved with the amendment by Mr Kolovratník. I will put forward a whole series of fundamental arguments and statements by those who, at this point in time, mostly are covering up the construction proceedings. At the same time, because the material is complicated, I will allow you - even in this performance to be more easily oriented - to submit that it will have a total of six comprehensive parts. In the first part, I would like to draw attention to the key essential element, that is, who actually opposes the form of the construction law at the moment and what its importance is in terms of the success of the construction proceedings and the whole process not only now, but also in the coming years. [[11.00 hours]] An estimated more than 97 percent of all works in the construction process, 97 percent of all works in the construction process, rests on the shoulders of current municipal and municipal authorities and regional authorities - 97 percent! I particularly stress this issue, because at the moment when these municipal, regional and municipal authorities speak out the mouths of the various mayors' associations and captains of the strong "no" to the proposal, we must put a stop to it - the voice of 97 percent of those who have something to do with the construction law today and daily. I would therefore like to quote here the specific resolution of the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions. These are key actors without which the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic cannot move. At the moment when this proposal was made to create a mega-building office, it would not be able to move in many respects anyway, because perfect institutional integration does not occur and there is only a problem that the Czech Republic will find difficult to cope with in the years to come. However, I want to make it clear at the very beginning that what we are aiming at is not the destruction of the building process, unlike the government and the version of my colleague Kolovratník, but really move towards speeding up the building process. Yes, that is our key interest, on which everyone in the Chamber of Deputies agrees, the public knows it, everyone who moves the construction industry, and all developers know it. So the basic thesis, so that no one can question it, where we are going, is the same vector, the attempt to speed up, simplify the construction process, and move the Czech Republic between the successful competition of other states in the field of construction proceedings. Now, how to do this. You know, we've been able to discuss a whole series of changes on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum. I am thinking, in particular, of the digitalisation that is being worked on, when specific working groups address both architecture and funding itself, and they are also putting together the assignment for the necessary selection procedures so that digitalisation can work. I will return to digitalisation, but I just wanted to make it clear at the outset that interest is common, and now it is about how to achieve this goal so that it does not ultimately mean that instead of real aid, there will be a real breakdown and a halt to the issue of building procedures. And that is the real risk of the Government's proposal and of Mr Kolovratník's proposal, supported by the Minister. Let us therefore go to the vote of those who at the moment represent the absolute majority of the burden of all works in the field of construction proceedings: "The Bureau of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic in its resolution of 17 February rejects the current process of negotiating the construction law, when major changes are proposed, without the financial, personnel and material implications of such proposals being known, which may have negative consequences for the success of the recodification of building law. Second, the Bureau of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic requests that: The Chamber of Deputies has halted the process of negotiating the bill of construction. The design of the construction law must be prepared and subsequently adopted on the basis of an agreement of a wide range of stakeholders and stakeholders, and with the participation of experts on the issue of building law and the functioning of public administration, so that it results in an effective process of building management and planning. Furthermore, the Bureau of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic rejects institutional changes, which contain a comprehensive amendment to the Economic Committee, because they are not supported by an analysis of expected impacts in the field of financial, personnel and factual matters and have not been discussed in the framework of the standard legislative process with the entities concerned. An experiment that has not been tested is not supported by a proper analysis and is not known for its personnel, financial and material effects. Furthermore, the Bureau of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic does not agree with the transfer of the zoning agenda to the separate scope of the regions and municipalities unless it is guaranteed to finance this agenda for small municipalities and cities that will take up land planning documentation through another buyer. The amendment tabled by Mr . Martin Kolovratník and . Adam Kalous and Petr Dolínek do not provide such a guarantee under number 8008; therefore, it cannot be agreed with. Finally, the Union of Towns and Municipalities notes that non-compliance with the Parties' agreement to transfer territorial planning to a separate area with clear funding.' These are specific points with which the Union of Towns and Municipalities has signed up. In his press release, President Lukl said: "We reject this chaotic and inconspicuous way of preparing the law, which will fundamentally affect the construction activity throughout the Republic. Such a law must be discussed in a standard legislative process and a consensus must be found not only across the political spectrum, but also among other actors, from builders to territorially independent units. The government itself," continues his statement, "the government itself suddenly withdraws from the original acceptable proposal and supports Mr Kolovratník's comprehensive amendment. In it, years of well-functioning mixed model of public administration are broken and cannot be agreed with. Insufficient institutional change may cause destruction and, in the extreme case, a complete cessation of the construction proceedings.' So much the voice of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which represents a very important part of the municipalities in the Czech Republic, from large cities to central and smaller towns, to small municipalities. The voice of the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic is equally critical. Here, too, I would like to quote this because it is a relatively solid base, but it brings a whole range of clear arguments and tries to draw attention to the key shortcomings of the present law. Thus, the Association of Local Authorities of the Czech Republic notes that the construction process needs to be simplified and accelerated, and it also says that we all know this for a long time. They do not agree, however, that the condition of the amendment is the abolition of a significant part of the existing building offices, or even the transfer of the entire building agenda to the state, as proposed by Mr Kolovratník's comprehensive amendment, which is also part of the entire resolution of the Economic Committee. The reasons for which the Association of Local Authorities does not agree with the Government's draft building law or the comprehensive amendment of Mr Kolovratník are based on the long-term practice of cities and municipalities and the deep knowledge of the operation of both the construction offices and the agenda itself. In the event of disagreement by municipalities and cities, this is certainly not a power struggle, a stamp or obstructive opposition based on antipathy, but a statement of legitimate concerns, which stems from the experience of representatives of the municipalities and the knowledge of the material and legislative process, which, at least in the event of the submission of Mr Kolovratník's comprehensive amendment, has been significantly violated. The main arguments of the Association of Local Authorities, which speak in favour of both the Government proposal and the comprehensive amendment, are as follows: "First, the abolition of several hundred building offices and their transfer to larger cities will lead to a significant restriction on the availability of building offices, especially for residents of smaller settlements. Secondly, the extension of the distance between the construction office and the construction worker will also constitute a complication for officials participating in so-called local investigations in the territorial and construction proceedings. Some parts of the procedure simply cannot be digitized. [[11.10 hours]] Thirdly, the distance of the authorities from the citizen and officials from the actual object of the construction will represent the creation of more black buildings. Construction workers will not be interested in obtaining a permit and will not reach the remote points of the official's eye. Of course, there will be an unfortunate situation in the communities in which these mischiefs will be done without punishment. Next, eight years ago, the so-called Drábkův Reform was adopted, which carried out social workers from small municipalities and transferred social workers from municipal and municipal authorities dedicated to the social welfare agenda. Already at the beginning of the reform of municipal authorities, the full number of employees did not go to the employment offices, as originally assumed, and in the following years followed by another wave of departures from the labour offices, which are still in the bases. This shift of social workers from smaller municipalities, so-called welfare workers, to the employment offices we had the opportunity to feel during the pandemic, when mayors and mayors were obliged to take care of the elderly population in the municipalities. Social workers from the social unions at the ORP did not leave the authorities during the pandemic, i.e. the territory was not covered. It must be added that the social agenda has not stabilized since the so-called Drabko reform even after eight years, and we are equally concerned about the change in the structure of the construction offices. For another, we agree with the argument of representativeness. That is why we do not defend the existence of so-called single-headed construction offices. However, there are limits and the idea of representation of a sick employee of the office in České Budějovice by a colleague from Ostrava is more than illusionary. Within the framework of both construction and territorial management, local conditions need to be known and involved in so-called local investigations, which is really very difficult to solve remotely. In order for our arguments not to be merely an impression and because of insufficient analysis of the government bill and zero analysis as well as a comprehensive proposal, we were forced to find our own data. Our surveys show that only 40 percent of existing construction officials want to go to the state administration, which is less than half. In the end, the lack of officials means a longer period of time to process an application for authorisation and also an overload of staffing, which leads to a more frequent fluctuation of often trained employees, the dissatisfaction of builders, officials and more expenditure. After all, we experience a similar situation in the case of workers at the employment offices. Surveys have also shown that, for example, movements of archives are not resolved and, above all, the way they are distributed, which may seem to be a detailed matter, until a calculation of the transfer and the new construction of one single archive has been made. 70 per cent of municipalities would like to retain existing employees of construction offices and, if possible, they will be happy to offer them a different position within the structure of the municipal or municipal authority. The large unknown is the financial intensity of the expected changes, which is not sufficiently mapped. Therefore, it can certainly not be assumed that the new system and its change would be a savings. Chaos, neglected detailed preparation and unsolved relationships in every area of human activity represent unnecessary acts and excessive financial expenditures that await us in the event of the adoption of the new construction law. The association of local authorities of the Czech Republic is trying to prevent a fatal collapse, which will occur in the area of construction after the adoption of the amendment of the construction law, but unfortunately so far without success. Despite our expert argument, we have not yet succeeded in convincing the Ministry or the petitioner of the comprehensive amendment of Mr Martin Kolovratník that the proposed law will not only lead to a deterioration of the availability for construction workers from smaller municipalities, but also a complication for civil servants and will fatally damage the construction process throughout the Czech Republic. Notwithstanding the fact that, in the case of Mr Kolovratník's proposal, this is not only a complex amendment but, in fact, a reform which has not been properly discussed with both ministries and comment points, is not supported by the conclusions of the expert public's deliberations, financial complexity calculations and impact analysis." So many partial quotes, I won't read the whole document from the reaction of the Association of Local Authorities. Another important player, which cannot be ignored if you want to responsibly implement territorial development and engage in responsible reform of construction law, is the Czech Rural Recovery Society: "In this situation, we are again proposing that the amendment of the law be done by gradual steps and that existing instruments be used to accelerate and improve decisions of the building authorities, such as the electronicisation of the state administration, compliance with existing legal deadlines, personal responsibility of officials for decisions and many others. We see the path of abolishing the smallest building offices as a dangerous dead end limiting cooperation between experts and politicians at the lowest level, which sets a precedent for other negative activities of the centre, for example for the interference of the registers. There is a risk that the planning and construction process will be substantially delayed to the citizen and self-government, that is, the people who live and work in the territory. In any case, the abolition of the construction offices is furthering the system of self-government and services to citizens, thereby significantly weakening the fundamental principle of subsidiarity for the municipalities. It also weakens the countryside by leaving educated experts from rural communities and small centres to large cities. We fundamentally reject the emergence of a super-construction office. This would be an extremely expensive solution, which will certainly not solve the problems that burden the existing construction proceedings, but will cause senseless and unnecessary transfers of workers. In its consequences, it will only lead to centralisation and bureaucratisation of the state administration, which, for these reasons alone, will not be able to provide services to citizens and investors quickly and efficiently. On the other hand, we strongly support digitalisation and steps that will reduce and simplify procedures as well as savings. However, those are the proposals of the rapporteur of the Ing Economic Committee. Martin Kolovratník, supported by the Minister for Regional Development and Member of . Klára Dostálová, not concentrating." So many short quotations from the opinion of the Association for Rural Reconstruction of the Czech Republic. We are getting to the resolution of the Council of the Association of the Regions of the Czech Republic, i.e. the voice of the Governors. On 7 April 2021, the Association Council of the Regions of the Czech Republic rejects the Government's proposal for the Construction Act. He also agrees with the comprehensive amendment to the Government's draft building bill, which is presented by Members Ivan Bartoš, Marek Výborný, Věra Kovářová, Dominik Feri and Martin Kupka. Furthermore, it does not agree with the gradual and unsystematic exclusion of individual administrative bodies and administrative agendas from a consistent and proven combined model of public administration performance in the territory by means of partial legislative proposals in individual areas of public administration. So many voices of key players. Again, I stress that their view is based on a very majority practice, the majority burden of individual actions in the construction process. These are those who are currently engaged in the construction process and know both the problems of dragging individual processes, but in many cases they were able to provide working construction offices. Before I go into specific points and into a specific argument for the important principles on which we agree, I will allow myself to stop at the most critical institutional reform, what it actually means and what impact could be. Is it possible to smash all these opinions and these opinions, throw them in the trash and say, "We don't care?" Well, it's been resounding here. This certainly cannot be done, among other things not, that no reasonable state can do without actors in the territory. On the contrary, the centralization of power - it has shown history not only in the Czech Republic - has very negative speeches. It ends with a rise in bureaucracy, an increase in bureaucratic processes, an encapsulation of the authorities, and a journey precisely to the detriment of citizens and those who want to build. A repeated experience, described in many textbooks, described everywhere where you just want to start critically. And instead of listening to these basic theories and opinions proven by history and practice, we are presented here with a version of the centralization of the building office - full speed ahead. [[11.20 hours]] What are the other specific risks? Some have already appeared in the quoted opinions. That office should hold more than 13,000 officials in order for it to work. 13,000 civil servants under the Civil Service Act! Whenever we had a debate here about the current form of the Civil Service Act, as well as from the government, the Prime Minister's mouth was quite overwhelming criticism that it was simply a dysfunctional law. If something's out of order, of course, it's common sense, let's force it and send 13,000 other officials in there right now, so let's make it work. Well, obviously, it just can't work well. Madam Secretary promises to run the whole thing because we'll pay better for the officials, the experts we need. However, there is a clear view against this that only 40 percent of those currently working at the construction offices would want to cross and there is no leverage to enable the state to do so. A fundamental difference compared to the state in 2000, when the regions were formed, then the state could actually decide on the demitiation of officials and the demitiation of the offices of individual organizations, because until then they were simply in his power. Today, however, both officials, property, offices, cars are in the hands of municipalities and municipalities and regions, and it is not possible to treat them from the position of state by approving something and it will happen immediately. It just won't. And the problems that people in practice are talking about are clear. One of the serious problems of existing practice is the lack of officials. When you talk to people who are engaged in training officials, for example, at the Department of the Interior in Benešov - I highly recommend this to read the situation - they draw attention to it and see from their point of view the greatest lack in the lack of sufficient equipment, sufficient numbers of those who could engage in this expert practice - neither in the area of spatial planning, nor in the area of construction offices. So it is clearly named, supported by the arguments that one of the serious problems is the lack of officials. But then it doesn't make any sense to solve this serious problem by creating a new structure. You're just gonna drill another huge hole in the dive line, because you're not gonna have people really to deal with these administrative proceedings. You're not getting them into that new mega-construction office. Notaben, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the mayors and the authorities themselves sound clearly - I have heard it from some of them: we don't really mind the state taking it, but we have the quality ones that we have long-term cooperation with and we don't have enough of them, so we want to keep them - a wonderful idea, we now have no one to work on trade unions that are engaged in investment activity, we will finally have people for them, plus people experienced, knowledgeable building law, properly prepared to control suppliers and prepare contracts. And of course, these people, and I dare to say, are another very important aspect, they feel that they belong to the city and the city office simply because they live there, and simply because they are able to see in this regard, as well as citizens, to their closer place than to the remote authority, to a distant bureaucratic apparatus. Another very important aspect of this step, in addition to not crossing people and convincing them, is that at present a large part of the authorities do not have enough space of their own, very much saves with them, and the possibility of their offices being released will be very welcome. How will the state then address the lack of offices in which it will have to carry out its activities? Of course, after the covid, more of the activities can be focused on home offices and certainly the state administration will also take this direction, I wish. However, there will still be a need to secure premises where there may be negotiations, where people will be able to meet. I could mention other aspects - providing a computer network, separating itself from the office's network, because of course it will be another institution and it cannot be expected that it will easily be resolved in one building. Ivan Adamec also made it clear how mayors would allow the fact that they would meet often at once in their offices in collisions, it would be attributed to them, but they would have absolutely no power to intervene only by alerting the secretary to the citizens' complaints. There's nothing wrong with that. This does not in any way mean the intervention of politicians, the negative one that we are talking about in the performance of the public administration. The fact that the mayor is often addressed by people in the first place and turns to him to say, "Please, it doesn't work there, we've been waiting too long for a building permit here. And the journey that is needed is natural for the mayor to turn to the secretary and properly redeem him in order to move, for example, a lax or inoperative office. But it's within reach, it's just solvable. And then, of course, another important aspect is how much the entire procedure for the creation of a new building office will cost. And I'm sorry here, but I have to make it clear that the Ministry's figures are misleading in this regard - I mean the Ministry of Regional Development. To say it directly, they're lying, out of reality. At the moment, as I was able to name it here, you will see to the individual places of oerpéček in the Czech Republic, so it is clear that we are talking about the order of hundreds of millions of crowns. And that is not the opinion of the opposition, which would be a priori maybe hostile. This is the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, which dealt honestly with the analysis and which named the cost of introducing such an office in the order of billions of crowns, in addition in the time of the povoid and with unclear results. These are all very serious risks to the law. We warn against them because we believe that we need to speed up the construction process and do so in a way that is safe for the Czech Republic, for example because we are waiting for the possibility of using European Union funds under the recovery fund as well as other upcoming operational programmes. The approval of this law means that you just shoot yourself in the leg, but not just some nine, but a straight machine gun, because what really happens in the case of the approval of the law is a threat to the activity. I will mention one more important thing to make it clear to those who have had the opportunity to enter into this discussion in a very short way. What is going on means not only that there will be a construction office, where all those who now issue building permits at the construction offices focus. In fact, those who express their views on individual projects and projects as officials of the authorities concerned will also go there, i.e. people from the Department of Environment, people from the Department of Transport, people from the Department of Culture and Monument Care, not only in cities but also on the outskirts. They all have to meet there. But the current practice and important practice, when we talk about representativeness, is that the current teams function as units on the borders and cities and there is representation of people, where self-governing performance and the performance of state administration meet, and they are able to represent in many other and incoherent actions and administrative procedures simply because they are involved in one thing. What happens when you step into the current mixed model? You're gonna pull these guys from the Department of Environment of a small county office because you need them for that construction office, you're gonna pull two, and there's gonna be one left on that county. And at that point, there will be another problem that this reform generates without discussion, because suddenly there will be a problem in the performance of administrative activities in another area at the regional authority or, possibly, at the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. [[11.30 hours]] These are serious risks. It is possible to respond to them, but it is not possible to wave hands over them and say: In the holy fight for the recodification of building law does not care, we push it all over, we are the best, we can do it best. [[♪ We're gonna ♪]] Once again, here are the opinions of those on which the dominant charge of administrative proceedings lies in the area of construction law. And they say clearly: it is a serious problem, it is necessary to look at it differently and either, as has already been said today, really complete reform of the public administration and involve it as one of the mosaic stones, or simply seek another way. I will come to the conclusion of this when I will try again to describe to you in the fifth part of the speech the amendment which is going another way. It reduces risks, precedes them and brings unification of processes at existing offices, efficiency of what can be achieved without unnecessary costs and without unnecessary risks. That's the fifth part, so far we're at the end of the first one, so I don't go over it. At this point, I would like to conclude the first part, which dealt with both the response of key partners, their opinions, so I wanted to introduce another important thing, and these are the precisely described risks with which the new mega-building office will be created. I mentioned it. Only for recapitulation: unwanted centralization, new bureaucratic apparatus, number of directives, huge acquisition costs for the construction office in this form at all, and a number of other problems. But let us now focus on what is, on the contrary, a link on which there is agreement, and I will try to describe it in detail again, so that it is clear that even if the government coalition hears the rational call of a number of opponents of the opposition amendment, so what could this bring, when there is agreement, and what could ultimately serve the development of building activity in the Czech Republic. It sounded like digitization. That's a match. Just maybe it didn't say what digitalization was all about. The Minister has repeatedly mentioned that it is an important building block of recodification, but, and I agree with that too, it is not a self-savory matter. In other words, at a time when only digitalisation would occur, we will not yet achieve an improvement in the construction process to the extent that we would have imagined. But let's name where the digitalization itself brings change and positive steps. Item 1 - Unification of methodology. What the builders complain about is that when they come to the office in Třebíč and they need to build there, and then they come to the office in Jihlava or even to keep me from Třebíč, they come to the construction office in Aš, so there may even be another form and other practice. Digitization brings together the methodology in the territory of the whole Republic in the fact that at that time the builders will apply to the system and submit their application in the form of a Construction Man's Portal, unified throughout the Republic. An important contribution to the harmonisation of methodology, more important than any directive, we know this very well. The guidelines are written, set up in files, and then stored in closets. If they go into life and if they're being watched, such as the directive on the treatment of pregnant women, which must be at every municipal office that no one has read and every decent person doesn't have to read because he acts like one, this could actually be a similar case. But digitalisation in this direction has a clear and positive effect in that once we unite this form, it will simply be a used tool to implement the construction process, so that it means that you simply fill out just one identical application, the same box, and what's more, because we are in the regime of the law on citizens' right to digital services, you don't have to fill out a whole series of boxes anymore because the state knows them and is able to complement them, of course. Significant savings, simplification, and transparency of the process. Your project will store, or yourself, documentation in the project documentation repository. A vital step in order to finally remove the transmission of these complex heavy files from one office to another at the moment something gets complicated. At that point, not only does the construction office itself have access to the project documentation, but also the authorities concerned, of course. Important help, they can watch it anytime. And now the most important change to understand what digitalisation can bring in this area and what impact it can have on respect for individual deadlines. The builder's portal is an instrument that will at that moment be seen by individual officials, allowing the entire course of the proceedings to be followed from the very beginning and, of course, the fact that time will run out for the official, the stopwatch, how long he spends on it, how many days he spends on it. And what's important is that his colleagues in other offices will see it too. The current practice simply doesn't allow this control. But take what shift in terms of even reasonable competition and guarding your own practice means that you will see a shift on one screen in that practice, a shift in management at the Department of Environment, the Department of Transport and elsewhere. Even the officials will see it among themselves, and they can also bring the incentive back to the builder at that point, and they may not wait for a 30 - day period. This is one of the fundamental changes that digitalization brings in itself, and it cannot be denied. I dare say that from the point of view of this shift, it is not just a directive that is imposed, but the reality, so the impact will be tangible, it will be significant and it will emerge immediately. So much for digitalization and real impact. Anyone who monitors the effect of action and whether the costs incurred correspond to the effect will certainly record, assess and also positively assess that this itself is already significantly changing and improving the situation at acceptable costs, when, moreover, very likely - or almost certainly - it will be possible to obtain European Union funding for digitalisation. This can make a significant percentage of the required change for improvement, a significant percentage. And this doesn't mean any of the other risks that we've been talking about, this is clearly a positive thing. Another important aspect on which there is also a consensus is the ban on ping-pong. That's what our approaches are all about. It is a practice that is undesirable, and only to document exactly what is going on, for those who may not have been able to meet so much with the statements of individual building offices. The municipal authority, or the construction office at the level of the municipality, decides the construction worker or neighbor to appeal and the matter goes to discuss the regional office. The Regional Authority deals with the case on the basis of the fact that there are extensive documentation files, discusses, considers individual aspects and, as a result, gives a three-page opinion on when the error occurred and what should be changed. It'll actually do a lot of work. Only - to the detriment of the Czech Republic - at the end of the decision there is no definitive report, definitive authorisation, or rejection, but generally there is a sentence: On the basis of the discussion of the objection, the authorisation is revoked and the matter is returned to the discussion of the first-instance office. This is a fundamental problem for all of us to move things forward faster. The change on which there is agreement, the ban on ping-pong, is decided by the competent regional authority. And when he's already taken the time to evaluate the individual aspects, it's even that the good regional authorities are going to have the building authority very detailed in order to deal with it, and they're going to tell him how to do it. All that's left is for him to just make the decision for him. And this new resemblance is consistent with both the opposition principle and what the government comes up with is fine. We agree with that. [[11.40 hours]] Another important thing that solves the most pressing problems, and there is also consensus, is a specialized construction office for line constructions and for important buildings of the type of power plant in Dukovany and so on. This is the key to solving the most frequently tilted problems even at the level of the Czech Republic, that we simply lack an authority that would be able to concentrate really specialized officials who will know the problems of line construction, because they will not solve it every once in a while, but will have the case repeatedly, in a year's time several such cases. In medical practice, it's called case report, but in the case of building procedures it's supposed to have the same weight. There's just something completely different when you operate one case a year, and something else is when you can operate 20 of these cases. At that point, you know more precisely the pitfalls and are able to propose a procedure, even within your decision, which is functional and which is able to prevent a number of problems. So I say clearly, there is a consensus on this point too, so we are able to proceed. I am getting - and that will please you now, by the special construction office and by this coincidence I have exhausted the third part of my performance - and I am getting to the fourth. In the fourth part, I would like to pause over the real words on strengthening self-government roles, on the case of a territorial study. I will mention, before and before the main part of the debate on territorial studies, some general remarks on steps that strengthen the positions of self-government. I clearly underline - and there is also agreement here - that it is good that planning contracts should be well anchored in the new construction law. It is a powerful tool for self-government to negotiate with developers on the conditions behind which they will be built, as well as on the conditions in which those developers' clients will live in the future. And this is one of the essential things for organic development of the territory, so that there are not serious problems such as lack of social infrastructure, children's playgrounds, sports grounds, and then, of course, schools, health centres, staff, etc. Therefore, planning contracts are another of the major positive shifts that we report to, and they mean a clear strengthening of self-government. The territorial study is an area that we and our amendment are pushing very hard to make sure that it has a clear and firm anchoring and that, if a territorial study is made, it is really not only discussed by the local authority in the council, but that it is approved. That's a necessary condition. I'll explain why. The territorial study often specifies what is important in that territory, so that the form of cities and municipalities develops according to the right urban rules and, as another amendment says, nice cities. Territorial studies prepare those whose task is to give some face to the territory, to think about what the shape of the buildings will look like, how they will be in the area of spread green areas, how the traffic will work, what the street line will look like, which is one of the important specifics in building new areas, so that when you get there, you feel that things have their order and that they are being done by someone who has thought about it and who has understood things. That's what territorial studies are for. They are often initiated by municipalities to be able to refine them for public consultation, as a new development area will need to look like 2 000, or better for the idea of 5 000 square meters, when a new neighborhood will be created, so that there are functional houses, apartments and to combine it with other functions of use, commercial spaces and the like, as well as the social background. This is very important because, both in the current law and in the new legislation, it is said that territorial studies are taken into account and based on administrative decisions when assessing the relevant building permits. It should therefore happen that the final proposal for this solution will not be delayed from the territorial study, but it respects it, monitors exactly what will happen in the territorial study. And it's important, because I know from my own practice that in territorial studies we enter important neural points of the territory, whether it's the places for walking, so that the places are well accessible, it's one of the basic good conditions of any city or community building, so that there's adequate space for the movement of vehicles and it has a modern cultivated form, so that the street line is clearly defined there, so that even the shape of buildings, their height, their layout, is consistent with the ideas of self-government and correspondence with the territory. A really relevant view of what a specific neighborhood should look like can be inserted into the zoning study. But the important thing is that this is really necessary to do in accordance with the council's opinion. The current practice, when the territorial study was anchored in a crappy way, brought a number of serious precedents and problems where, in some places without knowledge, without informing self-government, a private investor - nothing against private investors in general - had commissioned such a territorial study, could register it at the regional authority without the self-government being able to comment on it. That principle is completely wrong, and the amendment we are coming up with is very important - that each territorial study should be subject to the approval of the local council. Without this, it threatens to re-create unconvenient shapes, non-organic territories, or directly defective areas in that there may not be a place to go for a walk, that there may not be room for separated waste, that there will not be well arranged communication and that there simply will not be a future life. So, in this case, I appeal to you, if you say that we are going to create a stronger, more space for self-government, to live up to your words and to support an amendment that clearly states that a territorial study must be subject to the approval of the council. I will draw attention to one further link, which would be very serious, because among the amendments is also the amendment by Mr Kalous, who says that if a territorial plan is abolished in a given place, the territorial study will be taken into account as a binding form, as a binding standard, on the basis of which the final decision is issued. What happens if the territorial study is registered contrary to the opinion of the self-government? It's a distortion like crazy. This means that, in fact, it will be able to oppose the will of self-government on the basis of a territorial study with which the self-government may have opposed. So please pay attention to this context and the continuity when you approve. And so if we want to accept, and I am not against, the option that, if the zoning plan is cancelled at the site, so that the territorial study serves as a basis for decision-making, it is important that, at the same time, the territorial study must not only be discussed, as the government proposal says, but must be approved in the council. Otherwise, as I say, it would mean that when you say and talk and fight in your breasts about strengthening the role of self-government, you would do the exact opposite. So please, let's record this, and let's try to accommodate that, because without that, there will be more serious problems. [[11.50 hours]] I hereby conclude the fourth part and allow myself to go to Part Five, which is important to describe what the opposition proposal actually means, which addresses the alternative to the creation of a mega-building office. I will draw attention to the advantages, the principle, and I will also draw attention to where this proposal is actually coming out more effectively than building a new mega-building office. This principle is based mainly on world practice in many countries, where the construction process takes a much shorter time, and we are also based on experience and practice in functional construction offices. So we are based on existing models from a specific practice that is functional. And there's something against that in the form of a mega-construction office that no one has checked, there's no credible analysis of how it would come into existence and work well. Against this, our proposal - I stress it again - respects the best and tested principles. We came from the practice of the Municipal Office - the City Council more precisely - in Pilsen, we came from experience from Karviná and from many other places where construction offices work and issue permits within legal periods. They did so by trying - they did not even need the special provisions of the law to do so, but they united the processes on the basis of the decision of the secretary of that office. They said to their officials: Look, you're involved in one thing, serving citizens, that's your main purpose in the job. Stop looking at your resortism, and if there is a need to put together a joint decision, a common solution, for example for a new housing building, then come and share it, come and speak, cooperate at the level of the current various unions. And it works, it works convincingly. Our proposal is based on this very principle. It says: You do not need, especially when you have digitization, to create a new bureaucratic structure, to build new construction offices here - perhaps not everywhere, but somewhere it will certainly be necessary, you do not need other complex guidelines. All you have to do is create a legislative space and extend what works elsewhere as an example of good practice to the whole republic. That is the principle of our amendment. And it says simply: At the moment when the builder comes, the application is made, the proceedings are under way, and already within the same whole, the network managers are contacted, the individual authorities, the so-called public authorities concerned, are also addressed. It continues to operate in its Department of Transport or in its Department of Environment, as well as in order to maintain its professional links. And the fact that it's important is not a debate. There are really good teams at functional offices that strengthen their expertise by training in their specific segments - environment, conservation and transport. This makes sense to preserve and makes sense in preparing the decision to bring them to the common table and cooperate with them. The moment the builder does this, he's gonna send out information to everyone who's concerned that they're gonna start checking on the project. At that point, she can start running, and she's supposed to start working together. And once it hits, and not necessarily within a period of 30 days, but even sooner, it encounters a conflict, a collision of public interests, there is going to be a step that comes back from good practice in many states of the world, and without which we simply can't deal with complex cases, and that is negotiation. A joint meeting where an investor, a designer and those who find themselves in a conflict of public interest in discussing the project can sit and sit at the table. I could mention a thousand cases. The usual and relatively well-known case is the clashes of landlords and firefighters, monumentists and hygiene. Specific example: You need to secure an escape staircase in a protected object for fire safety. The task as a thunderstorm to make it pass for those who follow the historical interest, the cultural value of the object, while at the same time fulfilling the requirement for actual fire safety. It can't be solved just by one ticking off a lack of interest, out of the question, and the other doing the same. This will kill construction activities in the Czech Republic. The only possible way is with the designers to find a solution. We have a specific instrument for this in the form of a coordinated action that occurs at the very moment when those interests find themselves in conflict, in conflict. And it's the only good solution, so that really the sightseeers along with the firemen are looking for a way to meet both demands. A solution? In a specific case, there was no passage from the sightseeing point of view of the steel staircase, but thanks to the invention of the designers it was possible to come up with a proposal for a wooden escape staircase, which the current standards allow after the conversions of 9/11, and managed to find a real solution. But it could not have been done if there were individual officials firmly locked in the trenches. So the important thing in this case is to really create space within the whole process to satisfy public interests and find the conditions under which this project could arise and work. The criticism was that the deadlines in this case were not as strict as in the case of a government proposal. I have to argue with that, because those deadlines are identical. Completely identical. And the moment they're crossed, the filing goes to the second-instance organ. In our case, these would be the existing regional authorities. It was said that it could overwhelm the relevant regional authorities, which would not be prepared for it. However, I note that the problems with extending deadlines, and we all know who is involved, occur more often than at the authorities themselves with the authorities concerned, where the collisions are being dealt with. In addition, we give space to the builder, so that at the time when the deadline may expire, he can decide on his own will that he wants to run under the administrative procedure at the first instance, because he needs to be able to see the end of the deadline and the solution. Also important help to make it work better. What are the clear advantages of a reform that changes things, accelerates things, but does not create a new bureaucratic structure? The answer is simple: You do not centralize, you do not create a new bureaucratic structure, which is also strictly hierarchised, where it is difficult to find and lean on a truly independent, secure, impartial appeal procedure. In the model of the megabuilding office of institutional unification it will then lie on the shoulders of one institution. One institution, though divided into different levels. But that is not how I imagine a fair appeal, and it will undoubtedly come to light - and I would like to draw attention to this - the possibility of new and serious disputes. We're gonna get rid of one, and the next one's gonna come. How will the builder feel when he comes up with real objections to the procedure of the first instance, and he will actually appeal to the boss of the person who decided? The current practice, when the builder refers to the second instance most often to the regional authority, means a truly independent institution that can bring a different perspective. This is an important principle of two-instance management and it is enshrined deep in the system of public administration of the Czech Republic. That is why it is important to maintain the current logic and unification of those forms. [[12.00 hours]] Let's go to another important aspect, I've already talked about it. Of course, our proposal in terms of input costs does not actually bring any additional necessary crown. Although it would be possible to minimize problems with lack of space, with lack of people, with computers, with cars and so on, it still necessarily means some extra cost of entry. But the most serious thing, apart from the fact that at that point, the Minister will probably have to get a money printer, he will also have to get a printer for the civil servants, as I mentioned it, because the creation of such a building office will cause a greater shortage of qualified people in the system, because those who are there at this point and are indispensable are not well replaceable. In many cases, if we look at the age structure of civil servants of the construction offices, we will find that we are actually close to the state of practitioners in the Czech Republic, because they are people experienced, in higher age categories and their replacement is complicated. And without making a change in the construction process and watching this important thing, we're making a really serious mistake. This is another important argument I consider why we should proceed no more fearfully, not necessarily more cautiously, but with an assessment of real risks and an assessment of what the situation in life looks like, what the practice of individual offices looks like and what to do about it. The advantage of our model is, as I mentioned, the preservation of professional teams. Of course, maintaining professional teams has a significant impact on the quality of building management and future complications. Each builder tells you that, in addition to the threat of extending time limits, he's even more terrified that he's gonna run into poor, incompetent decisions. Because when it happens, it has a serious impact on the potential, even significant financial impacts, because it can be really, for example, a wasted investment. These are the main arguments why we're trying to prevent those risks. This really means that there could be a collapse of the entire process, because when you limit, you cripple the system of issuing building permits, you thin out the current set of officials, so in the end you are not only at risk of performance and time itself, but also the quality of the final decisions. And that is an even greater threat to investors themselves. Another very important thing and a comment on the models. Unification of processes also means a consensual model or model that simply relies on people being able to talk about it. Without having fun, it still can't work, and we see it everywhere. Of course, the building process is necessarily conflicting because there are conflicts of interest. But it's more dangerous to bet that you're rolling them in the hierarchic structure. This precisely generates further follow-up problems and even provokes possible litigation. It is far more correct to try to resolve these conflicts, to resolve them by finding the conditions to solve them. And after all, a large number of current processes, including the EIA, are built. The purpose of the EIA is not to stop everything. The purpose of the EIA is to find solutions and find the conditions under which the project is to be created. That is precisely why our amendment to unify processes instead of institutional reform is aimed at making conditions easier for people and digitalisation easier, officials were able to look for the best possible solution with the investor and to go through it in a successful way. In conclusion, I am getting to the final part of the performance - here is the Minister rejoiced... but don't rejoice because I tried, and I think you can see that this was not the extension of the negotiations, that there were clear, factual arguments, absolutely strong views of the players in the territory. In conclusion, it's appropriate to recapitulate, to say what we're asking for, what we're asking for. And here I want to make it clear that our amendments are not really heading towards destruction, but they are heading towards speeding up and simplifying the construction process in a way that will not pose a risk of a serious slowdown in the issuance of building permits and, as a result of a threat to state investment, that we are able to prepare and enforce, I still hope, a model that would not paralyze the Czech Republic, use what is agreed upon, and I mentioned those particular principles, but did not expose us to dangerous experiments. I have also clearly shown that we want to strengthen the role of self-government in the protection of the interests of municipalities and cities in territorial studies, planning contracts, in that it will be possible to achieve functional administrative procedures, where municipalities and cities are, of course, important investors. Banning ping-pong in building proceedings, another important principle. Compliance with the deadlines, as I mentioned, as well as with the Government version and Mr Kolovratník's amendment. What is important - I mentioned it in the previous block - the settlement of collisions in joint negotiations. Not rolling interests, but looking for a way out. The creation of a specialized construction office for line and large buildings as another point of agreement. Digitisation of the entire process of building proceedings, as we agreed here in the Chamber of Deputies, as was the Ministry's significant contribution and how colleagues across the political spectrum put it together during the meetings of the Special Working Group. Another important thing, the preservation of building offices and in smaller places close to people. This isn't a small thing. My view of the digitization of the state administration, of the digitalisation of public administration must not be directed against those and must not restrict those who need the necessary physical contact with officials who need advice and for whom digital form, for example, will never be a cup of their tea. And this must include the view of the building bill. It is therefore undesirable for significant restrictions to be imposed on small construction offices. And I am glad in this case, as it has been said, that even the local government associations do not cling and do not insist on single-headed construction offices. Our solution is based on the rules set by the Ministry of Regional Development, and I think it has set them right, it has identified three criteria - the criterion of the size of the administrative, that is to say the physical availability of the place, the number of individual operations and the number of employees of the office, said, in my view, correctly, reasonably and generously: There is no need to meet all three conditions, just when one is fulfilled. An important principle, we stand behind it and promote it in our proposal for a solution. It is necessary for the digitisation of the public administration to preserve the human element, and above all, to always count on the door to be opened for a direct visit to the authorities, for a direct meeting with an official face-to-face for a possible consultation, for a clue, for methodological guidance, for a process that is often complicated. This human element must not be lost, and our version, which preserves much of the authorities, remembers much more than the centralized building office, where the design doesn't specify where the branches will be as a result. Nowhere is it specifically anchored in the law itself. [[12.10 hours]] What is another important principle - the enforcement of planning contracts. That is what I was talking about, but there is also agreement. And setting clear rules for those territorial studies. In conclusion, these are all the things we go to, for which we create conditions together, and we've already done a lot of work for it across the House. No one here can blame the opposition for just objecting and not being able to come up with concrete proposals. On the contrary, I dare say that, in the case of digitalisation, it really came from the opposition ranks in large part. But I will try to mention and stress again what we are trying to defend in the proposal and what we consider important. We want to prevent unnecessary waste of money for the creation of a new mega-construction office. That's relevant. We are achieving changes in our proposal without unnecessary input costs, it is simply more effective, and we focus on solving the most serious reasons of problems in the construction process, as I have described - in line constructions, in the fact that individual officials are not able to see each other, that they are not also followed in fulfilling deadlines. We're dealing with this, and we're saying that creating a new bureaucratic structure in the end is counterproductive and endangering the performance of construction activities. What we are accusing this proposal of is the liquidation of the current public administration. Experts who have long been monitoring public administration performances from the level of cities, municipalities and regions in the Czech Republic warn about this. The expert group at the level of the Council of the Association of Regions - I had the opportunity to participate in its negotiations - drew attention to the very serious effects of such an intervention in the current mixed model of public administration. I drew attention to a matter that the Minister hates to hear, but unfortunately, in practice, that means it. After all, this is why colleague Kolovratník comes forward with a proposal for transparent interventions or for transparent intervention in the proceedings, but the creation of such a mega-building office, a hierarchical form of that office with a clear impact of decision-making by executives on subordinates simply threatens the real risk of rolling public interests, especially in a situation where people of different professions and the task is to represent the very interest of conservation of nature and landscape. I will mention one important thing in this context, and please, if you look back in the history of the public administration of the Czech Republic, what will usually trigger an inorganic intervention in the settlement of public interests? It always triggers counter-reactions, counter-reactions on the side of central organs. At that point, the ministries will understand that they must stand up for their interests much more cordially, that they must defend the conquered bases, and there is a real war on the adoption of new legal standards. In fact, in the form of centralization of the building office, you are starting a match of all ministries for as strict, strongest component laws as possible, which will go into greater detail to defend the influence of a new mega-building office, which would want to decide according to its own. Again, if we want to deal well with public administration and governance, war is the worst way to proceed. On the contrary, the right solution is consensus and search for common options and negotiations. Another important point we are defending is the crippling of construction activities for several years due to unnecessary authority. I'm not going to elaborate any more, I've repeatedly commented on it, and I mentioned it. Finally, the last point is personnel instability. That's what we were talking about, too. I'm not gonna elaborate on it any more. Please, these are factual clear arguments, and they do not just say what not to do, they also say what is good to do, and they bring a real option for better construction proceedings in the Czech Republic. Please try to evaluate what was said here. Listen carefully to what they say, and I repeat it again as at the beginning, those on whose shoulders at the moment lie the absolutely dominant burden of all administrative proceedings in the area of building law. They tell us that they fear the emergence of a mega-construction office, and they bring arguments that I have tried to pronounce, supplement and name the most serious risks here. Thank you very much for your attention. I ask that, in the final vote, at least a question mark of these arguments appear in your mind and you evaluate the steps based on this argument and on clear indicators and warning signals, such as that only 40 percent of officials would like to go to the new building office. Thank you once again for your attention and I look forward to another substantive debate and, above all, a sensible vote to conclude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u21	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Next in the debate will be Mr Adam Kalous. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, after Mr Kupka's obstructive speech, I only want to make a legislative technical adjustment, and that is, to Amendment 7997, it is mobile homes. This means, given the MMR's correct observation, I would like to add this amendment and the words 'a product fulfilling the function of construction'. '" [[mobile homes]] Given that in my amendment this label is both in the title and the justification, the objective is clear, but the truth is that this explanation is missing in the legislative text and may raise questions. This means, in Annex 1, point 2 (b) is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the following point 3 is added: "3. a product fulfilling the function of the construction, including a base structure, up to 55 square metres of built-up area and up to 4 metres of height on the land to be determined by a decision to authorise the project, a zoning plan with elements of a regulatory plan or a control plan for the use as a recreational area situated at a distance of at least 2 metres from the boundaries of the land and the area of a part of the land capable of soaking rainwater after its location shall be at least 50 per cent of the total area of the land." [[mobile homes]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u23	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Polanský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, dear government, I would like to ask you to support my amendment under the number of House document 8003. Its content is the material that we discussed here quite recently, namely the legalization of the obligation to keep a building journal in electronic form for certain public contracts. Before I get to the subject, I would like to react briefly to the performance by Martin Kolovratník, who was talking about Mr Vomáček. I would like to modify his statement, or I have been asked to bring his statement to the right level. Mr. Vomáčka didn't judge at the Supreme Administrative Court, he worked there as advisor to the documentation and analysts department, if I remember correctly. Well, it's just to the edge. [[12.20 hours]] As you may know, the House's electronic building journal approved the last amendment to Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport and other infrastructure, and it has been effective since this year, although it does not work exactly as we would have imagined, but I will still get to that. However, the recoded version of the construction law has not yet reached the provision, which I dare correct with this step. The principle of adaptation is, and as I have already said, the obligation of the builder to keep the building diary electronically when the object of the construction is an over-limit public contract. I will try to outline the meaning and meaning of this adaptation briefly. In the Czech Republic, contracts in the field of construction are awarded annually from public budgets in a total volume of around 15 percent of all public expenditure. In 2018, it was about 220 billion crowns. I'm just going to point out that in that number, I couldn't figure out the number for over-the-counter contracts, either over-the-counter contracts or over-the-counter contracts. The actual construction is governed by the rules anchored primarily in Law No. 183/2006 Coll., on zoning and construction regulations, construction law, i.e. the law to be replaced by today's press. This law defines the obligation to keep a building log for buildings subject to a building permit or notification in Section 157. The form and method of keeping the diary is then further amended in Annex 16 to Decree No. 499/2006 Sb., on documentation of buildings. This decree also allows the building log to be kept electronically, which is logical, since in the private sphere this form of journal management is very popular. The construction diary itself is, according to the definition, a written record of the course of the construction, in which information about persons working at the construction site, the climatic conditions of the works carried out, supplies of materials and so on. The building log is to be accessible at the construction site to all authorised persons, records to be made on an ongoing basis every day, and no vacancy may be omitted. The building diary thus represents a key document during the construction: materials used, compliance with technological procedures, but also a record of inspection days, but also after completion of the construction, when it becomes the main and often the only proof in case of complaints or judicial disputes. That is why the quality of the entries in the building journal, their credibility, legibility, level of detail and quantity are extremely important especially for the investor, in this case for the Czech state or other public institutions of self-government. By the way, let's see how the building diary is defined in this bill. Its definition can be found in § 166 v para. 1. I quote: "When carrying out or removing construction, equipment or landscaping, which requires permission under this law, a building diary must be kept in the Czech language. Data relating to the implementation or removal of the construction, equipment or landscaping shall be recorded in the building journal on a regular basis. In carrying out or removing simple structures and with the exception of simple structures referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to (c) Annex 2 to this Act shall be sufficient to keep a simple record of the construction." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 Furthermore, the amendment defines that the entries in the building log or the simple record of the construction are entitled to carry out the builder, construction manager, person performing the construction surveillance, person carrying out the inspection of the construction work and person responsible for carrying out the selected survey activities. The records shall also be authorised to be carried out by persons carrying out technical supervision by a builder or by a designer, where such supervision is carried out, by the safety and health coordinator at work when operating at the site, and by other persons who may exercise control under other legislation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 further defines that, upon completion or removal of the construction, the contractor shall transmit the original of the construction log or simple construction record to the contractor, in the case of their electronic form, the contractor shall transmit it in machine-readable format or store it and ensure access to it by the builder and his designated persons for a period of 10 years from the legal authority of the approval decision, or the completion of the construction, unless the approval decision is required. To this definition, I can only add that I consider it relatively little ambitious and in a way inadequate. For example, there are provisions missing on the fact that operating records on access to data are also part of an electronic building journal, i.e. in the world of IT well-known so-called logos. Logs are an important security element of every information system that performs some operations over data, i.e. in addition to creating editing and erasing also for reading, searching, browsing between items and so on. If the audit log is well and closely maintained and accompanied by any structured information on the nature of the change, it is possible to reconstruct the historical form of the data from these logs. This issue is further addressed by a fellow Member, Ivan Bartoš, in his amendment to the terms and conditions of keeping the electronic building journal, so I will not look into them in more detail. And I don't have to stress how useful this information can be in the case of a building diary that rarely serves as evidence in the event of a lawsuit. In the case of such serious situations as the collapse of the bridge in Studénka on the railway line in 2008, the logos could answer not only the question of when who wrote what in the diary, but also which person read this entry. This quality is not available to the classic paper building diary. We can imagine, ladies and gentlemen, how important this fact can increase the explanatory capacity of the building journal, which is its role as evidence or witness to the reconstruction of an event. The accident itself in Studénka can serve as an entirely ultimate example of why an electronic building diary is needed. I'm briefly recapitulating. Case of a crashed bridge in Studénka, 2008, with eight deaths. The missing assembly log and the incomplete construction log do not allow forensic experts to determine what work was done immediately before the bridge collapse. It is not even clear what work was done and when. We can't find the cause of the bridge's fall, the charges don't testify. The lawsuit's been going on for over ten years. The latest information is from October last year and speaks in the sense that half of the defendants were acquitted of the charges, the rest was again in court. The mounting diary was missing completely, the building diary kept incompletely, and therefore no proof. Yes, you may also have thought of this: this practice is illegal, but unfortunately it is common. In practice, however, there are other situations where the building diary is kept contrary to the principles set out in the law and the decree. The most common cases of non-compliance include overdating and reversing records, keeping multiple alternative building journals in one building, leaving blanks for later entries, deliberate physical damage to the diary, destroying the journal with a natural disaster, whether by fire, flooding or in the event of a crash, unreadable records and unidentified signatures in the diary, which, for example, is a big problem in handing over the building, denying access to the building journal to authorized persons. We all know the situation. I'm just gonna take one sentence to divorce her. It is general and legal practice that during the construction period the contractor manages the construction diary, which after completion of the construction will hand it over to the investor - I have already mentioned this. And the logic of the matter implies the natural effort of the contractor to control the entries in the diary, or to prevent entries that are not beneficial for the contractor, such as the results of surveying survey work and the like, and in these cases often argue the physical inaccessibility of the diary. It's kind of classic: it's locked in an unimocelle, we don't have keys, come on Wednesdays and so on. The authorised persons are thus not allowed to enter the building journal in violation of the law. All these shortcomings often occur in practice are contrary to the interest of the investor, this is in our case the Czech Republic. And while these facts are contrary to the current legal order, there is no system tool for their enforcement or control. [[12.30 hours]] That is why we have proposed to enact the practice of using the electronic form of the diary, which clearly prevents each individual of these offences. But that's not the only advantage of electronic form of building journal. The electronic building diary can easily be connected to other infrastructure services, such as meteostanice directly on the construction site. Each registration can thus be automatically provided with information on climate conditions, which will automatically improve, for example, the control of compliance with technological procedures, such as mixing building mixtures only within a certified temperature range and the like. Any failure to comply with the procedures will be easily recognizable, which will improve the investor's position, for example, in a complaint. These or similar features on the Czech market are offered by e-built daily providers, by the way, already today. Another great advantage of the electronic building journal is the possibility of connecting a picture attachment. Photographs will significantly improve the explanatory ability of the writing itself, narrow the space for setting false in the text or forwarding the writings. Each photograph may, for example, contain a time stamp, even GPS coordinates. A well-run photodocumentation may be equally important or more important for the documentation of the construction work than the text itself. The remote access for writing, but especially for reading, is probably the most significant advantage of the electronic diary compared to the physical one. The possibility of remote reading the building journal will allow centralization of the control function as part of the building supervision in a specialised body, in real time. The relevant organisation, such as the Road and Motorway Directorate or the Supreme Ministry, can create a specialised department of construction experts, who will monitor the course of selected buildings remotely on a daily basis, check entries and picture attachment. In the event of confusion or error, they may immediately instruct the entry in the building journal to be completed or a new photodocumentation has been made. The uniform methodology applied to this central workplace will significantly increase the explanatory value of all building journals kept under this scheme and thus strengthen the role of investor in the case of claims or litigation. In practice, there are also documented situations where there are signatures or parafas appearing in the report on the transfer of the building, which are not reported in any subsequent complaint or litigation. It means that the building was supposedly handed over, but it is not possible to trace the responsible person who took it over. In the case of electronic authentication, the identity of each recorder is obvious. Another advantage is the link to workflow. The electronic building diary passes through the life cycle from the establishment of uniform entries through control days to the transfer of the building to the housewarming. Automatic workflow can guard this procedure, allowing no step to be missed, which is happening again in practice. There are cases where the construction journal lacks information about the date of the transfer of the construction, which effectively excludes later claims. Unchangeable previous records - another big topic. The electronic form of the building journal is essentially addressed by the largest nesvar of the physical carrier, namely the possibility of reverse change of history. It doesn't mean that there can be no correction of faulty records in the diary, naturally, yes. However, this will always be traceable in the history of adjustments, i.e. in the fields. In exceptional cases, the building log becomes a victim of an accident, either intentionally or by accident, the records kept in it are lost and it is necessary to start writing a new journal. The electronic form of the building diary excludes this and priori again. Electronic building diary is also a condition for the development of BIM methods, i.e. the information model of the construction - translated very freely. It is actually a database containing the life cycle of the building or building from the construction design, operation to the removal of the construction. Strategic document The concept of the implementation of the BIM method in the Czech Republic was approved by the government on 25 September 2017, but without the electronicisation of the building documentation in it cannot be progressed very much. Most arguments in favour of the electronic building journal contain previous points. Here I will mention only two generally known cases where, after the problems found, the building journal could not play its role as a witness to the progress of the work for some reason. If the diary was kept electronically, it is clear that a similar situation could not occur. I've already talked about Studénka's misfortune. Therefore, allow me to briefly make one more case, coincidentally also from the Moravian-Silesian Region. It's a case of the famous D47 rolling highway near Ostrava in 2007. The Road and Motorway Directorate brought an action against the contractor of the construction due to the identified gross faults in the motorway traffic immediately after it was opened. Bobbling embankments and subsoils have become the subject of a lawsuit in an arbitration court that has not decided the dispute to date. The state got into evidence because the building journals were shredded by the hired - and this is the case - by the hired technical supervision of the investor, i.e. an external private company. The case is pending from 2013 until now, i.e. seven years ago. It is not possible to identify the materials that have been incorporated into the embankment, it is not possible to determine who approved these building materials. The electronic management of building journals therefore has a certain anti-corruption effect, as it makes it impossible for deliberate or unintentional alteration, re-upgrading or de-evaluation of the records in the building journal or its overall deliberate or unintentional liquidation. This can increase legal certainty and protection of the interests of the investor, i.e. the Czech Republic, public budgets and local authorities in the segment of the economy, which burden the public sector more than CZK 220 billion each year. As I have already mentioned, for these reasons, I do not consider the reference in paragraph 1. 3 Paragraph 166 of the Construction Act that, in the case of their management in electronic form, it was sufficient. How, then, does the concept of an electronic building journal work in practice? This is actually an up-to-date question since this January. Unfortunately, not very well, actually. And I'll explain right away. On the very obligation to keep an electronic building journal, ČKAIT, which is based on the opinion of the MMR, from which I now briefly quote: "On 29 September 2020, the Chamber of Deputies passed Act No. 403/2020 Coll., amending Act No. 416/2009, on speeding up the construction of various infrastructures, as amended, and other related laws. This Act came into force on 1 January 2021. At the same time, Law No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations, the so-called Building Act, as amended. On the basis of this amendment, a new paragraph 6 was added, among other amendments to Section 152, which reads: For a construction which is the subject of a public contract under an over-the-limit scheme, the builder is obliged to keep the building journal in electronic form.' This text came into force on 1. 1. 2021. Transitional provisions of Law No 403/2020 contains transitional provisions relating to the application of this new provision § 152 para. 6, since it states that "4. the obligation to keep a building journal in electronic form for a construction which is the subject of a public contract under an over-the-limit scheme shall apply when the procurement procedure is initiated after the date of application of this law'. The specification of the electronic form of the building diary is given in Annex 16, Issues and method of keeping the building diary and simple record of the construction, Decree No. 499/2006 Coll., on the documentation of buildings, as amended, which states: "If all interested parties are owners of electronic signature, the building log may be kept by electronic means." It follows that, in order to be able to keep the building log electronically, all persons entering the building log must be the owners of the electronic signature. If they do not have it, the entries of such a person in the electronic diary must be inserted as a so-called converted document pursuant to Act No. 300/2008 Coll., on electronic operations and authorized conversion of documents, as amended. When the authorised conversion takes place, the document is completely taken from paper to electronic form. The original document and the conversion document created have the same legal effects. Therefore, the authorised conversion of the document only justifies the paper and electronic form of the document and does not affect the contents of the building log and the simple record of the construction and the way in which it is kept, which is now laid down in Annex 16 to Decree No 16. 499/2006 Sb. [[12.40 hours]] The entry in the building journal can be carried out by both the designer and the builders who are both authorized persons under Act No. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Act of Authorization. These authorized persons, who, according to the provisions of Section 13 of the Act of Authorization, provide documents relating to the performance of their activities by own signature and stamp with the state emblem of the Czech Republic, on behalf of the authorized person, the number under which it is registered in the list of authorized persons maintained by the relevant professional chamber - the Czech Chamber of Architects, the Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers and Technicians operating in construction - and indicated by the branch or specialization of its authorization, may own an electronic signature, but not an electronic stamp according to current legislation. It follows from the above that if an electronic construction log must be kept on the site and the entries in it are made by authorized persons, the entries of authorized persons must be converted into electronic form in accordance with the procedures laid down in Act No. 300/2008, on electronic operations and authorised conversion of documents, as amended. The amendment for the registration of authorized persons in the electronic building journal will bring the effectiveness of Act No. 47/2020 amending Law No 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying and amending and supplementing certain laws related to its implementation, as amended, Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on zoning and construction regulations, the Construction Act, as amended, and other related laws, as from 1 July 2023, when the amendment of the provisions of Section 13 of the Act of Authorization will also come into effect, which will allow authorized persons to bear documents related to the performance of their activities with a qualified electronic signature, based on a qualified certificate containing the name of the authorized person, the number under which it is registered in the list of authorized persons kept by the Chamber, the field, or specialization, the designation of the Chamber and the measures qualified electronic time stamp. The construction operator's obligation shall be established from 1 January 2021 for the construction which is the subject of a public contract under an over-the-limit scheme, the procurement procedure of which was initiated after 1 January 2021. According to the provisions of Section 157 of the Construction Act, a building diary or simple record of the construction is obliged to keep the contractor of the construction at the construction carried out by the construction self-help builder. The obligation to keep a building journal in electronic form may be fulfilled by the builder in two ways, either on the basis of an agreement or by a contract with a contractor whose subject will be the contractor's obligation to keep a building journal in electronic form, or by itself ensuring the transfer of entries in the building journal into electronic form. The liability of the construction worker arising from the provisions of § 152 para. 6 of the construction law is not affected by this. So much for the Ministry of Regional Development. I will just add that the information on the entry into force of the electronic stamp on 1 July 2023 no longer applies, within the DEPO digitization package we have moved it to 1. 1. 2022. ČKAIT, on the basis of this opinion, further argues that it is clear from the opinion that the construction worker of the above-limit public contract will have to do until 1 July 2023, i.e. now new to 1. 1. 2022, paper building diary convert to authorized electronic form as a whole pursuant to Act No. 300/2008. [[unintelligible]] The electronic authorization stamp and the transitional provision are missing. Now I briefly quote from the analysis that First Information Systems had to process to the current situation from the point of view of the builder. It is available publicly on the Internet. Let me skip the introductory information and start straight at the second part, entitled Relevant legislation: "Determination of § 157 para. 2 of Act 183 of the Construction Act provides that a simple record of the construction is required to be kept by the contractor of the construction." We already know that. And here: "In Annex No 9 of Decree No. 499/2006, about the documentation of the buildings, the specified requirements and the method of keeping the building journal are given. Paragraph C of the Annex states, inter alia, that (a) the construction log must be accessible at any time during the construction work to all authorised persons and must contain the original sheets and the necessary quantities of copies for the separation of other persons. It must have numbered pages and must not leave available spaces in it. (b) Records of work progress and their context shall be recorded on the same day, at the latest on the following day on which the work is carried out. For technically simple buildings, records may be made with the approval of the construction office for a maximum period of one working week. (c) Where all interested parties are holders of an electronic signature, the building log may be kept by electronic means.'; Paragraph 5 of Law No. 297/2016, on trust services for electronic transactions, provides that only a qualified electronic signature may be used to sign an electronic signature if it is signed by an electronic document by which a State, a territorial self-governing entity, a legal person established by law or a legal person established or established by a State, a territorial self-governing entity or a legal person established by law is acting. Paragraph 6 of Law No. 297/2016 Coll., on trust services for electronic transactions, stipulates that only a recognised electronic signature can be used to sign an electronic signature if the electronic document which is currently being dealt with against a public signatory or another person in connection with the exercise of their powers is signed. A recognised electronic signature is then a guaranteed electronic signature based on a qualified certificate for an electronic signature or a qualified electronic signature. Legal assessment. Since Decree 499/2006 Coll., on building documentation, explicitly regulates electronic building journals, we believe that there can be no doubt about the possibility of keeping a building journal in electronic form. The interpretation of all related regulations must then be such that this procedure is allowed. The reverse procedure would be contrary to the principles of unity and rationality of the rule of law. Any confusion in the interpretation cannot then be attributed to the addressees of legal standards. Compare, for example, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, the file mark 1US643/06, dated 13. 9. 2007 where it has been explicitly judged that, I quote: "Public power cannot use the uncertainty of the legislation itself.' The basic prerequisites for keeping an electronic building journal are laid down in Section 157 of the Construction Act in conjunction with Annex 9 of the Order. The decree states that a building log cannot be kept in electronic form only if all interested persons are holders of an electronic signature, while the definition of an electronic signature is found in Law No. 297/2016. I've already talked about this. Although the construction diary is considered to be an act against the public authority, the definition of an electronic signature pursuant to Section 6 of Act No. 297/2016 Sb. A recognised electronic signature which can be signed by an electronic building log means only a guaranteed electronic signature concluded on a qualified certificate for an electronic signature or a qualified electronic signature. Other types of electronic signatures such as biometric signatures, unauthorized certificates and similarly cannot be used for the signature of an electronic building journal. The concept of a person concerned is not defined by law anywhere, therefore it is necessary to interpret it in the context of the legislation in question. We believe that it is appropriate to use rather restrictive interpretations within the meaning of the above principles and caselaw, according to which the person concerned is not every person located at the construction site, but only those who are entitled or obliged to take records into the building journals in accordance with Section 157, and 158 of the Construction Act respectively. By this interpretation, we would therefore narrow the area of the participants to the builder, construction manager, person performing the construction surveillance, person carrying out the inspection of the building and person responsible for carrying out the selected survey work, or other persons calculated in the above paragraphs. [[12.50 hours]] While the State, the local government unit or other public body sign an electronic document by law always recognized by electronic signature - Section 5 of Act No. 297/2016, private persons are not obliged to own an electronic signature. Therefore, it is not excluded that during the construction work it will become apparent that one of the interested parties is not entitled to use the accepted electronic signature. How to proceed in such a case? We believe that a situation where at some point one of the interested parties cannot sign the entry in the building journal by electronic signature is not an insurmountable obstacle to keeping an electronic building journal. We believe that the document signed by a recognised electronic signature can be replaced by an authorized conversion of the original document. Authorized conversion preserves the power of the electronic original while guaranteeing its unchangeableness. The documentary version of the document would be signed by a person authorised to do so in writing in this situation, then an authorized conversion of the document into an electronic version would be carried out, for example through the Czech Point contact point at the city office, notary, lawyer and so on. The converted document would then be added to the electronic building journal as an electronic record. The decree explicitly allows the execution of the entry into the building journal to take place no later than the following day on which the construction work was carried out. From this point of view, the document will then be transferred to electronic form and then electronic entry will be made to the electronic building journal in the decree of the specified limit. This will not be a combined building diary that combines written and electronic entries, but still a purely electronic diary. The above does not alter the provisions of the Decree, which states that persons carrying out selected activities under construction under Section 158 of the Construction Act show the right to carry out these activities by imprinting their stamp and signature in the building journal. It also applies to the change of these persons during the construction process. Although the legislation does not know the electronic equivalent of the stamp stamp, we believe that the above provision does not prevent the conduct of an electronic building journal. These documents can also be first created in paper form, subsequently converted, including stamp prints through an authorized person, as mentioned in point 3.7 of this Opinion. In our opinion, the decision is for this person to own an electronic signature because it is the only requirement laid down in the legislation. In our view, it is not possible to extend these requirements beyond the relevant legislation beyond an acceptable limit, such as an electronic stamp which does not exist. As mentioned above, the only constitutionally conformal interpretation of the legislation is that it is really possible to keep the building journal electronically. However, despite the above, we believe that this procedure should be an exception rather than a rule. All documents should be authorised primarily by means of a recognised electronic signature, not by conversions. It should only be used as an emergency procedure. I identify with this evaluation, by the way. Access to the electronic building log at the construction site. In addition to the above, the other conditions of the management for the construction diary laid down by law cannot be omitted. Due to the specificity of the electronic building journal, it is necessary to mention above all the condition of accessibility of the construction diary at the construction site throughout the course of the work to all authorised persons. In our view, this condition is also feasible through remote access to the cloud service, for example. Other elements of the electronic building journal, such as numbering of pages, absence of vacancies or making entries in the building journal no later than the following day on which the construction work was carried out, do not differ in substance from that of the building journal in paper form and their implementation is rather a technical issue. However, this does not change the fact that these conditions must also be respected when keeping an electronic building journal. In conclusion, the management of the building journal in electronic form is, in our opinion, possible for compliance with legal assumptions. The interpretation of all related regulations must then be such that this procedure is really possible. Secondly, the essential prerequisite for the possibility of keeping an electronic building journal is that all interested parties are owners of an electronic signature. This is mainly the builder, the construction manager, the person performing the construction supervision, the person carrying out the inspection of the construction and the person responsible for carrying out the selected survey work. In the case of the State and the administrative authorities, this condition can, in our opinion, be considered to be automatically met. Thirdly, in case it would be necessary to make a record in the electronic building journal and to sign it by a person who, despite the above mentioned, is not legally possible, it is possible, in our opinion, to draw up a paper record, which will subsequently be converted into electronic form by an authorized conversion of the document original, which will then be inserted into the building journal within the time limit set by the relevant decree - that is, by the second day. For First Information Systems, the law firm Kruták & Partners processes. We have been forced to respond to these serious facts, as I have already said, by preparing an amendment to the Government Bill, which amends certain laws in connection with the further electronisation of public authorities' procedures, the so-called DEPO, the House Press 756. Here in this section 163 which represents the amendment of Act No. 47/2020 amending Law No 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying and amending and supplementing certain laws related to its implementation, as amended, Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations, Construction Act, as amended and other related laws. Through this carrier, we have shifted the effectiveness of the provisions of Part Four, i.e. the regulating electronic stamp, which now takes effect on 1 January 2022. In addition to the above opinion, ČČEČIT. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, this opinion does not concern our established obligation to keep the building journal electronically, this concerns the electronic building journal itself. This House did not touch the latest amendment on how to keep an electronic building journal or what requirements are for a designer's signature. All of this is already true, and it's done on a voluntary basis. The electronic building diary has been anchored in its decree for 14 years. If this were true, what I was quoting in the previous statement, it does not apply from 1 January 2021, but from 1 January 2007, when the decree first admitted the possibility to keep the building journal electronically. Perhaps no one here will claim that 14 years of electronic journals were conducted by paperwork and then scanned at the Czech Point. However, one. 1. 2022 will be able to use an electronic stamp, let me outline once again the possible procedure that could be applied this year. We know that as of 1 January 2021, the construction law provides for an obligation for the construction - blah, blah, blah - of the construction system to keep the diary in electronic form. [[What's ……]] Sorry, I'll skip that. According to the authorization law, persons authorized under this law shall provide documents in connection with the performance of their activities with an authorization stamp. From the opinion of the MMR, from which I quoted, it follows above that the builder will have to keep the construction log in paper form during the transitional period and continuously convert it into electronic form as a whole under Act No. 300/2008. However, this procedure denies the purpose of the law in the finals, in order to ensure the management of a fully-fledged electronic building journal. It would also be possible to heal the absence of an electronic stamp by a procedure other than the one proposed by the MMR in its opinion. This is my question here to the Minister whether this change of interpretation would be possible according to her, namely the building diary as a document would be provided with the title page, originally drawn up in paper form, bearing the authorization stamp of the authorized person who makes entries in this diary. [[13.00 hours]] This front page would be properly converted into electronic form pursuant to Act No. 300/2008 Sb., on electronic operations. It would therefore be the title page containing the electronic version of the original stamp on the document. The integrity of the building diary, i.e. the binding of this front page to the rest of the building diary, which would be kept only electronically, would be possible by using the technology of recognized electronic signatures. The authorised person would electronically sign a recognised electronic signature on the front page of the journal with the stamp on it and would sign the records in the building journal. The building diary would therefore have an authorization stamp within the meaning of the authorization law on the title page converted, but it would be practically possible to maintain it in full form using recognized electronic signatures. The identification of this document and the stamp could be carried out at any time by the authorised person by signing the title page of the document with its stamp and its recognised electronic signature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u25	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but it's 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u26	I have the last three sentences here. Do you think I could finish this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u27	Try it, yes, I hope you'll make it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u28	Thank you. Since the legislation does not contain any other requirements for the electronic form or form of the building journal, it may be maintained in any electronic format or software, subject to adequate compliance with the requirements for the contents of the paper building journal. With this proposal, in addition to the MMR, I would like to turn to the Ministry of the Interior as the authorization law is in its scope. However, the opinion of the MMR will be, I dare say, crude. I believe that this procedure could be adopted by the MMR and would allow for a practical and rational interpretation of the provision, which is enshrined in the conditions of the democratic rule of law laid down in Art. 1 Constitution desirable. Thank you for your attention and any response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u29	Thank you. We made it more or less at 1:00, including. I am interrupting the discussion of the points of this merged debate and recall that the 101st meeting will begin at 14.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-002-999.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the afternoon sitting adjourned by the 98th session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record your participation, I have just checked you out, I will ask you to sign in or tell me who votes with the replacement card. Otherwise, of course, it can be referred to what we already had recorded yesterday in the 98th meeting, including apologies. Let me remind you that this morning we decided to continue discussing the interrupted paragraph 536, which is
