ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u1	45. Government bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 864/ - first reading In addition to the Minister of Health Jan Blatný, I will ask Mr Rostislav Vyzula to take his place at the rapporteur's table because he will be rapporteur for first reading. I will now ask that, under the authority of the Government, this proposal be made by the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. As soon as the noise level is lower than it currently is, I'll give the Minister my word. Please settle in your seats and let the Minister speak his opening words in a dignified environment. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present here a proposal for an amendment to the Act on addictive substances. The basic objectives of the proposal are to establish the prescription and supply of medicinal products containing addictive substances to an electronic recipe with the designation "highly addictive substance" and to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use for patients in the Czech Republic. The current form of the Act on addictive substances does not sufficiently reflect changes related to the transition to a mandatory electronic recipe or a newly established so-called pharmaceutical record. The draft law therefore introduces an electronic recipe with the term "highly addictive substance" which will unify the method of prescription for all medicinal products. The main reason for this change is the use of the benefits of eRecipe, in particular the reduction of the possibility of contraindications with other medicinal products and the excessive prescription of these medicinal products by different physicians. The proposed legislation also sets firm limits on the prescription and supply of medicinal products containing addictive substances between the Act on addictive substances and the Act on Medicines. For this reason, both the proposal and the related amendment are part of the Act on Medicines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House again for peace. If you are discussing another subject, please in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u4	Furthermore, in order to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use and eliminate current shortcomings, the draft law introduces a new system of licensing for the cultivation of cannabis plants for therapeutic use. The State Institute for Drug Control will no longer buy cannabis for therapeutic use from growers, thereby saving funds and making cannabis distribution more effective for therapeutic use from growers to patients. The purpose of the proposed adjustment is in particular to enable private entities to grow cannabis plants for therapeutic use, to produce a active substance from them and to distribute it under the same conditions as any other addictive substance. This means that distributors will be able to export such produced cannabis for therapeutic use abroad and to look for new outlets, which will result in an increase in production. Due to the increase in production in the Czech Republic, there is also expected to be an increase in competition and competitiveness with a positive impact on the final price of medicinal products containing cannabis for therapeutic use as well as for Czech patients. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me summarize that the aim of this proposal is to take another necessary step towards the electronisation of health care, and, as I have already said, to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use for Czech patients. And that is why I dare ask all of you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u5	I thank the Minister of Health Jan Blatný and ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to present the news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u6	Mr President, thank you. Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment briefly on what the Minister has already explained in detail here. As far as the first part is concerned, this is the electronization of the recipe, so we all remember well what we were here in the past period, what were the problems with the introduction of the electronic recipe. Today, today we see what a huge advantage this has for patients. No one's complaining. Every year it is prescribed for 60 million recipes in this way. Everything's working out. The system was once, twice overloaded in the first year of operation, it was in 2018. And it's working. However, we had already said that the second phase of this process would be the introduction of an electronic opiate recipe. We now need to prescribe them for a special recipe with the so-called blue stripe, and patients must always come to the doctor. [[16.00 hours]] It's tens of thousands these days, maybe hundreds of thousands of patients who use opiates. Of course, they are not only oncological patients, but many others. And, of course, where it is possible - not always, but where it is possible - I do not see why these patients could not have this option, because it saves them both the way to the doctor, and it reduces the risk of infection to the coronavirus and it is of great importance to them. So this thing is really an asset. The amendment came to the House on May 13th of last year, today is the end of January. You can see that we have waited patiently, and now we would like to ask you for further consideration. As far as the second part is concerned, this is an improvement in production and such self-sufficiency in the production of medicinal cannabis, it is also an important thing, because at present, just for your idea, 1 gram of therapeutic cannabis costs from 170 to 250 crowns. The average oncological patient from our institute, as I have examined, consumes something between 5 and 10 grams per month, but some patients do much more. The insurance company pays up to 30 grams per month. And yet it is - those patients who have more consumption, the amount spent on cannabis can be quite difficult for them. That is why the possibility of improving licensing for production will allow higher competition for cannabis production, which is what we expect lower price. For producers, for growers, it will be a decoy to be able to export grown hemp, which will certainly improve the quality of the product. And to a lesser extent, we will also want the form in which cannabis is delivered to patients to change, so that it is not just the powder. I don't know if you can imagine, but it's basically kind of like hay - it's kind of a pill that goes into capsules and patients use it in this form. And, of course, there is another possibility, for example, in some kind of liquid form, so that the cones can be made. So both are beneficial to our patients. That is why I am asking you for the opportunity to discuss the committees. I would then comment on the possibility of shortening the time limit for this discussion in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u7	I thank the rapporteur and record his application for the debate, as I note the application of my colleague, Mr Černohorský, with priority rights, I apologise. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose a merger of the debate, paragraphs 45 and 46. The point is that these laws deal with a similar issue, and that is why the Organizing Committee has included them in this way so that we can merge the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u9	Thank you. So the second application was withdrawn because it was the same proposal. I will vote on the merger of the debate on press 864 and 331 and, of course, on the outcome of the vote, then we will take concrete organisational steps. I've begun. And we will vote on the merger of the debate on these two press votes number 159, which I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour of the merger of the debate? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 159 out of 89 present for 39, against no one. The motion was not accepted. So at this point, we will continue the debate, and the rapporteur with priority rights is the first to sign up. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to propose a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u11	Okay, thank you, I made a note. Who's next in the debate? I don't have a written application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain my proposal to the other committees when we assign this bill. The material here, among other things, solves, say, liberalisation or some sort of removal of absurdity in the commercial production of medicinal cannabis. From the debates that we have had here, whether on the committee or within the committee members, as well as at the seminar that dealt with the potential of cannabis, I find it rational to join this effort and debate on the issue of eliminating some absurdities in technical cannabis. And for that reason, because it concerns agriculture, I will also propose the commandments to the agricultural committee. Now I'm just explaining, and then I'm gonna sign up for the proposal, or I'm gonna say it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u13	Yes, I have noted the proposal for an agricultural committee from my colleague Holomčík. Another sign-in for the debate? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I must say that I have not fully understood what actually happened in the last few minutes, why it was not possible to merge the debate when the previous agreement was even on it, but I will simply perform twice, I will try quickly not to delay you for a long time. The government amendment to the Act on addictive substances, at least the declared objective, aims to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use by allowing the export of cannabis for therapeutic use from the Czech Republic abroad. When you read the novel properly, you will find that the only thing it actually does successfully, although in a very special way, is to allow the export of medicinal cannabis purely by cutting the obligation of the State Institute for Drug Control to arrange exports through it. Actually, he's leaving it on a classic export permit. And that brings us to what the State Institute for Drug Control does best, that's nothing. So this is part of the novel that I have to commend. What I can't quite compliment, or even very strongly criticize, is that, for example, it introduces a very special structure where the law lays down some conditions for granting a licence for the cultivation of medicinal cannabis, it also lays down the conditions for granting cannabis for the treatment of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, but at the same time, in these two institutes, it says that there is no legal right to issue them and to issue that authorisation or issue that licence. I think that is an extremely dubious thing, because if the law lays down any conditions, by simply fulfilling them, I must be granted such a license or such a permit. Another remarkable thing is that, after you have fulfilled all the conditions for granting a licence or for granting a permit for treatment, instead of waiting for, say, a normal 30 days for a decision, the Inspectorate of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances may issue this decision after four months. There's a four-month deadline. I think it's extremely long, and it should be clearly shortened. [[16.10 hours]] The Minister has already mentioned that this amendment also introduces a group of so-called highly addictive substances, namely addictive substances contained in Annexes 1 and 5 of the Government's regulation on the list of addictive substances which are not in Annex 8. Interestingly, for cannabis only for therapeutic use, this amendment introduces an obligation, or rather limits, that it cannot be prescribed for a recipe with a blue stripe. So all the synthetic opioids, all the extreme dryers we're distributing to patients today, may be on a blue strip recipe, but not cannabis. Apparently cannabis is more dangerous than synthetic opioids. That, of course, is completely absurd. And the last thing I would pierce is an unnecessarily strict definition of the necessary competence, which also does not add greater availability of therapeutic cannabis. All these things that I mentioned, I will definitely try to do at second reading, if the proposal comes through, to fix it with my amendments, and why I say this is that we should just realize that just like the pirate amendment that I'm about to introduce, even this government amendment doesn't have... She's not perfect, she just has her flies, but we should talk about her, we should let her go to second reading and fix those flaws. If they can be corrected, we certainly intend to support the amendment, but if they cannot be corrected, it will be very, very difficult for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-006-045.u15	I thank the honourable Member, and who else to debate? If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. This is not the case, there has been no motion to return or refuse, we will deal with the motion for a commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 160, which I have begun, and I ask, who is for the commandment of the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 160. At present 92, for 77, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but in the debate, a proposal was made for it to be an agricultural committee. We're going to decide in the 161 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 161. Of the 92 Members present for 80, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. There is now a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. We will vote in vote number 162, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 162. Present 91 MP, for 68, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee, and that the Committee on Agriculture has been ordered, and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 45. We'll deal with the point.
