ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u1	351. Government bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2000 Sb., on supported sources of energy, as amended / House print 966/ - third reading Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the Economic Committee, Mr Petr Dolínek, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 966/4, which was delivered on 26 November 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 966/5. The appellant is interested in speaking before the opening of the debate at third reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this law, the so-called Dukovan law, is better called more precisely, because it is clearly directed by the Czech Republic towards low-carbon energy, it is coming to third reading, and I am presenting a law with the recommendation of the Economic Committee to adopt one amendment, namely a proposal to shift its entry into force to 1 March - that is what it was - and, in view of the state of the negotiations, I propose to postpone this date, namely 1 May. No opinion was adopted on one amendment. In particular, it is a minimum limit for installed low-carbon output, where we set 100 MW. This is based on an energy law of public interest, or in the case of maturity of technologies of so-called small modular reactors, the law can be amended, but it is unlikely that this would be the case in the next five to ten years. This law was already approved by the Government in July 2020, following the discussion of the principle of law and - important to say - broad, almost unanimous support on the standing committee for the construction of new nuclear resources - no one was opposed at the time - where all the political parties represented in this House have their member. So, in view of the political debate, logically in recent days, I would like to reiterate that this law does not address - and this is important to keep saying - security issues. This law addresses the economic and financial provision of new nuclear resources, the principle of electricity buyout, not only from new blocks in Dukovany. I am very pleased and appreciate that this position is shared in the clear majority by the members of the economic committee who rejected the amendments in question, and by the vast majority. So, please once again, if we could stick to the agreement from the Standing Committee, namely on 9 December, that the search for a very important consensus on the state's security requirements - and no one is questioning them - is taking place at a different level within the supplier's tender. In particular, a meeting of the chairmen of all political parties has also been convened. As promised, it took place at the end of January. The reason for the presentation of the law, as I have already mentioned, is to resolve possible market failures in the case of the construction of new nuclear units, which the European Commission has clearly identified. The new proposal introduces a clear institute of a contract for the purchase of electricity, sometimes we call it an off-take contract between the state and a legitimate investor, or ČEZ. In view of the upcoming tender for the new block in Dukovany and the ongoing notification of the European Commission's action on the compatibility of aid with internal market rules, the draft law is more general in some aspects, leaving flexibility for future contractual arrangements between the state and between a legitimate investor, I repeat, ČEZ. The purchasing price mechanism is based on the principle of the energy law that we already know and which, as with the supported renewable sources, involves control of overcompensation - we think that this is largely addressed. The financing model is based on a model of financing aid according to the so-called POZE, through a regulated component of electricity, so it is the same model. However, we all know that in 2009, 2010 we failed. Today it costs us 47 billion crowns a year. There's no way this is going to happen. Even if we look only in principle mathematically, with regard to the fixing of the price - and that is actually the whole essence - based on the thinning of the good price and the price of financing - we will move by the order below. Moreover, since 2036, if the price of electricity at that time is higher, we will be making money if it is lower, it will be at the expense of the State less than the current promotion of renewable resources, or it will be under discernment. [[10.20 hours]] This is actually the whole principle, the whole essence of fixing the favourable purchase price today. This is therefore a key law and I consider it important enough to be approved within Parliament as soon as possible. I appreciate the support. Thank you for complying with our agreement, which has been discussed within the core committee, and I believe that the negotiation of this law will also take priority in the Chamber of Deputies and that it will pass successfully through the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u3	Thank you. I'm opening the debate, and I'm the first one to... [[Mr Dolínek:]] Mr rapporteur, this is the third reading. I'm registering your application with priority rights, but President Bartoš has applied before the beginning of the meeting. So first, President Bartoš, then the rapporteur, who also has the right to this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I can't say hello to the Prime Minister today for obvious reasons, which I also wanted to address, perhaps remotely, Prime Minister. In all the discussions of this law, we have dealt with a bit of a false dilemma about the use of nuclear energy, or often completely hypocritically, it has been said here that anyone who opposes this law is also opposed to the use of nuclear energy, or that he might want to make energy more expensive for citizens. For example, it sounded from the Prime Minister, which is why I am a little sorry that he is not here today when Mr Lipavský intersected him for the Pirates. It's exactly the opposite. Pirates want affordable, clean and cheap energy for citizens, and this can also be the nuclear energy if they have nuclear projects in the Czech Republic, and not only Dukovanský, in the future realisticly set individual constraints, which should be done for reasonable money and with a reliable supplier, who will not threaten to push us towards the wall in any way. I would just like to say that we have interrupted the negotiation of this law with a reference before we find agreement in the current political representation across the political parties. These areas were not only geopolitical, so whether or not to include suppliers from Russia and China into the tender itself; I suppose it still stands, at least that's what Prime Minister Babiš said at the meeting of the 27th, that China didn't. I would like to hear whether Russia will enter this tender and whether there will be an economic model for how this project will be financed. In the supplier's case: it's not a matter of how the tender will compete, but we're talking about a partnership that will not just inherit another government, next generation, but several other generations. The project of possible completion of new nuclear blocks in Dukovany is a partnership for 80 years. It was also a big question of how the economic view of who would be an investor at the time will be finalized. If I were to project what took place at the meeting on 27 January, where you were present, where Mr Míl was present, the head of the entire nuclear energy committee, where the director of ČEZ was Mr Beneš, where Prime Minister Babiš was. From Mr Babiš to Mr Beneš, it was said, among other things, that he still has to figure out how to finance the entire project. There was a possibility that the company, which already exists and has about 200 people, needed about 300 engineers for the whole project, that the state would therefore be 100% owner or that it would be worth the money of the state, because ČEZ has its minority shareholders and, of course, at the total price of the project and in its profitability it must then satisfy these shareholders. And the answer to that question was not at the meeting on 27 January. We are now before the third reading of the law, which already has in its essence the contractual state defined. So how can we discuss, or vote at third reading, a law that speaks of one of the models, while the Prime Minister - and I consider the Prime Minister as a representative of the state on this matter - spoke with Mr Beneš 14 days ago about the fact that there is no clear way of financing at all? We believe that in terms of financing this project - precisely in order to avoid the satisfaction of some minority shareholders - it is important that, if someone puts the money into it, it is the Czech Republic. If at the moment we have the opportunity to join Dukovany II, where 200 people are already recruited, go to the total number of engineers who could handle this, all of this must be clearly defined. We are talking about a low-carbon law today, but it is really the definition by which the Czech Republic will or will not address the construction of new nuclear blocks. We have entered into negotiations with several priorities. After all, the constraints under which this project is feasible and acceptable - because we can also end up like the failed Temelín project, which we had to deal with in a difficult way as the Czech Republic - the investment is huge before it kicks into the country, so the Czech Republic can invest up to 20 billion in the preparatory stages. We are trying to maximize the transparency of the entire process of this negotiation, to address the issue of partnership and security, while taking into account the end prices of electricity in the future. That's why we've set out the seven boundaries we're talking about. The first, and it was quite clear, the ceiling of the price in the law, including the clarified effects on prices for final customers and the state budget. The Prime Minister spoke about this several times for the media, where he basically guarantees - at least rhetorically, but he guarantees a lot of things - some final price, however, to put the ceiling into the law clearly there is no will. I think that the thing that goes on is that his comparison with the choice of myth - that there is also no question in the law how much the motorways are going to pay - that it is not a comparable thing. We are talking about a project on which households will depend, on which companies in the Czech Republic will be dependent in the drawing of energy. At least there should be a final price, because if the project gets expensive, which is point two, of course someone has to pay for it. And if we look at solutions of similar projects abroad, they often go for a longer period of time, and those projects are significantly more expensive than expected costs. Therefore, it is important that the fixed price of the project should also be addressed. We have to go to the final prize. This is why it has to be, and this is the third point, about the key delivery, in which one major supplier will be responsible for the project including all related delivery guarantees. I've already justified that point. It is important for us to make it clear who the investor will be. In our view, it should be the state, not ČEZ, mainly because of cheaper financing. The price of money is crucial. I was there looking at the graph that the minister was showing. We may repeat the interpretation here today in the House, but I hope that some analysts will make a counterargument. I mentioned that safety and choice of partner for the Czech Republic are really important. We have yet to discuss that the tender should not be tailor-made in quotation marks. The "made-to-measure" is given a little bit by the capacity declared hard in the forecast tender, which, in the context of a very short period of time, eliminates possible suppliers who, although carrying out projects higher, would be able to adjust their offer to the parameters of the intended project, to the parameters of the intended tender. [[Submitting?]] The capacity that is given there, 1,200 megawatts, is tailor-made at this time, in a given time of practically two suppliers, but rather one. It's quite important there. We've been in the debate with the MIT, with the energy people. There were several reservations about why it couldn't be more, the capacity. [[10.30 hours]] Interestingly, the reservations are being ploughed gradually. The first was that the net couldn't handle it. There the energy experts - and with us they make people who have historically worked in the energy sector - so the total capacity of the network was... We are still talking about the fact that it is not possible in the vision of the future implementation of the project or the parallelity of existing and possible new blocks, realistic that there would actually be a gradual replacement due to the lifetime of the existing Dukovan blocks. But there were several fundamental counterarguments that this should not be a show-stopper or, respectively, the reason why capacity is limited to the 1,200, which can only be supplied by a few suppliers. The second reservation that was made was that it would not "cool down. " This, too, was quite clear in the area of expertise that, of course, this is solvable within such a project. Another argument has now emerged, but with that also probably the expert analysts are working, that if they were larger reactors and blocks, so it is actual physical transport, how to get individual components into place. Interestingly, this argument appeared only after the previous two reasons why we cannot talk about more capacity were refuted. I would just like to point out that if this tender parameter were not changed, we are still in favour - and it was also said by Mr Míl - of going the way where the entry companies would have longer time to apply to this tender, especially because there are countries in the world and, respectively, their companies that can adapt the offer of a lower capacity requirement. But, of course, in complex projects such as the construction of a nuclear power plant, it's not the case that you cross out four parameters in the table, but you're basically dealing with a new, tailor-made project. That brings me back to the demands. If we want to have a defined fixed price at the beginning and it's supposed to be a key delivery, it can't be some kind of pre-offer where all things aren't clarified, because that would put the whole tender at risk. I will now return to the beginning of my opening speech and thank you for listening to it. If we have interrupted discussing this point with reference to the fact that we are looking for a broader political consensus on both project financing and the fact that the tender should be published and geopolitical issues, whether or not to eliminate Russia and China for reasons of security and future dependence - and we and the pirát are talking about the fact that China and Russia should not be actively invited into the tender, because the Czech Republic can then still face arbitration not on CEZ itself, but on the state itself, because an active invitation means: we are playing with you, and then the elimination of the ex post could be perceived, and I guess by those states as a backstabber - so not one of these questions at the meeting 27. 1. with the Prime Minister, Minister Havlíček, representatives of political parties in the House and with Mr Beneš were not answered. I therefore support the steps that may sound today. It was not the elimination of this point, however, that the House should not vote on this in the third reading today, as the basic parameters for which the honourable House has already postponed the discussion of this point are not clarified. Thank you, good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mr Dolínek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u6	Thank you, Mr President, I had no idea of the written application by my colleague before, so thank you. I have two of these legislative technical things first. One has already been communicated by the Vice Prime Minister, and that is that, given how we are discussing the law here, what length it is, so that we can amend the amendment for effectiveness, so that it will be from 1 May 2021. The second thing is that even though it is this law, one thing has eluded us is that in the very title of the law it is stated that the law is 165/2000, but it is 165/2012. So please feel this technical change so that we can absorb it with all the needs. As rapporteur, I would like to say that, as Mr Vice Prime Minister has also said, the Committee on Economic Affairs has discussed all the amendments, namely Mr Třešňák, Mr Lipavský, Mr Bartošek, Mr Černohorský, Mr Pávek and Mr Dolínek, that is the change in relation to the effectiveness of the law, and, of course, Mr Čižinský, who proposes to reject the law, with the result that I will give you my views later on the vote. As rapporteur, I would like to say two things. First of all, I find it quite regretful that the law started to be called Lex Dukovany here. Only one of the amendments made by Mr Třešňák, who I have co-signed, shows that there is more ambition than the Lex Dukovany Act. If we are to adopt this law, then either it would have to be called that it is a law on the construction of one nuclear source, or let's keep what it says is really a law on low-carbon energy. And let's approach it this way, please. It is not written anywhere that the entire process will end, but nowhere is it written that it will not happen. Therefore, please let us deal with this law as a general rule, as with other laws, and let us not constantly bring this up to just one act, which is construction. On this occasion, as rapporteur, I need to mention or mention the words of Mrs Drábová, and they are probably very important for thinking about this law. We're talking about new sources, but I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister can confirm that in the final word - we're not actually building a new source, we're building a source that will replace the forward-looking blocks that we're shutting down. The life of the blocks has been extended and will be extended according to current knowledge, but we still face the fact that I suspect that between 2040 and 2046 we will have to shut down some Dukovan blocks and actually replace new blocks with existing ones. So please, and I'm saying this because of the public who thinks we're building a new source for energy exports, it's not. We're building a source, or we're going to build a source in case it succeeds, which will secure the existing capacity, but we're not going to needlessly new ones. And I think it's a very neglected fact, which Mrs Drábová well emphasized. And because I see what the President of the Pirates and other colleagues have said, I have here a motion for an accompanying resolution which mentions some of the things that have been discussed here for the last three months. I will now read the motion for an accompanying resolution and then, of course, at the invitation of the President, I will read it once more at the appropriate time. At this point, therefore, the accompanying resolution, which processes the areas that have been raised here, is within the meaning or in the wording of: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is fully aware of the importance of a new nuclear source not only for the energy security of the Czech Republic but also for the life interests of our country. We are a Member State of the European Union and NATO, and we recognise the fundamental values of democracy and freedom. Therefore, the House adopts this accompanying resolution: We ask the Government to inform us immediately about all security and foreign policy parameters of the selection of the supplier for the new nuclear source and to proceed with regard to the security of the Czech Republic. We ask the Government to inform us immediately of further progress in the construction of a new nuclear source, including an assessment of the risks of delaying the project for energy security and for supplying Czech households and the electricity economy. We ask the Government to adopt without delay a clear and transparent binding procedure to determine the upper limit of the guaranteed purchase price and its calculation, including changes in time." The third part of the resolution will logically follow up on the notification by the European Commission, because we will respond then to what will be really granted to us that we can do so. Thank you. And I'll repeat all the other technical matters later on in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue the debate by speaking to Mr Jan Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u8	Thank you, good day. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is badly called. He should be called "the non-market support of ČEZ in Dukovany." It was said before me that the security and economic aspects would somehow be resolved by accompanying resolutions. That's completely wrong. Accompanying resolutions are a kind of non-binding declaration; accompanying resolutions really do not ensure anything at all. The law is dramatically dangerous in the field of security and economics. I think my colleagues are gonna talk a lot about the security area, but I want to point out that the security and economics are just tied up. If a bad security solution is chosen, it won't work economically either, because Dukovany will simply be controlled by someone completely different from our government. [[10.40 hours]] I would like to repeat the most fundamental reservations. First of all, the law went through a short and narrow interdepartmental procedure. A number of comments were made to it, including those made by the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, which were not taken into account. Why is it so urgent when the law opens the way to the most expensive contract in our country's history? The idea that the Minister here said, and I would like the Minister to speak in the debate - he always takes notes and then comes out at the very end, when it is no longer possible to react. So the idea that it's going to be solved with a tender is just wrong. When the House accepts this law at all, it should resolve it today and here, both the security aspects and the economic aspects, and not give it in the form of a accompanying resolution, but simply in the form of a law. The minister here said that if the purchase prices were such that it wouldn't actually pay off, it would be at the expense of the state. Minister Havlíček said: at the expense of the state, as if the state were some entity that is out, it may have some expense. It sounds better to say: the expense of the state than to say: at the expense of all taxpayers and at the expense of all those who take electricity away. That means that the law here is simply because no one is sure that it will work economically, or we're all kind of sure that it won't work economically, that it won't work on the market, and that's why this law is here. If there was hope that it would work market, that it would work economically, then the law wouldn't be here at all. The law works with vague terms, vague wordings. He'll bring us into a prolonged dispute with the future investor. There are strikingly favourable conditions for the investor: the loan that the government can provide under this law for the construction of a new nuclear source will not be remunerated during the construction period. No one explained to me why it was set this way. Is it the state or the citizens that the state borrows without interest? Does anyone lend us interest-free loans? The law is only here because Dukovan's economic plan will be determined by a guarantor, and that guarantor is all citizens of this country as consumers of electricity or as taxpayers. If the House approves this law, as the Minister said, rejects the amendments, then the government gets a bianco check, the House gives up its control over the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to each of you: we are here to control the government, not to resign from our control function. I've made a motion to dismiss this law. I actually appeal to each and every one of you to dismiss the motion. If the Prime Minister's voice is that we want cheap electricity for people and businesses, so if this law is adopted, cheap electricity will cost every citizen a lot of money. Entrepreneurs who are fighting for survival today, if they read how this business plan is backed up by all citizens, will burst with anger because no company has ever gotten such a convenient business plan. In private life, none of us would have signed such a contract, such a vague commitment for decades in advance. So I appeal to everyone not to do what we would never support in private life, not to support it for all the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u9	This was my colleague Jan Čižinský, now Mr Ondřej Babka, and Jan Zahradník will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the press under discussion on the low-energy law, and also the fact that we have unfortunately not been able to discuss this law in the Committee on the Environment, I would now like to brief you on a new study which claims that in specific conditions the Czech Republic and the Netherlands can achieve climate neutrality around 2050 only with the use of nuclear energy, which will remain more cost-effective than renewable energy sources. This independent study was commissioned by the European Conservatives and Reformists, who were co-initiated by MEP Ondřej Knotek and Rob Roos across the political spectrum. The study examines the effectiveness of the European Union's climate neutrality and analyses and compares two climate-neutral energy generating technologies that, if they effectively replace the fossil fuel infrastructure, can lead to the decarbonisation of the electricity system, namely nuclear energy combined with wind and solar energy. In addition to other scientists, the Nobelův Prize winner for economics, William Nordhaus, participated in this study. A study entitled The European Union's Road to Climate Neutrality by 2050, the spatial requirements for wind, solar and nuclear energy and their respective costs, deals with three key challenges for the European Union's ambition to be climate neutral by 2050. Firstly, these are the effects of the European Union's climate neutrality on the average global atmospheric temperature in 2050 to 2100, the spatial ground and maritime requirements for wind and solar energy compared to nuclear energy in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands, and thirdly the costs of wind and solar energy and nuclear energy for these two countries. The study shows that if both countries should rely solely or mainly on wind and solar energy, they do not have enough land in realistic scenarios to satisfy all demand for energy from both the Netherlands, i.e. when it is a land along the North Sea rich in wind, as well as the Czech Republic, that is, land without access to the sea and with a more geographically demanding landscape. For example, in order to generate 1,800 petajoules by wind and solar energy, the Czech Republic would need space of 14,630 km2, and 43,758 km2 respectively. This would mean claiming 19 percent or 55 percent of the land available in the Czech Republic. Achieving the same level of nuclear power generation would require more than 269 km2. This extensive, more than 400-page study concluded that nuclear energy is more cost-effective than renewable resources for the geographical conditions of the countries under examination, i.e. the Czech Republic. As stated in the report, while taking into account the substantial improvement in the efficiency of solar and wind farms, nuclear energy will remain a cheaper option in 2050. I would like to conclude by saying that I am certainly not opposed to renewable energy sources, and I take them as an essential and important part of the energy mix to ensure low-carbon energy in the near future. However, renewable energy, including storage facilities of different types in our geographical conditions, cannot achieve this objective without nuclear energy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u11	I thank Mr Ondřej Babek. I will ask my colleague Zahradník to wait, Minister Petříček has applied with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, let me just briefly address the question of the Czech Republic's Act on the transition to low-carbon energy. It is certainly one of the fundamental laws to contribute to speeding up the Czech energy transition and meeting our goals towards sustainable development. [[10.50 hours]] Our task is certainly to find ways to a clean but also safe energy policy and our energy mix. Certainly this law is not and should certainly not be about just one, though a large project. I therefore agree that, if possible, the universality of the entire law should be allowed to be applicable to other net resources, including forward-looking technologies. Yet the legitimate question is how this law will affect the biggest project in the modern history of our energy, and this is the construction of new blocks of the Dukovany nuclear power plant. In this respect, security is certainly a factor that we must take very seriously, especially because we are creating a relationship with a partner on which we will depend for decades, not only during the construction period. That is why I believe that we should take quite seriously the recommendations of the security community and avoid any steps that may jeopardise the energy security of the Czech Republic or the overall security of our country by unhealthy dependence on risky suppliers. That is why social democracy wants to put forward a motion for an accompanying resolution in this spirit. Our aim must also be to ensure that our citizens have energy and energy available, the supplies of which will be stable. In this regard, it is absolutely essential that the law assists this. The last goal must certainly be to be able to guarantee the limits, the upper limits of the purchase prices, so that it does not reflect again on the prices that we are going to pass on to consumers, thus on to all citizens in this country. These are the fundamental objectives of social democracy, and in this spirit I am glad that the accompanying resolution will be translated, which I take very seriously as a member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u13	I thank the Minister and ask my colleague Zahradník to wait again. I have two factual points here, first my colleague Čižinský and then Mr Lipavský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u14	Thank you. I would have the Minister and, at the same time, by your means, Mr Babka. It was said here that it was not a law on one project, but it was actually clear from the speech that it was a law on one project, that it was set up for one particular project, because otherwise the sentences from your mouth could not be heard, Minister, which was said here. It was just said "not" at first, and then the speech actually proved that it was about one project. And to Mr Babka, through Mr President: and will you support the amendments opening up the competition in order to compete with one project, the Dukovan, within the framework of the law, or not? This is important because if we say here that we have a study that in fifty years, as it will be, so will market mechanisms, this will determine scientific progress etc. We can write that down here any of us we want, what we're gonna do in 50 years. But the law is built on one project, which is why it is so risky, and I therefore appeal to everyone to support at least the amendments that open up competition between different technologies in order to get energy and make it as cheap as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Lipavský, also with a factual remark, is prepared by colleague Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the words of Minister Petříček. I really welcome them and consider them important. I would also like to appreciate the position of the Ministers of the Czechoslovak Republic on nuclear energy issues concerning the security of the Czech Republic in general, because both Minister Petříček and Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček have repeatedly expressed their views on this issue of security and I feel that they take it seriously, take it stately and take it in the spirit of the constitutionality of the Czech Republic. However, proposing an accompanying resolution is one thing, but having legally codified that security will be ensured is another matter entirely. There is absolutely a diametric difference between whether the House has acted on something as a follow-up resolution or whether it will be a law, in a section, black and white. So I call on the Social Democrats to consider whether they will support the amendment, at least one of the two amendments that I propose together with my colleague Žáček, who clearly addresses the geopolitical issue and de facto does not give too much choice to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and CEZ in whether or not they will play a role in the geopolitical direction of the Czech Republic, but this decision can make it a veritable decision to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. So thank you again for the words, but I needed to complete this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u17	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, Mr Roman Onderka with a point of fact. I'm still asking for patience from my Zahradník's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, by your means, to my previous speaker, I understand concern in the security of the Czech Republic, and I think we have a common view here. I understand that we have several options that we could apply, whether it is direct entry into legislation, that is, into law or form of accompanying resolution. Social democracy takes the view that firstly: the greatest responsibility in the selection process is to the government. Secondly, what is more important: not all of the honourable colleagues in this Chamber of Deputies have access to security files. This means, if we are saying today: there is a security risk, and I personally believe it and is convinced of it by social democracy, we certainly do not have the essential thing in our hands. I am convinced that the accompanying resolution is set in the three parameters as presented by my colleague Dolínek and then commented on by my colleague Minister Petříček. Okay, it is about calling on the de facto government to make its decisions according to the dangers or risks of the Czech Republic, and secondly, what parameters it should subsequently respect, whether it is a matter of price and other things. So this is about the view of social democracy, and we will therefore vote in favour of this accompanying resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u19	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and now I really ask my fellow Zahradník to be patient, because I have three more factual points, including his party colleague. The first is a colleague of Lipavský, then a colleague of Čižinský and Pavel Žáček as the third with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. You know, you really don't have to have access to any security files, any specific information to make a point about how countries from which technology suppliers come - and, in the case of Russia and China, they're state corporations, state-owned - make a judgment about how they behave. The newspaper reports on how the Russian Federation acted during the gas crisis that Prime Minister Topolánek then dealt with when we chaired the European Union. In the paper, you will learn about how the Russian Federation maintains its international commitments, whether against its neighbours, to whom it will swallow a piece of territory and start a war, or against its own citizens while respecting various international conventions, if it, for example, tries to murder a fighting substance. There is no need for you to look at the state of bilateral relations with individual countries, and I am talking a lot about Russia here, and I am still going to talk about Russia, because the debate has not taken place and it has to happen somewhere, which I will also talk about. [[11.00 hours]] You can read all this from the newspaper, which any citizen of the Czech Republic can make judgment and you do not need to get some briefing that is subject to the regime. Of course, the security forces are developing mode documents. Minister, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček repeatedly spoke of this in the papers. It is perfectly okay there that there is a limited group of people by law who have access to these documents. But in order for the House to decide what the foreign policy direction of this country is on fundamental issues - you do not need to know the data for that. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u21	Now a colleague of Čižinský with a factual remark, a colleague of Žáček and a colleague of Onderka with factual remarks. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u22	Thank you. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Onderka. It was said here that not all Members have access to security information. I have to say, this situation is very uncool. If there is any information, the Members should know. Because if there is any information about this law, this law is dangerous - by the way, it didn't actually come from the mouth of Minister Havlíček. Now, Mr. Onderka here says that not everyone has access to the right information. I think it is really necessary to ensure that all Members have the right information. So I would like to propose an interruption of this point until the Members have been given the information, because otherwise there is a situation that has been suggested by Mr Onderka that we will decide on something that we do not know what we are to know. And that's really - I don't know how you, coworkers and colleagues feel, but I feel that this is not possible to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u23	Mr. Ambassador, I'm aware of your procedural proposal. While this is an abuse of the factual comment in the speech, I respect, of course, that it is a procedural proposal that is voted without debate. I will do so, but, of course, first I will go on and ask the House and the Presidents of the MPs to ensure the presence of colleagues and colleagues who probably did not count on such a procedural proposal. [[Gong.]] So, according to the political grémia agreement, I'm going to give room for colleagues and colleagues to return to the ballroom. [[It's a delay.]] I will repeat the procedural proposal that was made in the debate by my colleague Čižinský. The proposal is to interrupt the security information that is linked to the text of this law... I'll check you out. I'm gonna reengage. [[Gong.]] I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on a procedural proposal that is without a deadline, but it is bound to a certain fact, or it is possible to vote, in the vote number 322. I repeat once again, for the incoming, that this is a vote on the suspension of this item in order to ensure security information. I've started voting 322 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 322, present 84, for 23, against 43. The motion was denied. We will continue, therefore, by speaking in a factual remark from Mr Pavel Žáček, a colleague Onderka and Jan Lipavský will prepare himself. Furthermore, a patient fellow Zahradník with a proper application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u24	Thank you for the floor. I just want to add technically in the context of this vote that the opposition leaders even wanted this item to be interrupted at the press conference and discussed by the Security Committee properly. Even the Security Committee wanted it. But that did not happen, we were not familiar with these materials, because the minister here did not provide us with the materials. I think that the House Committees and committees are discussing a number of sensitive matters in the regime, and in my opinion there was no reason for this blocking to take place. We have been invited to get to know these documents individually, which is not the same, and this situation has simply blocked the competent authority who is here on security issues, the House body, that is, the Security Committee, to discuss this properly and to avoid these debates and to say that Members do not have this information at their disposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Onderka's speech with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through your person, I would like to answer a colleague of Lipavský. Of course, I have a personal opinion about it. Social democracy has an opinion on this from available sources. And we think that the involvement of companies from Russia and China is really a security risk for the Czech Republic. That is also why we are proposing an accompanying resolution and why we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u27	Thank you. Now, one more factual remark from my colleague Lipavský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have two things. I thank Mr Onderk for his comments, for his position. I see him as important. The other thing concerns the procedure. When I study the Rules of Procedure, it is, of course, part of that, that various proposals, including procedural proposals, may fall even during a factual remark. So I do not fully understand your comment on Mr Čižinský, who you have more or less accused of using a factual remark. I feel like this really isn't the place and this shouldn't be happening. That's how it was for you. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u29	Thank you, colleague. But if you have a reservation against my management of the meeting, raise an objection to the President's procedure and it will be voted on. I am patient myself, and since some factual remarks are not merely a reaction to the speech of the previous speaker, I must respond to that as the President. I don't want the excesses that we witnessed here at other colleagues who were then led out of the O.R. And I think that respect for the Rules of Procedure must be maintained constantly. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Jan Lipavský will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to express my views on this issue traditionally. I'm in favour of nuclear power. Without it, I think ensuring our energy security and self-sufficiency is impossible. My opinion is confirmed by all sorts of events. For example, we have recently noted in the media that Sweden experienced a major problem with the supply of electricity related to the power outage from nuclear power plants on Saturday, 6 February as a result of the temperature decline. Swedish television dramatically appealed to citizens to reduce consumption, for example, to avoid louxing their apartments. The activity of the industry was limited and a backup power plant was started, which burns diesel for electricity production. In addition, Sweden had to import electricity from coal power plants from Germany and Poland. The price of power electricity from the usual EUR 30 per megawatt hour increased to EUR 200 per megawatt hour at that time, or to about six times the price we pay for power electricity in the Czech Republic on average. [[11.10 hours]] There are no similar situations in the Czech Republic yet. We have a very robust production and distribution network so far. It is in the worst weather, especially at low temperatures with regard to good cooling, that our Temelín and Dukovany nuclear power plants work very efficiently. After a 20-year anniversary of stable operation, electricity production at the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant reached a total of 1.62 Terrawatt hours in January this year, so it was a record level. What must we do to ensure that the supply of electricity in the Czech Republic remains stable and that our country remains an attractive business environment, thanks to which we are the most industrialized state in the European Union? We know that the Government of the Czech Republic has signed documents as a member of the European Union that bind the Czech Republic to fulfil the key document, which is Green Deal, despite the fact that we have warned the Government, at least some of us have signed on how dangerous this consent can be for our country in the future. Green Deal aims, among other things, at the climate neutrality of the European Union and its Member States by 2050. On the way to this is the decarbonisation of our energy and economy, which is almost half dependent on brown coal. How can we meet these goals in our country? The basic prerequisite is broad agreement across the political spectrum, because electricity is neither right nor left-wing. The main word should then be the word and the opinion of scientists, technicians, experts. We have dealt with the issue of ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic many times here at the House, which is undoubtedly also related to ensuring the overall economic security of our country and its long-term prosperity. There is repeatedly a debate about the completion of the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant, and this is mentioned here by the rapporteur, Dolínek, and I will just remind you that it is not an extension of production, that it is not the construction of some new blocks that will complement the existing capacity, but it is the planned replacement for those blocks that will have to be replaced or as a result of their cessation. Here, in my opinion, comes also on the agenda, what next? We know that the Czech Republic is about to withdraw from coal power. The Coal Commission has recommended to the Government to approve 2038 as a deadline for the departure of our Republic from coal, as they say. It is clear that shutting down coal resources will mean a drop in electricity production. How to replace this decline, the coal commission discussed this very carefully, in detail, and its conclusion was also conditional on these opinions. We're just gonna miss 30 terrawatt hours of electricity. And if we don't have adequate capacity reliable energy sources, we're going to expose ourselves to major shortcomings, energy poverty, blackouts, and similar undesirable phenomena. That is why I think that we should encourage our government, whether it be this government or the government, which will be in our country after the autumn elections, so that it does not hesitate to return to the construction of the Temelín nuclear power plant. I consider it a big mistake when Temelín's tender was completed in 2014 or 2015. We are losing pace, we are losing professional capacity and, of course, we are also gambling with the so far positive attitude of our public to nuclear energy, what support the core has in our country. We live in Budějovice 30 kilometers from the Temelín power plant, and yet we know that this energy has great support for us. What can we do to make nuclear energy acceptable not only to us, to our citizens, but also to the European Union, which decides so many fundamental issues for us? A colleague of Mr Babka mentioned here in detail the study that was carried out on the initiative of MEPs Rob Roos and Czech MEP Ondřej Knotek, which showed that nuclear energy is more cost-effective than renewable resources. I am happy to repeat the words of my colleague Babka here: If we take into account future fundamental improvements in the performance and efficiency of solar and wind power plants, the core will remain a cheaper and more efficient option in 2050. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go too far into the debate here, which is extended by supporters of electricity production from allegedly crystal clear renewable sources using wind and solar radiation. However, these often do not include the energy and emission costs of production and, later on, the unsolved issue of costly recycling. The wind just doesn't blow or blow anywhere, and the sun's rays aren't able to generate more significant electricity production during winter inversions. Not to mention the resistance of the population and municipal councils against the construction of other wind power plants. I just need to briefly recall the case of photovoltaics and its ill-considered support from 2010. We still pay more than 40 billion crowns a year to support solar resources, to promote renewable energy, actually 50 cents of every kilowatt hour goes to support the OZ. Of course, this money would be sufficient for the completion of both nuclear power plants, i.e. briefly, the support of photovoltaics will cost our taxpayers and consumers, who pay for energy, around a trillion crowns by 2030. Renewables are very expensive and often only have one third of the functionality compared to nuclear resources or if we want life. There is a great doubt as to how these renewable sources, fans, solar panels, solar parks, can be eliminated after the end of their lifetime and recycled, whether the costs of this will bring further enormous financial requirements, which we do not yet take into account in the support money. Mr Babka mentioned that one of the initials of the study is a Dutch MEP, and it should be said here that the Netherlands is taking this issue in a new way. The Nizozemec are a nation that has been fighting for its national independence for centuries, fighting for its territory that has been torn out by the sea, and thus has a kind of obligation in its DNA to work effectively for the future. Following an analysis of the requirements and the potential of renewable sources, the Dutch Government has come to the view that the country, the Netherlands, cannot do without a core. The Government of The Hague is now assessing the plan that the Netherlands would like to build up to ten new nuclear units to its existing nuclear power plant. [[11.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must turn to Minister Havlíček as representatives of the government. In fact, if we have here an informal Euro-Mediterranean Czech-Dutch initiative on this subject, how long will your government representation succeed in waiting for it to join forces with the Government of the Netherlands and promote universal support for the development of nuclear energy in the European Commission? What the Prime Minister comes up with is to make sure that everything he's achieved. Unfortunately, that's not enough. Our common objective should be to include nuclear energy in so-called taxonomy and to contribute to it both from European Union funds and from the means of our modernisation fund, which makes up emission allowances fees. There is no reason for this resource, i.e. the core, which has the least environmental impact, not to be included in the European Union support programme. All we have to do is look at the electricitymap.org website. On Monday, February 8, at 16 o'clock, France's emissions amounted to 91 grams of CO2 per kilowatt hour. French nuclear energy ran at 60 per cent of national electricity consumption. By comparison, at the same time in Germany, CO2 emissions were 455 grams per kilowatt hour, 91 - 455, five times more. Nuclear power plants in Germany, the rest of which have not yet been shut down within their Energiewende, covered 12 percent, wind 14, photovoltaics 2.6, i.e. renewables did not work in the weather conditions that are here in Europe at the beginning of February, and the rest of the energy supplied coal, gas, i.e. at the price of five times more CO2 production and, of course, imports. If Germany shuts down all nuclear power plants, which still have twice as much power as the Czech nuclear resources after the famous statements made by German politicians prior to the reduction, it will become a country that, by virtue of energywende's policy, will put 6 trillion crowns in the development of the RES and investments. Huge amounts, huge money, and it will have in the appropriate weather, and that is probably another thing, large surpluses from the production of photovoltaics. That's another pain in renewables. If conditions are appropriate, the wind blows, the sun shines, there are excesses of energy, which brings into this such a problem that energy is sold at negative prices, which means that the energy user, the one who collects, does not have to pay anything, receives money on the other hand. It's anti-sensual, per capita, but unfortunately, it is. The idea emerges, and we will meet it again in the recent future, that overproduction of electricity, which means chaos at prices, can solve the building of energy storage. I am not saying that energy storage in microconditions of individual family houses, their photovoltaic installations and smart batteries for storage and consumption, is not good, it is, of course, good, let everyone build themselves for their own money and then let them manage the electricity, but we need to realize that large energy storage devices can solve the question of the need of tens of minutes of consumption when they can unplug those active resources. I used to count it here, and it showed that if we wanted to satisfy the Czech Republic's hourly consumption, if no other sources were possible, just from the energy stored in the battery, the capacity of the battery would cost 250 billion crowns per hour, for the whole day it would be 6 trillion - three of our budgets. Those are the huge prices that the leaders, the supporters of OZ, are not well aware of. Germany is always an example for us, but here I think we should look very carefully at it, his problems with Energiewende. In Germany, Energiewende no longer has the massive French support she had a few years ago, and some media call it Germany's biggest mistake since World War II. In Germany, they want to bet on construction and operationally relatively very expensive steam-gas power plants on Russian gas. Germany's demand for gas, even though they trust the pipeline here, which is building up contrary to the allies' opinion, can mean a rise in gas prices, even for the Němec, but also for us, because, as we well know, our energy system is directly linked and connected, I think economically, with the German system. Our power supply is being purchased at the Leipzig Stock Exchange. Importing gas from Russia - yes, I think that everyone who wants to replace our coal resources with gas must say: if we want to replace our coal resources with gas instead of a core, we must say where we are going to get the gas from. We'll take gas from Russia under conditions that the Rus as suppliers will give us. So it must be realized that it is not just a question of security to discuss and doubt Russia's participation in the Dukovan completion tender, and here I, of course, as a man who has lived for 40 years in communism, have a significant distrust of Russia as a force to be relied upon for our security, on the contrary, but also gas can bring these dangers. Ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of replacing coal with gas, in addition to this economic and security issue, we must also consider the environmental issue, which therefore significantly disqualifies the gas and basically puts it on an equal footing with coal. Gas leaks in mining, gas leaks in transport, these are all things that, when counted, the ecological footprint of the gas is actually comparable to the coal power plants - if, of course, they have undergone modernization so that their ecological values are in line with the requirements that Europe places on coal power plants. Austria, that's a similar case. Blackout, which threatened January 8th - there were again some problems with the supplies from the Balkans - just saved our deliveries from Czech power plants, including Temelín. [[11.30 hours]] So if we want to make some recommendations now, of course we have to consider all the pros and cons. We have to say that if we don't decide today, but I think this is going to happen, the efforts to build nuclear capacity in our country must be done by the government better than before. I think it is necessary to correct the mistake that the government made when it abolished the Temelín tender. In my opinion, there needs to be an institute that lobbies in the best sense for the completion of the power plant in Temelín, just as Dukovan's supporters very successfully lobbied, who were more successful in this regard, say, than we Jihočech Bohemia, who unfortunately could not maintain the completion of Temelín. Ladies and gentlemen, I would conclude my speech by perhaps proving here that renewables cannot save our energy, that relying on them is very tricky and dangerous, that we need nuclear resources, namely not only in the construction of a block in Dukovany, but also in the need for building a block in Temelín, South Bohemia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u31	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník for his speech. Mr Lipavský will wait because Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr. Jan Čižinský, came forward with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, Mr President, to the situation before, and I would actually like to ask what I did wrong in this situation and why you spoke about the exit from the hall in connection with my speech, because I have taken a factual point, and I have only responded to Mr Onderka, through you. So I would ask what happened, what I did wrong, why you were talking about freaking out, and if something really happened here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u33	I can't get out unless I'm relieved. But I think we solved it by voting on your proposal. There was a meeting this morning, and we agreed that we would take very hard care of compliance with the Rules of Procedure. And now we will continue with the performance by Mr. Lipavský. [[This is Deputy Chizhinski.]] So please, you have the floor one more time on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u34	Thank you. Again, then. Actually, I didn't get it. By voting, the Rules of Procedure were granted because I proposed a procedural proposal. But I'd like to... After all, this did not solve the fact that you were talking about leaving the hall, the abuse of a factual remark, and the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So I'd just like to know what I did wrong, that you talked about it. Because when there was an agreement that we would follow the Rules of Procedure very strictly, I just support it, I sign. And so I'd like an explanation of what went wrong here in your eyes, that you were talking about getting out of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u35	Mr. Ambassador, if you have a motion to object to the President's procedure, say so. Otherwise, I will not report to the press debate on 966 and talk about something else. That's my position. So I would continue with Mr Lipavský's speech. If this point ends, I'd be happy to do it among the points. Mr. Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u36	Mr President - Excuse me? [[The President: Leo Luzar will be ready.]] [[The President: Leo Luzar will be ready.]] Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the third reading of the low-carbon law, the government bill on measures to move the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and other measures related to this. The main point that I will try to convey today during my contribution and support it with a set of arguments is that there has not been a sufficient debate on this matter, and it is therefore not appropriate for us to vote on this law today. The debate on the core has many layers, it has many planes in which it moves, and there are two fundamental pillars of argument. One is security, geopolitical security, which means who we want to implement such a project with and with which partner, and this has already been heard repeatedly. And the second plane is the plane of economics, if that thing, the project pays off, or who pays for it. First of all, there is agreement that nuclear energy belongs to the energy mix of the Czech Republic. This match is quite broad. Of course, there are groups and political parties that reject nuclear energy as such. It is to some extent a legitimate view. We can see that, for example, in Germany, Austria, this view prevailed, and it did not prevail in the Czech Republic. For example, if our party is sometimes accused of being anti-nuclear, I can assure you: this is not how we think about it. We think about it in terms of security and economics. However, what we are experiencing today in the Czech Republic is the pressure to implement the Dukovan project - and I would not agree that this bill cannot be described as lex Dukovany. It's lex Dukovany. It's being prepared as part of one particular project. The State has already signed two of the four planned contracts signed with ČEZ. The state has hired various consultancy firms, legal advice, a company to promote interests with the European Commission. There's a pretty clear map of how these things are supposed to proceed. However, the motive is not to do the whole order as best as possible, but the motive is to do it for one particular company. We are more or less witnessing the murder of the centre of the castle doorknob in the Czech Republic. It's just reality. That's what it is, and that's what it's all about. I would very much like Minister Havlíček to come forward and try to disprove it with an argument. I will now put forward arguments as to why this is not the case. As far as the economic side of the matter is concerned, and I will start because we will still hear about geopolitics here, as far as the economic side of the matter is concerned, our President has come forward and we have publicly given a set of requirements after the meeting on 27 January to make the contract really competitive, so that they have a chance to sign up with a relevant offer - they will sign up, but so that the offer is relevant, so that they have time to draw it up and that their project has a chance to stand. What are the demands? These are the demands that point to the fact that we want to extend the duration of the tender. Not seven months at 1,200 megawatts, which, of course, Rosatom has prepared de facto, because it is their main product. Have EDF, Westinghouse, KHNCP, South Koreans have bigger reactors because the condition is not unsolvable. [[11.40 hours]] If it is designed to combine reactors in a Dukovan location in such a way that, for example, one reactor stops a little earlier, then it turns out that there is enough water to cool down. If a larger reactor is built, but the first five years of operation for example, that is to say, during the planned co-operation, it will be operated on a lower power, i.e. it will need less water, and then one of the older reactors will stop and then it can be used for full capacity, then there is no problem to compete more power. It is also argued that more power cannot be competed on account of the fact that the components are too large and that they could not be transported to the Dukovan site. I say let the contractor deal with it, suggest how those parts will be delivered. Perhaps it will pay off - maybe it will save a few billions, if, for a much smaller amount of money, some roads are repaired, the roads spread. And the studies are quite simply done, so it's up to them. The last argument I'm hearing is why it can't be a higher power is that a power source is attached to the network. I would therefore like to have a relevant study submitted to us by ČEPS, which connects the resources where they would take it apart. Because in a situation where we pull the tender, that means it won't be the seven months or now a year, as Vice Prime Minister Havlíček said after the meeting of the Presidents, it has another effect, which is absolutely essential, and that is the involvement of the Czech industry in the entire contract. In a situation where historically one of the companies is doing projects, there are six reactors, which means Rosatoma, of course also has connections to Czech companies and has full support from the state, because for the Russian Federation the issue of core is not an economic matter, for them it is a question of political influence, that means full support from all spheres, just those companies have citizens, they are promised. We often hear about the so-called Czech road, which means that we will build a power plant and supply only the reactor and the relevant parts, for example. This is an illusion, many times in the media from different sides it has been said that we will probably not build it this way today. Not only did the structure of the Czech industry change, she also changed the safety criteria and requirements for the implementation of these buildings. It's all quite complicated. This is referred to by our request that the construction be carried out so-called key. Have the supplier give us the whole thing, guarantee it at a fixed price and a key. So what we think is absolutely essential is that it doesn't become more tanning. So it wouldn't be the solar mess from 2010 in a variable form for one company without a price cap, and it would eventually be paid by electricity customers if the price went wrong, by paying for the breaker. So it is absolutely crucial for us to have a price ceiling that the state of CEZ, because there is no other company in the Czech Republic than CEZ, which would be willing and able to prepare such a project based on how the law is now designed, how it is prepared. Without this condition, we certainly cannot support the law as a whole. All our demands and conditions aim to make the project feasible, to be sustainable in the long run and to pay off. We approach this in no way: we want to do everything we can to prevent the construction from being realized. However, the law is not in such a form as to make the project feasible and not become the proverbial black hole for money. Another absolutely crucial and key parameter of whether the whole project is economically advantageous or not is the price of money. Mr. Vice Prime Minister has repeatedly argued that we must invite as many suppliers as possible. We're talking three versus five. We heard a call from the Trade Union Confederation, we heard a call from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Czech Union of Industry and Transport: Invite everyone. Invite everyone. That was the morning of the 27th. Three hours later, we learned that China was falling out, which was an interesting moment for the whole case. However, this is a false dilemma, and I need to refute this false dilemma. Firstly, the key price will not affect whether you are talking to three or five potential suppliers, because in such a number it is more or less a competitive dialogue. They really don't compete with each other at a price like when you're somewhere in the stock market or in the market. It is about how the state prepares quality conditions for these suppliers. [[Member Lipavsky is losing his voice, apologizing. Mrs Cernochová brings him a bottle of water.]] Thank you, President Černochová for the water. It is about what conditions the state will prepare for suppliers. I was talking about the time limit here, about the reactor's power, and then it has a big impact on what the cost of the key is. That means we're gonna build you a 140 billion, 150 billion power plant. And here we're playing, let's say, about units of up to tens of billions in price difference. But whether the whole matter pays off - and also the member of ČEZ's management, Mr Cyrani, or spoke about it quite clearly in an interview for the IROZHLAS - the price of money will be crucial, for how much the investor, state or ČEZ will borrow for the construction. And that is absolutely shocking, because the government is still unclear here. And that is what was said by the Prime Minister on 27 January that it is to be 100% state funding at 2%. And I ask myself a question, and once again there is no answer from the Minister, how it will be financed. And if we do not know how it will be financed, how can we approve a law that is a direct part of that financial model? We've been saying it, and we've been saying it for years, let the whole state do it. [[Once again, MP Lipavsky is losing his voice.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna take a break now, and I'm gonna finish the second part of my paper when my voice comes back a little bit, and I'm gonna talk about security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u37	Okay. That was Mr Lipavský. He has announced that he is reporting for the debate again. Leo Luzar is now registered and after him is a colleague of Černohorský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that my colleague Lipavský has been affected by voice indisposition, I would like to hear his speech in a comprehensive form, because my colleague Lipavský, through you, has not failed again. The project, which repeatedly lectures us here, has two starting points. The first way out is: I do not want nuclear energy in the Czech Republic. This is completely legitimate and I personally know many people who have similar views. They're not hiding him, they're fighting for him, they're not looking for proxy problems. If a colleague of Lipavský, by your means, had admitted to this microphone that his aim was to fight nuclear power, I would have understood him perfectly and understood him and we could talk about it a lot. The second moment in this matter, which is obvious, is, therefore, if the nuclear energy were, I would like it to be Western energy, if I briefly use the term that is widely perceived, the difference between East and West. [[11.50 hours]] A colleague of Lipavský sees salvation in the Western model, and all the time he tries to call the Eastern model unreliable, inconvenient, unscientific, unable to realize, he simply adds all the "no" to that speech. Sometimes I feel that if they build a nuclear power plant or blocks of a nuclear power plant the bad, in the quotes of an evil Russia, for example in Slovakia, Hungary, in other countries of the world - I will not be here to advertise where the evil Rus are building everything - the evil Putin will certainly tune the generators so that all the citizens in transformers can play the Russian anthem. [[Fun.]] It's just the way it's gonna be. That feeling, I'm sorry, sometimes I do. But we live in a global world today, we live in global competition and in a global security world. My colleague Lipavský, through you, Mr Vice-President, is pleased to draw attention to the security risks. But precisely because, of course, there are security risks in this world, all the projects that are being prepared are being examined from these security aspects. Even Hungary could not afford to implement power plants in this way if it had any doubt about the security risk of this construction. We must always realize that we are not alone in the world, we are not the belly of the world and we do not know all the reason of the world. We here in the small Czech Republic are the only ones who know exactly where the enemy is, the only ones who know exactly what the risk is, and we are able to name it. So much - and it is a pity that we will not hear or hear the whole lecture of my colleague Lipavský, because he will certainly be strongly focused on security in that direction against the East. I could still talk here about the fact that there is another Eastern Association - now I say, I do not know whether to talk about Asia as such, but let us leave it aside - my colleague Lipavský will surely complete the additional security risk of two global players in the world in nuclear energy and why he sees it so. I will try to concentrate on what I really wanted to say here, and this is the position of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on nuclear energy and the construction of Dukovan as a whole. Since the beginning of its existence, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has supported nuclear energy as the basis of the energy mix of the Czech Republic. Not only because we have a long-standing tradition of nuclear energy, that we are one of the few countries that have once been able to produce and implement a complete nuclear power plant; unfortunately, over time we have lost this ability and knowledge, but yet we still have companies that are at least able to deliver some of the components in top, world-class quality. We have always stood behind these manufacturers as KSČM and tried to support them. Among other things, maybe even a little smiley - historically I will pick up - our efforts to supply nuclear energy facilities in parts of the world, and our colleagues have often warned, it's a security risk, he's the Iranian... But let us remember that it was not the completion of this power plant, which, among other things, is already standing and producing with the help of the Western world, the safe Western world, which knows exactly where the risk is greatest, but it was a Czech company that was supposed to deliver products there and which lost the opportunity to participate in this top-notch reference, because nuclear energy is always the top reference for all companies to supply components and parts. And we should also take this into account when discussing this energy investment, because there are still companies in the Czech Republic that would like to have that reference as suppliers of nuclear technologies. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia did not prefer the model of financing that is presented to us. Our idea was first to acquire CEZ as a state-owned company, in other words to pay minority shareholders to decide on their own future, whether it concerns the core and other matters, because it was shown that minority shareholders, of course, look at their personal interests, economic interests rather than the interests of the state and the whole within the energy strategy. They can't be blamed. Historically, in my opinion, it was a big mistake that CEZ had begun to privatize, but that step could have been taken. The state took responsibility and decided to go the other way. We see it, we tolerate it, we take it as a way out, maybe even the minister here would tell me that it's more economically advantageous - I won't judge it, I don't want to go back to it. I just want to point out that we have been monitoring this situation for a long time and we are trying to evaluate it for the benefit of citizens, because energy, no matter what we think, is strategic and will always remain strategic in the future. And here I want to draw attention to one risk that hasn't been mentioned here at all, and that's rescinding possible completion. Here we have heard suggestions that it should move forward, put more time into tender. But we've been talking about this for years. There's already been one failure in writing the tender, let's just say. It's not something on a green meadow that's being made up. Here it follows the steps that have been taken and failed to succeed. We can remember different conspiracy theories, but this isn't about who's responsible, it's about the fact that we don't have Dukovan building here and we need nuclear power to meet Green Deal's energy mix and future challenges. That's the basis. And when I mention the problems that Green Deal is causing, or the exit from the core within Europe, that should be a warning to us. To us, politicians, but mainly citizens of the Czech Republic, to realize what the problem is and what the game is about. Last year, at the end of the year Sweden disconnected its nuclear power plant Ringhals I. The Švéd probably applauded. This is the tendency that took place in Germany, when the core is disconnected: hooray, we protect our citizens, we provide security, and all the benefits that should have been stressed. Today Sweden is in a situation where there is a danger of blackout, of lack of electricity, of importing it from those dirty, ugly coal power plants, and do you know why? 'Cause it's freezing 'cause solariums don't work, and it doesn't blow, and they have a problem. The problem is so far away that I remember the situation 50 years ago, when Romania had similar problems of lack of electricity during the previous government, when it had to unplug, they were looking for investigations and savings, and all of Europe was looking at how it was possible in the 20th century that the country could not regulate energy balance. Today, in the 21st century, a state of technology, such as Sweden, cannot control the energy regulation of its network and calls on citizens to reduce, for example, vacuuming. Do you understand that? Not me! In the 21st century! Just because they have succumbed to the pressures of shutting down the core, political pressures - not economic, not technical, political pressures - they have put their citizens in a situation today that they need to consider whether they should suck out crumbs in the carpet or freeze because electric heating is quite popular in Sweden. We can also tell ourselves why it is: because nuclear energy is not only the production of electricity, but it is also the heating industry. Those are heat sources and other things. But I don't want to talk to this law about the area of heating, that would be for another two-hour debate. I want to say that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has long lived at the core, dealt with it and considered it the basis of its economic policy within the Czech Republic and Czech citizens. We are and should remain an important producer of nuclear energy in Europe, and that is what our policy is going to do. That is why I can say that we will support this proposal. We will also support the only amendment tabled by the Minister as a proposal to postpone the effectiveness of this law. We will not join other proposals because we see in them the attempt to block the future of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic and cause collapse in the Czech energy system, which in the current energy mix has the core as an irreplaceable source of electricity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u39	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. I now have two factual points before my colleague Černohorský, Radek Koten and Jan Lipavský. Now, here's Radek Koten's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. After hearing the general debate on this point, the whole situation has such a special impression on me. We're confusing basically providing electricity for our citizens with some political seance on this subject, but it's a purely technical seance. We need to secure energy for future generations, and we all know very well that building a nuclear power plant is not a task for one or two years, but for a long time. That's why, and I have reports from Dukovan that this decision is being delayed completely unbearably and currently extending the service life that is in Dukovany, it will cost us quite enough money to build a power plant that will work again in the meantime. There is also one very important thing in the technical parameters, and that is the cooling of the nuclear power plant. This means that from a technical point of view it is not possible to cool down the higher performance of some producers, who supply, for example, only huge reactors, and there is basically not enough water. So I hope that it will not exceed any political interest to exclude one or the supplier, but that in the end it will win the technical reason to make it work, so that it is safe not to twist the fuel rods, but to ensure that the power plant works reliably, as the power plants in the Czech Republic, such as Dukovany or Temelín, have worked so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u41	Thank you. Mr Lipavský will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Luzar. It is your Members who propose a law to protect the Czech language, so I suggest you take a look at the log of my speech, which was determined by the fact that it is definitely nothing against the core. Even our political party has found a consensus that the core can be part of the energy mix of the Czech Republic. But the law, as it is now built, and the government's progress, as it is now carrying out these actions, is more or less killing. And that's the idea that when I lectured, it kind of dried up in my throat. I am not hiding that I am opposed to nuclear technology supplying Russian and Chinese companies to the Czech Republic. And when you spoke - the MP left - when you talked about how great the delivery of Rosatoma is, I would just mention that the nearest Czech Republic Rosatoma has built a nuclear power plant in Belarus, Ostrovec, further built in Finland, there is not finished, in Hungary, there you can see a beautiful plot. Moreover, the Maďar still signed up for an extremely disadvantageous financing agreement. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that the Czech Republic does not need and is sufficiently judgmental, including at the level of the government and all other institutions, that we are not going this way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u43	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u44	Thank you for the floor. I think that the dispute over the participation of Russian and Chinese companies in this tender is not a dispute between supporters and opponents of nuclear energy, at least not by civil democrats. I have the opportunity to work all the time in the Government Committee on the Construction of a New Nuclear Bloc, and I think the Minister can confirm that the Civil Democrats have always been constructive about this in order to build new nuclear blocks as quickly as possible. It must be repeated at the outset, although it has already been said in the debate that the construction of a new block in Dukovany does not actually solve the current energy mix, piece by piece. [[unintelligible]] And that's actually a minimalist solution. I think our ambition should be to remember the possibility of new blocks in Temelín, because the preparation and progress of tender and construction, it is a long run, it will affect the term of office of three, four, maybe five governments, and a great political consensus is important. At this point, I would like to appreciate that there is at least a great political consensus in the Chamber of Deputies that we need this nuclear block. It is a good thing that, for example, the Prime Minister has completely changed his mind about funding, and I acknowledge that, because who remembers his performance about two years ago, he said: The state will not give a crown, let it be financed by ČEZ and there will be no guarantees from the state. For us, I also want to appreciate the contractual relationship that the state concluded with ČEZ. We were satisfied with the principles that the treaty contained, and we also said that at all the meetings, either with the Minister or with the Prime Minister. Now for the feud. There is no dispute between government or government and communists against opposition parties. That would actually be a standard political question. The government has set up an ad hoc advisory body to assess the security risks of this construction. The government approached a total of six institutions - three secret services, the SAO, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. This task force unanimously, unambiguously and strongly recommended that the government remove Russian and Chinese companies from the tender, in principle also at consortium level. So at this point, the government is not acting according to the recommendations of its advisory bodies, according to the recommendations of the security community and also two ministries. What the Social Democrats have proposed today - who knows Czech fairy tales: neither naked nor dressed. In a word, they say that those companies are not supposed to be there, and they are prepared to vote against this principle being enshrined in the law, and they have invented a resolution, an accompanying resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm very skeptical about the institute at all. Once we have open rules of procedure, I would even ban it. Whatever the separate points, the House may adopt any resolution there, but voting after we pass the law, about some ten, fifteen, five, two, one accompanying resolution makes no sense, because the text of the law is crucial. But if anyone wants to have a separate point, wants to debate, wants to put some tasks into the government's future, why not, but it should be at the moment when the bill is voted or voted. The attitude of our club is actually simple. We are in favour of nuclear energy, but without the participation of Russian and Chinese companies. We will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by our fellow Members, Mr Lipavskýý and Mr Žáček. If the amendment passes, we will support the bill as a whole if it does not pass, so unfortunately we cannot support it. I think that's a clear position. At the same time, in those debates that have been going on in recent weeks and months, I do not think that the solution is to delay the tender. I consider this to be the worst solution at this time, and it is up to the government whether it will hear the recommendations of the security community and its expert group, which has established itself, which, paradoxically, the opposition or part of the opposition is behind, to be precise or to proceed against the recommendation. Then I ask myself, what was the point of this job if the government doesn't want to hear it and doesn't want to follow it? I can speculate on the real reasons. I understand that political parties that are clearly pro-Russian in their programme support this, even though I disagree. But I do not understand that the government refuses to follow the recommendations of its experts, not the voices of the opposition. [[12.10 hours]] And then a few myths I'd like to disprove. Firstly, we need the participation of Russian and Chinese companies in order to increase the pressure on the price in order to get a better offer. If anyone really thinks that Russian and Chinese companies are going to give us a real market offer, without political calculus, without Russian or Chinese governments promoting a dumping price at any time to negotiate it either in additions or rather in political demands, they aren't telling us the truth, and let them at least have the courage to come and say: We think that Russia and China are going to give us a really market-friendly offer, like other companies from Western Europe, from our allies. I don't think so, I think it's a fairy tale and it's a false argument that won't stand. Second argument. By the way, this argument is also refuted by the government authority for construction, which clearly - it was also publicly, so I am not releasing any information from the government committee's meetings, which are not public - which clearly said that the participation of Russian and Chinese companies has no effect on the price. On the contrary, what may affect the price is the length the government will provide to the tenderers for the preparation of the offer. We were interpreting at the last meeting with the Prime Minister so that the time would be at least 12 months. The shorter the time, the less accurate the offer, the more cotton wool, more reserves, the less realistic the price will be. I also think from the experience of building nuclear power plants around the world that we should realistically say that, with a high degree of probability, the term will eventually be longer and that the price will be higher. That's what I think is experience from all countries, from all nuclear blocks and nuclear power plants. Now to the very principle that is in the proposed law. For us, I say that principle is basically good. We can debate individual parameters, but we think it's basically good, and here I can commend the government for us. Of course, we can all speculate about what the price of electricity will be in 2038, 2039, 2040, maybe we could write it on some paper today, seal it somewhere, and our successors can open it in 18, 20 years and then laugh. Really, I don't think anybody's able to make a good guess. It can estimate trends, but we don't know what energy prices are going to be in 18 years. It may seem awfully far away to you, but the very term that the government has set itself with our support, for the completion of the construction and launch of the nuclear bloc, is actually tense. Some may feel that it is not true that we are still 15 or 16 years old, but the term is actually very tense, so we should not hesitate, so the government should take into account the recommendations of its experts, so the government should also take into account the views of the opposition parties, because, as I said, the problem will be solved by several other governments, not only our government since 2021, since autumn, but also those governments that will come after it. Great political consensus is extremely important for such a large project. This cannot be done after each election, starting over and over again, because then there would be an acute lack of electricity in the Czech Republic, and no one really wants that. And the last thing we should bring up and put in a rational debate about future energy prices and, for example, the impact of construction costs, and in particular the financing of the nuclear block, in order to realise that we are talking about about 10 percent of total production. This means that each of us can take any example from another activity, say whether there is room for such passionate debates by just 10 percent when you have so many unknowns. I think - and the government is aware of this, it needs to be said, but I would say, with our consent or in line with our view - that the price of funding is extremely important. Originally, the agreement on the 70 percent model was the state, 30% ČEZ, and the Prime Minister came up with a new plan at the January meeting. We would like to have some more detailed calculations on this new plan, but the answer to who actually pays for it is basically simple and we should say it quite openly: it will be paid by the customers. That's how it works, and no one else will pay for it. Whether it is from the state budget - who puts money in the state budget: customers and taxpayers - or in another form. So in any case, the honest answer is that customers and taxpayers will pay for it. And we're supposed to do everything we can to make that price reasonable. But the price of energy security is much higher than the price of one kilowatt. That is our firm conviction, and therefore, with these views and with these approaches that I have presented at this time, we also approach the plan and project for the construction of new nuclear blocks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský is now in the debate with a factual remark. Mr Cernohorský is also registered, but the electronic application takes precedence. Mr. Ambassador, are you going to step forward with the facts now? [[Agreed.]] Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u46	Thank you. I'd take the liberty of doing one more de facto thing, and then I'll get off properly. In fact, I have the need to respond to Mr Leo Luzar, who mentioned the Temelin tender. And that there is no need now to extend the deadline for the tender. Well, you know what? The tender was on Temelín, not on Dukovany, which means it's a completely different location, and it was competed under the Public Procurement Act as a typical contract. This is a completely different process, we're ten years away, it's completely incomparable and incomparable. There is one thing where we agree with Mr Luzar, let us say, on a framework basis, and that is when the Member spoke about increasing the share of the state in ČEZ to 100 percent. That's not what we're saying, but we're telling CEZ to build the power plant to build the state, so let a new company be built. She exists, let the state buy this company out, and then it is achieved that the risk of this company goes to the state, has the same rating as the State has, and will be able to borrow it for that kind of money. At the same time, it will not be necessary to conclude a complex, complicated legal relationship on the purchase of electricity from that source. So that's where we're in part ideally. Thank you for the floor, and now I would like to continue my contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u47	A factual point has ended, and now it is your turn in the general debate, Mr Member. [[Member Lipavsky is leaving for notes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u48	Thank you for the floor. I didn't assume that a factual remark - or that it would work out that way - couldn't always be. There may be other factual points. Thank you for the floor. By the time I got my vote in the first post, I had more or less gone through most of the economic arguments and devoted myself to why the investor was to become a semi-state company of ČEZ. [[12.20 hours]] And now I would like to continue with the other foot, the second pillar, and that is the question of security, the strategic question that is raised here. Mr Leo Luzar has told me that I do not like Russia and so on. We are talking about building a new source of nuclear energy, and this project will define the form of the Czech nuclear sector for decades in advance, the follow-up chain of companies, suppliers, how higher education disciplines that are engaged in various engineering activities - we have a whole faculty at the Czech Technical University dedicated to nuclear engineering, that is, applied science. It is absolutely essential for us to say with whom we want to enter into a partnership, in which direction we want these university cooperation and these trade chains to be established. That is indeed a political question. It is not a question of who will offer a better price in the contract. President Stanjura mentioned very well the document produced by the Security Group for the Nuclear Committee, the VJNJZ, and they are likely to be authors or some of the institutions will probably be authors of some of the documents mentioned by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. I believe this is based on the fact that I cannot imagine what other institutions in the Czech Republic could produce such documents. However, I have already said this here during the debate with Mr Sklenák: to make an opinion and evaluate our relations with individual countries, you do not need to be a spy or a secret agent. Just open the paper, browse a little further where the foreign section is, and you'll find out how things are. This is an argument that I say quite often when someone wonders why I have a problem establishing closer and strategic relations with the Russian Federation or with China. So there are also two amendments that I have tabled, which we will then vote here, which effectively prevent companies from participating in the key parts of the tender from Russia and China. There's no point in talking about elimination. Let's not talk about excluding someone. The Czech Republic, together with ČEZ, selects its partners. We will address them, they will be addressed, and if no one is addressed, they can't even feel offended. The Russian Federation has long regarded NATO as hostile, we are part of NATO, so it considers us as an enemy in its strategic documents and in its strategic concepts. If you look at the state of bilateral relations with the Russian Federation, you don't get a lot of reading there, premieres may have seen each other some ten years ago, foreign ministers alike. The fact that the President and his surroundings have close ties to the Kremlin should not define the foreign policy of the Czech Republic, but the extent to which they are willing to talk to our executive also indicates the state of these relations. I do not think that it is necessary here in plenary to dwell on the individualities, the case that are taking place between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, but I would expect these issues to be dealt with by the relevant committees. To some extent I understand Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček's argument when he says: this law does not address security. I get it. Yes, of course, this law actually deals with a small part of the entire nuclear project. But why is the House resisting any debate on this issue? What is the state of the discussion of security, associated geopolitical security and security risks, linked to the nuclear project within the Security Committee? Well, none. It's on the program and it's in a car waiting for the government to deliver some materials; the government isn't sending anything. Why did the foreign committee reject my proposal three or four times to address nuclear-related safety issues, nuclear energy? And I'm not talking about technical questions. I am talking about the fact that the Czech Republic is inherently dependent on energy imports. We import oil, we import nuclear fuel, we have our own coal, but we know that we will eliminate this coal, renewables as far as hydro power plants are concerned, we will not build any more windmills and solars, nor will we build much more, and will certainly cover all consumption, thus the basis of energy security of the Czech Republic, we know that in the structure of our industry, heavy industry and household consumption, the import of these energy resources from abroad will always be. This is an extremely and truly foreign policy issue, yet MEPs of the foreign committee have refused to deal with the question repeatedly. Logically, then, there is probably nothing left - and this is, of course, a government majority, as was not rejected by the opposition's votes, to be clear. Same with the Security Committee. Of course, it is absolutely appropriate to look at what the situation would mean for the security of the Czech Republic, if Rosatom won it, he would get a budget of CZK 160 billion, the budget, people from the Russian Federation would start coming here, deciding which companies would get and not get contracts, so the degree of corruption associated with it, and we know how business relations in the Russian Federation work, it is absolutely appropriate to deal with it. Another matter, when I leave the purely security area, is really the vision and direction of the Czech Republic, where we want to see the Czech Republic in ten, 20 years, where we want to see the sector, the whole field. And that is absolutely crucial, and that is what we decide by this law. Acting like it's not, it's totally, totally fake. So I consider it to be the only possible solution - and I say this here for several times - to interrupt the negotiation of this law, because if the government announces the tender in those parameters as we hear about it today by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, there is no doubt that we are going to be in huge trouble - because this matter will be realized without consensus across the political spectrum, and the consensus is on a number of questions, Mr Vice Prime Minister, we know that there is no problem to make the core, but let's go ahead and drag on geopolitics, let's make it clear how these relations will be, and then it can be written out. Nobody's saying it has to be this government, but if it's published today, it threatens to be in such a state that either the next government will have to stop - and then we'll get to the point that it'll probably be the end of nuclear energy, and it fascinates me that the industry doesn't realize that it's not going to be aware of the industry's organisations that are expressing themselves - if this thing rushes and doesn't make it a consensus, then it can de facto make a stop, it can cause a major damage to the whole industry. [[12.30 hours]] I will now briefly comment on the two amendments. Their acceptance does not solve the whole matter completely, but at least it will clarify the question in the geopolitical area. And in my opinion, if the government really wants to secure this source, it should be heard because most of the arguments have been refuted. You guys have never come up with an argument that's gonna put us out of line. At least he didn't speak today. The most elegant solution is, in my opinion, an amendment that works with a multilateral international agreement on government procurement. It is quite obvious that if we are creating an order here with government support, it is appropriate to demand a degree of reciprocity. And when we look at the explanatory report - I recommend to everyone who talks about business with Russia and China to look at the explanatory report of my amendment. It's based on the BusinessInfo website. This is an information portal operated by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It serves to inform an entrepreneur about the conditions on the market when he wants to do business abroad. So that you can see all the obstacles China and Russia put to companies when they want to apply for a public contract. It's really fascinating reading creativity. In Russia, for example, if you want to deliver trolleybuses and sign in some supplier from Kazakhstan, you are automatically excluded and so on. This applies to engineering, of course it applies to the security sector. It's a legitimate procedure for these countries. I can't criticize them not opening their markets, but we should think about it, we should think very well about opening our markets to them. If this amendment is adopted, it will significantly increase the quality of the entire law. The second amendment makes it more or less the duty of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to do what is already contained in the legal order on the platform of the Constitutional Security Act. But there's no doubt that if this were mentioned in the law, then the Ministry of Industry and Trade will have to deal with it, it will have to comment on it, ask for opinions. This will increase the chances that problematic companies, namely Russia and China, will not be invited into the tender. I would still like to make a brief comment here on how I have acted personally on this matter. I've been communicating a lot with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I appreciate the strict approach, I appreciate that my questions have always been answered in a timely and rather exhaustive manner. In fact, it was offered the opportunity to look at some non-public documents, namely procurement documents. I welcome this helpful step, and I believe that this is precisely a hint of the approach that the Ministry of Industry and Trade should take to the opposition overall when dealing with unclear issues, because I really believe that these issues can be discussed, a consensus can be found. There's no need to force it. The government in the Czech Republic is somehow transformed every four years or after every election and there is a project implemented for long years in advance. However, what the government has already failed to meet is simply a majority in the Chamber of Deputies who refused to deal with it. We didn't get to the key government documents, the regime documents. Even the political party chairmen did not get to do so. I find that absolutely fascinating that you're keeping this to yourself, if that's what you're arguing in the debate at the same time. We will clearly support the accompanying resolution of the ČSSD and I would like the Minister to speak here at least once and comment in some way on the arguments and questions that have been raised here. As a result of the fact that there was no debate that there was no debate on the committees, apart from the Economic Committee, that we could not discuss this in the Foreign Committee, in the Security Committee, that you tried to drag it through the Chamber of Deputies, first reading here at seven o'clock in a hurry, second reading - we're going to have an extraordinary meeting, those attempts to force it, they're not going to lead to the fact that we're not going to discuss these things, that we're not going to talk about them. I'm not making these topics up, obstruction would look a lot different. But it really is absolutely necessary to discuss it, calmly, to call for another round table. [[There are objections from government benches that this is already the third reading.]] It's the third reading, Mr. Ambassador, but right now I'm arguing that there was no debate in those other readings. It's logical that if it didn't happen, it's going to come out here. That's what I was gonna say, that's what I was gonna argue. So I don't know why you wonder if you're actively participating in the fact that - I'm sorry that I'm not speaking through the President, I'm talking to government benches as a whole - it's no wonder that the debate is now longer, unless the debate is taking place on other platforms where it doesn't take up so much time and space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I will leave it entirely to your assessment whether or not the debate that is being held is part of the third reading. In my opinion, it doesn't belong to other readings. The Rules of Procedure make this clear. I would just like to point out to my fellow pirát that we can discuss and vote on Wednesday and 14 o'clock at the third reading. I suggest we do so. So if you want to talk here for another hour, you have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u51	Thank you. It is now Mrs Langšádlová and the Chairman of the TOP 09 MP Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u52	The law is extremely important and important. I've been wondering if it's gonna be necessary to take a break. I'm just considering it so far. I'll be glad if there's no need to threaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u53	Thank you. Now, Mrs Langšádlová, whose electronic application takes precedence over Mr Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u54	Thank you for the floor. I've been at this point for several times. For several times, I have tried to place a point directly on the Government's information on the planned completion of the nuclear power plant on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. Some might say: it is only an economic matter, it concerns energy, even if it concerns this law and is called About measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy. But I firmly believe that this law also concerns our security. I firmly believe that this is related to our foreign policy orientation. It has to do with how the allies will perceive us in the future, it has to do with maintaining our sovereignty, freedom in the future, we will be a democratic country, firmly linked to the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. We cannot view the completion of a nuclear power plant simply as an economic project addressing some energy needs. In the last few months, I've been wondering what the motivation is. What's going on around us, anyway? Because the President is very inclined to undemocratic regimes - he even goes to China to learn how to manage society, we know that. But I have to admit, when the Prime Minister went to Hungary to learn how to manage the pandemic, I was still very, very shocked. He's gone to a country that is completely out of control of this crisis situation. And if we stop by Hungary. This is one of the countries that, although in the European Union, is in the North Atlantic alliance, but many allies are already perceived as unreliable partners. And one of the reasons is their decision to build their nuclear power plant in Paksi by Russia. [[12.40 hours]] It must be added that this decision was not happy either, because this power plant, this project, is very late. And it needs to be said that even if it were to happen, and I consider it totally unacceptable, to reach out to Russia or even to choose Russia, it will not lead to the construction of a nuclear block and to the provision of electricity that we should be interested in, because Russia, or Rosatoma, has ten power plants at the moment, it has two teams, and those buildings are simply significantly extended. So even for those who really want this capacity to be here, they should very much consider this question, although no longer for security, as well as for practical reasons. Sometimes it comes down to why we don't really care about calling Russia, because this isn't really about elimination, this is about addressing those companies. Sometimes even the Prime Minister or Vice Prime Minister use arguments: Look, Germany has built Nord Stream 2, or is building Nord Stream 2, the Francouz or Ital sometimes will get in touch with China. Well, it is our great weakness, the countries of the European Union, because we really can only cope with a situation where we will be united just against China and Russia for the future. But the difference between us and Germany is that Germany is fourth in the world's GDP share with 4 percent, and we are 44th in the 44th place with 0.25 percent and, of course, the population and political strength are different. And the cooperation between Russia and Germany, which unfortunately also has its historical connotations and we should follow this very closely for the future, is simply incomparable. The Czech Republic within the European Union is a medium-sized country, not a small one, but still, we are more of a smaller country in the world, and while we may not like cooperation between Germany and Russia, it will never have as devastating political consequences for Germany as it can have for us. I've already said it here yesterday: if you look into the Russian press, but also in the words of Russian officials, very often there is a transcription of history, even of the history which, for me, is certainly extremely sensitive, like 1968. It is clear from these statements that Russia, the Russian leaders, the current regime, still perceive our country as a sphere of influence. We really should discuss all the contexts here before this law is discussed at third reading. Unfortunately, this has not happened here, and that is also what colleagues have been talking about, although we have been asking for many months. For example, at the meeting of the Prime Minister and others with the parties' chairmen, the Vice Prime Minister changed twice during that day - and this has to do with this law, it is absolutely related to this law - twice changed the view of how this key construction should be financed, if 100%, if the guarantees, in what way. And it is quite clear that the financing must also be clarified before the selection procedure is launched, but I think it is also clear before the approval of this law. We have the right to this information because this information, or the decisions, as well as the economic decisions, will have an absolutely immediate effect on budgets. I am even convinced that, before any tender procedure is drawn up, the House of Deputies must discuss the method of financing directly, because the burden for the future of financing the completion of nuclear resources will simply be the burden that Members will decide on in several parliamentary periods in the Chamber of Deputies. We cannot go on without having this clarified. It must be said that I am also very concerned that the documents received by ČEZ at the meeting of the chairmen of the parliamentary parties were not accurate. I am very concerned that they have not been properly informed, have not received all the information and can be proved - and I am sorry, Mr Vice Prime Minister - that some of the information has been directly false. It was about times, it was about funds, and it involved, for example, the inclusion and comparison of nuclear power plants in those tables, which are in a different capacity than the one we should be asking for, and what was being announced there. This is also very disturbing. I have already talked about this several times, and that is the question of security, and that is the question that - and we are still talking about it - I am convinced that Russia and China should not simply be addressed because not only, as my colleague Lipavskýý said here, it is enough to open a newspaper and just look into the foreign languages, but precisely because it is not recommended by the intelligence and security community that has prepared the evidence for this. It is also unacceptable for me that the material, the original one in the Reserved regime, was not even available to the party chairmen. I don't know what you're hiding from them, I don't know what's leading you to this, but it's unacceptable because our safety should come first. It is also unacceptable for ČEZ, which has a signed contract with the State, in this contract ČEZ undertakes to project security requirements into the tender documentation. According to information that eventually got into the media, this did not happen completely. And it is not possible for ČEZ to fail to fulfil its obligation under the contract between the State and ČEZ and that the government, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade, responsible for it, do not respond, demand, demand and do not defend the security interests of the Czech Republic. Because all members of the government, whatever the department, I am convinced that their duty is to defend the security interests of the Czech Republic, even though they are sitting at the Ministry of Economics at the moment. I have also stressed several times here that it is not possible not to respect security interests at the same time and to proceed at the same time and to demand exemptions under Act 29a, the Public Procurement Act. I think that this is not possible from the point of view of our legislation, I believe that the Office for the Protection of Competition should also intervene, but then it is also no wonder that our project will not be successful because it will come at the level of the European Commission. In addition to what I said here, it would certainly be good to recall what came out in the IROZHLAS, when this information came into the hands of journalists and they processed it this way: "The design of tender documentation for the construction of new blocks of Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant according to the secret services and the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs does not take sufficient account of the security interests of the state. " And that is exactly what I said, and these documents prove that the security interests of the state defined in these documents, but some of them, unfortunately, do not receive political representation in their hands, do not take into account the security interests of the state. [[12.50 hours]] Mr Vice Prime Minister, you have said several times that you would like a political consensus, because there is no doubt that such strategically important and long-term projects require political consensus, so that, for example, as my colleague Marian Jurečka said the other day: If risky partners are approached, once we have a share in the government, we stop the project. This is not a reasonable way, it is not a sustainable project. It is therefore very important that political consensus be sought in such long-term strategic projects. In fact, Radiožurnál here says that he has obtained a key document, a list of essential comments that representatives of all the institutions mentioned together have written on the document, and recommend not to address risky candidates at all. And in May, according to Diary N, the government has already named Russia and China. Not us, the government, the government by choice. This is absolutely unimaginable to me. In fact, the government will accept its recommendations from security institutions, the government, in its decision in May, called Russia and China a risk - and in January or today in February 2021, the same government is considering addressing Russia. There's absolutely no logic to that. You have to explain that to us. And repeated words about the possibility of excluding the candidate during or at the end of this case is not true information, although I regret to say that you have said it several times, Mr Vice Prime Minister. At the meeting of political party chairmen with the Prime Minister, it was made clear that, although, theoretically, the government can do that, it can rule out anyone during or at the end of the tender, but it will pay money, because this will not be possible under arbitration. And those compensations for the exclusion of the candidate, unless they are done at the very beginning or, respectively, they will not be paid by ČEZ, but they will be paid by the government, which means all of us taxpayers, in a situation where our economic situation is not really and will not be good in the future. Can we afford this? Can we afford to put the state in this situation? It is necessary to emphasise here, and we have also talked about this several times, that the processing of only applications or documents for participation in tender for those applicants will cost up to one billion crowns. These are really large funds spent, and if the candidates were expelled over time, they would probably actually succeed in arbitration. And we cannot want future governments and citizens to bear this burden. I think this is a very unreasonable procedure. It is also very often said that, in fact, the three candidates cannot build it, that is, from democratic countries, that without Russia being part of the consortium, it cannot be built, or information is still being heard that in such a case there would be insufficient competition and therefore the supply would be more expensive. I am in this matter, and I forgot the paper on the table, but I will repeat it to you as it is, and to any of you I am very happy to forward, she has turned to Mr. Government Agent, Mr. Míl, with three questions. The first question was: Do three candidates from democratic countries - France, the United States and South Korea - each of them and separately deliver the nuclear power plant for our conditions and can each of them give this offer? Mr. Government Agent, I will then, if necessary, go for it to quote you precisely, clearly answered this question, that they can. It really isn't true what's spreading around here, and some, and I'd rather not talk to anybody, they've declared it here several times: you can't build it without Russia. So the first information is that all three candidates from democratic countries can build a nuclear power plant on their own. And it's also not true what sometimes spreads around here, that the American and South Korean project is almost the same and that they would only file it together. Well, I was researching this information, and, of course, in the 1970s, when the South Jihokorejec started building nuclear power plants and most of them in their own state, it really was an American license. But since then, they have developed their own projects, and you know that they have now built a very successful nuclear power plant in the United Arab Emirates. So that was the first question. Yes, all three without Russia, without China, can build and put offers on the construction of a nuclear power plant. The second question was whether it could be done without Russia or China being part of the consortium. Because you know, Mr Vice Prime Minister and others, that there are five democratic parties here today who have made it clear that Russia and China are not only unacceptable to them as a major supplier, but also as a subcontractors, a participant in the consortium. And I would very much like to appreciate the position of social democracy, which also said that it does not want Russia and China to be part of the tender, and actually what Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček signed. So Mr. Míl's answer was that yes, indeed, not only can the three of them do it, but that it is actually possible without Russia and China being part of the consortium. And the third question was - and then I'm going to get it, and I'm going to apply - if it's going to have a major impact on the price, because that's a very common argument for the members of the government: if you limit the number of participants, it's going to have a higher price, it's going to have an impact on the purchase price. Even for this, Mr. Government Attorney told me that it would not have a major impact on the price, that by addressing the three, it is a sufficiently competitive environment and it will not have a significant impact on the price. And that is also a very important answer for all of us, because that is what we want. In this context, I would like to say more: I do not know how you want to continue this subject, when, even at the meeting of the Government Committee on Nuclear Construction in November, December, the Prime Minister said that it is impossible to continue until the purchase prices are clearly set. At the meeting with the parties' chairmen, the Prime Minister made it clear that financing cannot be continued until it has been clarified. And this law is directly related to these questions that you haven't let us discuss, you haven't informed us. You didn't inform us. Those committees, which also had something to say about this, and I would like to say that there is a committee of foreign and security in particular, have not been given the opportunity to discuss this issue at all, and I consider this to be an unacceptable situation. [[13.00 hours]] I think that we are all concerned about this, and I believe that most of us are concerned about making our country sovereign, free, safe in the future, so that we are a solid part of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. And I believe that as well as I do, you are concerned about some of our colleagues' comments. I already told you. I was visited by a French senator in the summer and he said to me, "You're probably already lost, because your president is pro-Russian, pro-Chinese, so you're already, like, Maďar, you're still, how do you do it? I assured him that we weren't, that we weren't lost, that it would certainly all be reversed after the next election. And I firmly believe in it. But really, ladies and gentlemen, we can't mess with our future like this, because there are things that can be fixed, there are things that can be reversed. In fact, a large part of the laws that we are discussing are still going to be changed in some way. But we know well from history that when the basic foreign policy orientation goes wrong, when that country goes in a different direction, when it happens, it even gets into a lift of undemocratic regimes, then it is often corrected for decades. And we who have experienced it are very careful about it. That is why such a project, such as this project, is not just an energy, economic project. This project clearly has security geopolitical implications. Such a project is symbolic. We don't want Putinův Russia sticking a flag in the middle of our territory: another conquered territory. So do we.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u55	I apologise, Madame, it is 13 o'clock, and at this point we must interrupt this item and the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. According to our agreement, we will continue at 14.30, point 32. And I'll introduce you to an apology. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from the meeting from 11 o'clock to the end of today for work reasons. I remind all members of the Organizing Committee that his meeting is called for today and will begin at 13.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-001-351.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a bit of a state here, but that does not matter, because we have a second reading, so it does not matter yet, I think, so we will continue. We have here the first point firmly placed at 14.30 and this is about
