ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth meeting on the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. To record our participation, I've just checked you out, I'll ask you to log in with my I.D. cards, who votes with the spare card, please let me know. At the same time, I note that half the number of Members is present and all those who are not present are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs. We should start today's meeting by discussing points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines have been met. These are points 336, 339, 340, 341, 342, 343 and 344, prints 545, 966, 317, 535, 911, 961 and 1116. Then we would eventually continue by discussing points from the block laws, second reading. I have several applications here. Spare card 21 - Mr. Mr. Kolářík. So I have two applications with priority rights so far, before the beginning of the meeting he applied in writing and asked for a speech by President Bartošek, then by President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I come up with a proposal for the inclusion of a new point and it will be named the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic on the journey of Jan Hamáček to Moscow, scheduled for 19 April 2021. For one thing, it is a new point, I ask for its inclusion, and if you support this proposal, I would ask that it be placed as the second one today following the negotiated law of the OSL, or execution. Why am I coming here with this point? This is because Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček is on his way to Moscow when this trip is to be made by a government special, so I assume that this trip had to be approved by the government in the course of the procedures necessary for the release of money from the fund of top visits for the path of constitutional officials. On the way, the Deputy Prime Minister is also required to accompany the Slovak politician Andrej Danko with the government special, and the relevant ministry has an obligation to prepare a budget for government negotiations for approval, to list delegation members and escorts and to specify the main purpose of the trip. Without the approval of the government, the journey cannot take place and, similarly, the government has an obligation to inform the public of the reasons for the journey and the amount of the costs and the planned negotiations. What this is about is that the context of the upcoming visit is all the more complicated, that yesterday, April 15, 2021, Joe Biden's administration imposed new extensive sanctions on Russia on 32 natural and legal persons and decided to expel 10 Russian diplomats. Furthermore, there is a growing tension in the territory of Ukraine and at their borders as a result of the transfer of military troops of the Russian Federation and their intention and further development are large question marks between NATO states and the EU. And it is not in the context of our Czech Republic, the dialogue between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation remains a deadlock, even though regular consultations are held in quotation marks in accordance with the provisions of Article 5 and if the security interests of one of the Contracting Parties so require, such consultations shall take place without delay in accordance with Article 6. Although the Government of the Czech Republic has asked the Russian Party for consultations and has appointed a Special Envoy of the Government for relations with the Russian Federation, the Russian Party has formally confirmed its interest, it is not clear to date when and how negotiations are to be held and how the Russian Party will respond. It should be made clear that diplomatic relations do not work, even among the Ministry of Defence at the level of military ambassadors, because the case of a Russian diplomat arrested last year in Central Bohemia Říčany during the purchase of special ammunition cooled already very tense Czech-Russian relations. It must be said here that he was a military envoy. Since then, the mutual dodgeball began in the embassy, and Russia has gradually testified or rejected three official military diplomats from the Czech Republic since last summer. In practice, it represents half the military section there. The Czech party responded equally hard and according to the principles of reciprocity. Unfortunately, previous attempts to resolve disputes between Russia and the Czech Republic have failed. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček has - [[A silence coming out because of the high noise level.]] Vice Prime Minister Hamáček is supposed to deal with Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov, not Minister of Health. In view of the exceptional complexity of the situation in relations between Prague and Moscow and the overall foreign political situation in which Ukraine specifically requested support in disputes with the Russian Federation, and this support was given to it by the EU and NATO leaders, the path of the Czech Government's representative is of extreme importance, all the more so that the Czech government decides in these weeks to prepare the tender, to build a new nuclear block in Dukovany, which, in accordance with the recommendation of the security institutions of the Czech Republic, should not be involved in a candidate from risk countries, namely the People's Republic of China and Russia, even in the form of a consortium. There are a number of questions, such as how a group was formed, which goes to Moscow, which journalists and whether there were even seats on the plane, because, for example, Mr Kundra of Respekt writes that he wanted to sign up and there was no room. I wonder how the opportunity to take part in this trip was announced, what were the criteria and who made the decision. What is also very striking is that the Minister wants to meet a close associate of President Vjačeslav Volodin, who is on both the EU and US sanctions list in connection with Crimea's annexation. I believe that this is an extremely important journey, and the Chamber of Deputies should take a clear position on this. My private opinion is that the best thing would be for Minister Hamáček not to fly to Moscow in the current international situation. [[9.10 hours]] If this item is included, I will draw up a resolution on which you will then be able to vote to know what motion for a resolution I am going to this meeting with: "Conclusion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the path of Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček to Moscow. Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček is on his way to Moscow. This trip will take place with a government special, so it had to be approved by the government in the framework of the procedures for financing the peak visit and paths of constitutional officials. It is worth noting that Slovak politician Andrej Danko will also fly in the government special. The Government has an obligation to inform the public of the reasons for this journey, the amount of costs and the planned negotiations. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to: I. informed the Chamber of Deputies of the explanatory memorandum accompanying the approval of the use of the government special for the delegation of Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček; II. inform the Chamber of Deputies and the public of the composition of the delegation of Vice Prime Minister Hamáček and the programme of the planned journey; III. ensure that, without exception, the registration of the staff of the representative office is made out of all the meetings and the contents thereof are communicated to the Chamber of Deputies immediately after the end of the journey. Furthermore, if the journey is to take place in accordance with the approved foreign policy concept, it is necessary for Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček to raise the following questions when dealing with Russian partners: 1. Concern about the enormous increase of Russian military forces at the border and clear support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine; 2. concern for the health of Alexej Navalný, who is a political prisoner. The conditions of his prison can be qualified as torture - denial of sleep and access to health care; 3. the opinion of the Czech Government that the Czech Republic does not recognise the illegal annexation of Crimea. Of course, the Chamber of Deputies considers that Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček will not negotiate a tender for the completion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant in Moscow without the Government's mandate or for the purchase of Sputnik, which has not been approved by the EMA." This is the end of the motion for a resolution. I am also saying this because the European Union has ordered 50 million vaccines in advance for the European Union if this vaccine passes through approval under the EMA certification agency. Thank you for supporting this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u3	Thank you. Another one with priority rights - we had to clarify it a little bit, the name wasn't on the application, but Vice-President Černochová, didn't we? You have priority today, then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, would like to include a new item on the agenda on behalf of the ODS and the CAO coalition called Information on the way of Minister of Foreign Affairs Hamáček to Moscow. After a year of pandemic and government chaos, it is no longer surprising - and perhaps more humorous than surprising - when the government fails to provide enough vaccines. We recently learned that she ordered less than she could. Even before the media went through the information that by granting six doses of one vial instead of five, the number of deliveries had decreased even more. Now comes Minister Hamáček with his solo action and is going to Moscow to order deliveries of vaccine Sputnik If this item is included, I will draw up a resolution on which you will then be able to vote to know what motion for a resolution I am going to this meeting with: "Conclusion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the path of Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček to Moscow. Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček is on his way to Moscow. This trip will take place with a government special, so it had to be approved by the government in the framework of the procedures for financing the peak visit and paths of constitutional officials -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u6	Vaccines, which is rather a geopolitical instrument of Russia and which is far from certain certification from the European Medicines Agency. Moreover, after its delivery to Slovakia in a different composition than that in which certification is sought, doubts and transparency increase. Prime Minister Babiš criticized this yesterday with the fact that it is not part of Mr. Hamáček's gesture. So it turns out that the government doesn't coordinate to secure the vaccine at all. It is therefore appropriate to ask Minister Hamáček what prompted him to do this, whether it is an attempt to draw attention from his own internal problems or to overtake President Zeman for any reason. I would like to hear from Minister Hamáček what batch and in which state he would like to transport the vaccine Sputnik to the Czech Republic. Public sources show that individual batches of Sputnik do not have the same characteristics, and the vaccine even comes in different forms - in the form of powder or solution. You have certainly noticed that the Slovak Pharmaceutical Institute has stated that the substances imported into Slovakia are different from those examined by the EMA. We would also like to know why the government is rather not trying to obtain more vaccines that are already approved and used in our environment. Why is the Minister going this way looking for an ally like Mr Andrej Danko, the former President of the Slovak National Council with strong ties to Moscow? It would certainly be a good idea for the Minister of Health to comment on this matter as well and to tell the public how to handle the Sputnik vaccine. He intends and whether he will meet the request of the President, who Miloš Zeman made during his appointment. Maybe even his appointment made that clear, we don't know that at the moment. Last but not least, Prime Minister Babiš should say what a strange game with Sputnik This is where the government plays. I definitely don't want a Sputnik vaccine. In a prior judgment, but it is still true that the medical substances that are being used in our country should be verified and should have a transparent and non-changing composition. At the same time, I don't understand why we should bow to Moscow for their vans anywhere, in this case. Was it necessary for Pfizer and other substances to be dealt with by the respective governments? I'm also concerned about the information from yesterday that the vaccine Sputnik V is already in our territory through diplomatic shipments at the request of the Russian Embassy and in unknown quantities, stating that these are deliveries for Russian diplomats. Why the number of doses is not known, it is indeed a mystery. Either the Russian representative is concerned that we would learn how many workers, whether declared or classified, are in our territory, or we have a supply here in case President Zeman asserts his or hers and Sputnik begins to vaccinate even without approval of the appropriate locations. I believe that it is essential here that we address this matter and that Mr Hamáček, Babiš, Arenberger not only comment on the questions that I have raised here. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we put this point on today as the third point of today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u7	Thank you. The chairman of the club is now registered with priority rights, but I don't see him in the hall. Here he comes... Mr. Chairman Faltýnek running.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u8	I'm sorry. [[Breathed]] Good morning. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I have a technical proposal and I submit that - and please pay attention - I submit that it concerns the agenda for today's meeting. It's in agreement with Minister Havlíček. On the original agenda of today's meeting we have after the completion of 545 - execution order called Dukovany. I am coming up with this proposal: that, for item 336, which is the suspended meeting of the Enforcement Order, we should include, after the discussion and approval of the press, 545 item 341, this is the printing of 535 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the safety of work in connection with the dedicated technical means, and then item 344, House print 1116, MPSV, on state social support, and I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u9	Thank you. I have it at my disposal. Another priority right, President Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u10	I will try to be brief so that we do not hesitate and get to the important discussion of individual laws. I would like to propose the inclusion of the section Information on the journey of Minister Hamáček to Moscow as the fourth point. I suggest this as a fourth point to give you options, and I understand that the Minister is on his way, so maybe he won't be able to make it first or second point, so he has time to get ready and come at the same time, so worst case, even as a fourth point, I think that would be possible. I'd like to say why. The first reason is that the Minister of Health yesterday - and I am very glad that this was the way it was said - said that we are able to do not only 10 doses but even 12, 13 and 14 doses from imported AstraZeneca vaccines. That means we have a lot more vaccines than we think. The same was said from Minister Arenberger regarding Pfizer. After all, whoever you were looking at the Events, so you heard it from the first good. And he claimed, which surprised me very much that we are not able to make six doses of this vaccine, as the Prime Minister thought and how it is normally done, but even seven, if not eight. I suppose as Minister of Health and former Director, or now I don't know what his position is, the director of the Royal Vinohrady University Hospital, which is a vaccination center, he must know this very well. This means, if we import, say, a million doses of Pfizer, then in fact, a million doses of it, when we count the same instead of seven eight, we are able to do de facto 1,200,000, if not 1,300,000 doses. So you always have to assume there's more than one dose. That is why I think - and it is good for citizens to know this so that doctors know - that actually when there is some volume of vaccines, that these doses can be done considerably more. He says, of course, it depends on the skill of the doctor, what the needle is, what the cone is, but that's logical. I suppose the previous ministers ordered the best needles with the best cone, so that we could get as many benefits from each bottle as possible, because that's what it is, these are the practical things that help our citizens. So, in light of this, I think it's pointless to get more vaccines, but rather to focus on making effective use of the ones we have and getting the maximum number of doses that Minister Arenberger talked about, and that prove the IHIS statistics, when it is clear that we have imported, say, 240,000 or 220,000 units or doses, AstraZenecy vials, we were supposed to inoculate 220,000, but there are some 270,000 vaccinated in the statistics. And the explanation is that we can get more doses than the supplier actually thinks. And the second point. I respect colleagues from social democracy and social democracy; I consider many of them to be friends; after all, they are from Brno, and yet the person, as he is older, remembers a number of things. And I remember that once before, without the government knowing about it, one politician, it's been over 50 years, he's gone to Moscow, and I think there were politicians from Slovakia with him. And when we remember how it turned out -- I also think the House of Deputies didn't discuss it then, she only found out when he came back -- I wouldn't want him to get in trouble again. Well, maybe if we cover up like this and cover our backs for the Home Secretary, I think he'll be fine, and it would be a shame for history to repeat itself. Let us learn from these mistakes. I think the Minister deserves our support, which is why I would like to give him space and he can explain it here, and we stood up for him and he has successfully gone to Moscow to negotiate with the sanctification of the government and the Chamber of Deputies for the benefit of the Czech Republic this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a moment, here are two similar suggestions - an opinion on the way and information to the road. You volunteered for that information on your journey, so I take it it as an alternative proposal for Mrs Černochová's proposal, yes? [[Agreed.]] President of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I greet you warmly on Friday. The last contribution from the chairman of the TOP 09 club was a little more relaxed, I would try to move the discussion forward a little bit, so far ahead, that what we would hear about what the Minister was actually doing in Moscow, now abroad, basically like he's going there, I have a feeling, Hamáček, and what he's done there before what he's going there. Otherwise, I might think he's going to get my vaccine. I'm gonna get my first dose next Friday. I'm gonna get a vaccine that's gonna be available. That's one. Two... Well, I suggest that if that point is included, it should be classified as information only after Mr. Hamáček's return. Secondly, as far as I'm not an expert, I'm sorry for the layman approach - hazing with the number of doses from one bottle, first five, then six, and now even 10 to 12 or how many. I would like to ask what the celebrated one says, sorry, so very strongly favored European Medicines Agency, without which nothing is possible at all, about the number of doses per bottle. In order not to make it so that the vaccinated vaccine would be sufficient for the second dose to work just by looking at the vial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u13	Thank you. I have several applications for the meeting without prior rights. Mr Lipavský is the first Member to prepare Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include a new item entitled Information on Government Diplomacy against the Russian Federation. Here I will follow up on what has been said since my previous speakers, by Mr Bartošek, Mrs Černochová, Mr Válek. We know that on Monday Jan Hamáček was in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and soon after, on Wednesday, we learn of his intention to make his way to Moscow. It's not itself. It will be the first visit of the Czech Foreign Minister in Moscow after 15 years. This is why very bad and very burdened relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation are. There is a broad agenda for problems and Russia knows very well why it does not want to meet with Czech representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or even at the level of prime ministers. It will always take place at the presidential level or at the level of an agent, preferably at the embassy through the ambassadors, because it is a land that is advantageous for the Russian Federation, and it is a land that prevents real issues from being dealt with in bilateral relations between the Czech Republic and Russia. On Monday, Hamáček is entrusted with the management of the resort, on Wednesday he announces the trip, without any planning, without any preparation. And what are the circumstances of what is happening in the world? United States - SolarWinds, hacker attacks, 10 expelled diplomats, Poland - three expulsion diplomats. Where are the foreign ministers of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia traveling these days? They travel to Ukraine to express their solidarity with Ukraine because the Russian Federation has gathered huge troops at its borders and talks about the destruction of Ukraine, talks about the enforcement of its demands and so on, occupying Crimea, supplying weapons, technology to Donbas. Our Czech Foreign Minister will be in Moscow by then. [[9.30 hours]] And you know what else happens on Monday when Hamáček's in Moscow? And that really feels like it's sending a very bad signal. The meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers, the so-called FAC, will take place. Who will be there for the Czech Republic? Not Hamack, Hamáček will be in Moscow. This will be the signal that the Czech Republic will send to the European Union. This will be the signal the Czech Republic will send against this whole situation. What will Babiš look like when he comes to the next European Council? The other circumstances of the journey are absolutely scandalous. Andrej Danko, President of the Slovak National Party, right-wing extremist, remember his remarks about the Romec, acts as an agent of Russian influence and mediates this journey. so this path should be clearly rejected. The Prime Minister has a chance to stop it. It has already been said that such a journey must take place with the consent of the government. Government approval doesn't have to be, maybe it would be enough if he told him not to come. I do not know why the Czech Minister of Foreign Affairs, the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of the Interior meet with the Russian President of the vaccine industry. It's probably not a vaccine, it's probably an industrial substance, or I can't explain it. We decide that the vaccine Sputnik is not on the territory of the European Union because it does not have EMA certification, and I believe that it has not even applied for certification, there are only some preliminary information, so it will probably not have it for a long time. So it's a political game from Russia, let's not doubt it. And here we often talk about different agents and hybrid wars, and I'm accused of all sorts of hauntings. You know, but if there were basic simple principles on the Czech side of how we create foreign policy and how we defend the interests of the Czech Republic, none of this would apply. We make the whole thing ourselves. I made the motion, the arguments too. Mr President, there is still information on the application that I wanted to include Dukovany, but, given the proposal from President Faltýnek, I am withdrawing this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u15	Thank you. Meanwhile, President Pekarová Adamová applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u16	Minister, Minister, honourable Members, as I have spoken with the presidents of the coalition clubs, as well as the inclusion of the points that my fellow speakers have announced, which they have asked for, you do not want to support. I would like to ask you once again to appeal to you for this point to be included, given that this is indeed a very serious security threat to our interests. Let's put it in a simple context and context of these days. What's happening on the Ukrainian-Russian border? Escalation, arms, white strip tanks. What is happening in the US administration, or what action did it take yesterday? The expulsion of dozens of diplomats, in diplomats' quotes, also the imposition of other sanctions on Russia. Following this, Poland's actions - the expulsion of diplomats. Recently, the expulsion of diplomats from Italy and other countries. These are our allies, those are the countries with which we are in NATO or the European Union and NATO. Those are the ones we cooperate with who are one of our security guarantees. And in the same context, at the same time, one of the government's top officials, the vice prime minister, is going to go to Moscow on his own without the government's mandate, for that is scandalous, without the Prime Minister's knowledge, your prime minister. And what we know about the journey is disturbing in itself, but what do we not yet know about the journey? The government promised how transparent it would be. So let's approve that point, one of those points, preferably all, arrange the participation of the ministers concerned and the Prime Minister, and let's discuss and learn about what the taxpayer has to pay on Monday and the next days. I mean, it's public money, it's taxpayers' money, and you want to cover the fog screen around this trip. Moreover, I am interested in a number of specifics, such as Mr. Danek's participation in this journey. How much will he have paid? What contractual relationship will involve the delegation that will go there? What exactly is his role? Please find out about Mr. Danek. It would certainly be good to know when it should be part of the delegation of the Czech Republic, our Minister, the Vice Prime Minister. Is this really all about Sputnik? In this constellation I was talking about, these things could be mentioned even more, is that really just the real reason? I don't think it's just us, the government that hasn't decided, at least that's what they say, that we should have the information. The public should have them, too. Speaking of Sputnik V, just look at this great case here, which Slovakia is doing for us. In the last few weeks, a great example, exactly how not to go. Thousands of vaccines lying in stock, the end of the Prime Minister, the end of the Minister of Health, a vaccine that is not transparent even with them, how exactly it was paid, how much it cost, what the terms are. And yesterday, when Ms. President of the Slovak Republic, Čaputová, at her press conference, said that after looking into the contracts, she found out that Russia was lying and not telling the truth what the real reason is for asking for the vaccine back, it should be another piece of the mosaic warning for us, a clear warning that this is not the way to go. And if Mr Hamáček does so on his own, without the government's mandate, I ask the members of the YES movement: Do you mind? Does that seem okay to you? Will it be a new standard for individual ministers to go around the world, across different countries, on their own without others in the government being informed about it and approving it? Is that a normal procedure for you? So what ways do we still not know which ways were made in this way? That's exactly what this speculation can do, and then you want to be there to do a staffing. I can't believe you'd be able to do that and willing to do that. And I would also like to know if Members of the ČSSD are in agreement with this path. Yes, you'll show it by voting. My colleagues are obviously looking forward to it, but I think you should be aware that you're creating a very dangerous situation here. And the Vice Prime Minister has a lot to answer for, not only for us in opposition, for the public, but for you, as well. So please support the point. For us, I can declare that we will definitely speak very factually and we also want to discuss the first point concerning executions. That is why it is also proposed to place it as a second point, so the excuses of the type that we would miss the important agenda today really do not stand. Consider the historical role you can play.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u17	Thank you. On the agenda now, Mr Lubomír Volný. By the time he gets to the counter, I'm giving him a warning for indecent behavior, just like his colleague Marian Bojka. You're violating measures again, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u18	Thank you, of course. Wait, I'd like to disinfect my counter right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u19	I'll give you five minutes, so don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u20	All right, because first of all, my colleague Lipavský didn't wash his hands in the bathroom. [[Some Members are banging on the benches.]] And second of all, this russophobic filth could be contagious, which is why I'm gonna disinfect it properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u21	Try not to make it into a theater and use your five minutes of time for what you have written on your application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u22	I'm gonna use five minutes to point out that we have light here thanks to Russia, and thanks to Russia, we have heat here. [[There's laughter in the room.]] You should probably realize that, because Russia here, I don't know how many - 70 years - it supplies oil, gas, uranium, and it never blackmailed us politically. But the russophobia and the attack on the primitive aggressive russophobic instincts of voters here the movement and sides on my right hand is absolutely incredible. I feel like we are not even in the middle of the worst hygienic and health crisis at least during the existence of a separate Czech Republic, and we are still dealing with some imaginary hostility with Russia, which really supplies us with dozens, decades and decades of energy at unbeatable prices, which nobody is able to stand up to, and never limit us to anything. It limited us to the Ukraine that was stealing our gas because--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u23	My colleague, I beg you to attend the agenda. You don't have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u24	Okay, well, I'm gonna focus on changing the program because I think there are more important things than Russia, and that's the health and hygiene crisis that we have here, and the fake information that the government is giving us. There are a group of hundreds of doctors, practitioners, immunologists, vaccinationologists, epidemiologists who participated in writing a petition for Healthy Forum, which so despite the active defense of our petition committee passed through the petition committee and ended up in a drawer somewhere. And I said yesterday that on the first opportunity I would propose to discuss this petition on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies before the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, I would like to propose the first point next Tuesday after the fixed points in the morning. Is that clear enough, please, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u25	Yes, I'm based on a written note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u26	The point of discussing the Healthy Forum petition is that before the petition is discussed, I will propose that the House agree to the presence of guests, because the House is a sovereign and it can afford to agree to the presence of guests, i.e. petents, so that they can respond professionally to any questions you may have and explain why this government, in their expert opinion, is lying to us, cheating and why they are murdering. Over 20,000 people have died in this country over the last 12 months and have not perished because of our attack on Russia, at whose borders we are now practicing, there are tens of thousands of soldiers there, and we are harasing weapons there. So Russia didn't kill anyone here, it didn't expose anyone to winter, it didn't expose anyone to hunger or death, but this government murdered tens of thousands of people. And I think that the citizens of the Czech Republic should have the right to hear people who, in this huge crisis that has cost us, I repeat, tens of thousands of lives, have a different opinion than the government establishment, and yet come from professional circles and have had decades and decades of scientific activity and thousands and thousands of saved human lives. Therefore, I beg you, regardless of personal sympathy or antipathy and regardless of party jurisdiction, to allow this petition to be discussed next Tuesday after the first two points that I suspect are also some reports, so it could follow up nicely, and to allow representatives of petents, highly qualified doctors and experts to speak in practice at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I suppose that not even government Members, and I certainly do not expect opposition Members to have anything to hide and that some of these briefcases could prevent them from doing the right thing and allow the citizens of this country to hear the views of experts who believe that government measures have killed in this country and are the worst possible solution for the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u27	Mr. Ambassador, to clarify. On Tuesday we start at 14.00, there are two firmly classified points - Information from the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the situation in the steel industry and information from the government on the release, so here you have in note: after these fixed points on Tuesday 20. 4. [[The Free Member agrees and asks outside the microphone whether he should disinfect the rhetoric that he already knows.]] The lady will come, don't worry, the lady will take care of it. I beg you to take your seat. So, Mrs Valachová will be prepared, then Mr Feri will be the last to sign up until 9:30. [[A staff member of the PSP Office disinfects the speaker's desk.]] So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u28	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to propose a new point for today, which would be the Information of Graduation and Final Examination 2021. The reason is simple. On Monday the practical parts of the maths start, and here we, colleagues, learned on Wednesday evening during the discussion of the House's plenary that it is not at all certain when the practice in our secondary schools will be restored, or whether high school students will at least return to the benches in those final years. Since we have previously published some rules for the graduation and final exams, I think it is most honest with the school heads, teachers and students and apprentices to make it clear that we are following this situation, we know what is happening, and we are ready to respond to it if everything is not ready as it should, starting Monday. I also informed you on Wednesday night at the plenary meeting that I requested information from our captains and captains as Vice-President of the Education Committee, and I must inform you in advance that this information confirms that more than half of the schools did not move the terms of the practical parts and, therefore, the maths, and really only percentage modified the content of the practical parts of the maths. This is where I want the principals and the principals to stand up for themselves. The reason is simple. When they had to decide to move the graduation or final exam or to adjust the content, so they counted, first that the students would return on March 1st, then in mid-March, then April 12th, then April 19th and now we have a question mark on April 26th, and yet on Monday, which is a week earlier, they start practical parts of the math. I am convinced that it is honest to respond to this as the House. So my proposition 13.30 today - information, solid classification, title of the graduation point and final exam 2021. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u29	I thank you and the last Mr. Feri on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to propose a continuation of the point that we discussed here on Wednesday night, namely the Government's Information on the Pandemic Law - it is already included in the agenda, paragraph 523. I think whoever wanted to hear something about it was here, the debate was, I think, very bright and helpful, even though we didn't learn as much from the minister as we wanted. They discussed both the opposition and the Minister, but also the coalition. And I suggest that we continue the debate on Wednesdays and options, we can discuss it either from 2:30, possibly from 5:30, and if that didn't work out, from 6:30, just like last time. It can be discussed after 7:00. The situation with regard to the pandemic law is rather dynamic and even more dynamic, because, I don't know, if you know this, at least four proposals to abolish the measures of the Ministry of Health, which also concerns the meeting, which means that the Supreme Administrative Court is discussing this as a matter of priority, it would probably be a great deal of performance if it made it to that date, but I think there might be some development there. At the same time, we also need to take into account that the government will also act, there may be other measures. So if that point were, say, continuous and informative by the Minister of Health, I think it would be very beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u31	Well, I'll recap, you said more of those times. There was 13.30... 14.30. [[Member Feri specifies.]] What day? . So 2:30, 5:30 and 6:30. [[Wednesday.]] I'll call my colleagues from the lobby and deal with the individual proposals. [[Gong.]] I didn't read the apology at the beginning. Minister Karel Havlíček apologizes for work reasons, Minister Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Minister Robert Plaga for work reasons, Minister Alena Schillerová for work reasons and Minister Miroslav Toman for work reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now vote on individual proposals to amend the agenda for this meeting. First of all, there is the proposal by President Bartošek to include a new item entitled the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the journey of Jan Hamáček to Moscow. Classification of the new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 103 Members registered, for 36, against 9. The motion was denied. Mrs Černochová has proposed a similar point, but it is a separate vote, information on the way of Minister of Interior Hamáček to Moscow... or Secretary of State Hamáček to Moscow. Classification of the new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 96, registered is 103, for 36, versus 6. The motion was denied. Mr Lipavský proposes to include a new item in the Government's information on diplomacy against the Russian Federation. Classification of the new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 97, registered is 103, for 35, versus 11. This proposal was rejected. Mrs Valachová proposes the inclusion of a new point in the Information of Graduation and Final Examination 2021. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting number 98, registered is 105, for 82, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. And we will therefore vote on the solid inclusion of this point on Wednesday at 1:30 p.m. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Today, today. Well, I don't know why I wrote down... sorry, Wednesday belongs to a colleague of Ferim. So today at 1:30 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 99, registered 102, for 40, against 1. The motion was not accepted. And now that Wednesday, I'm sorry, it didn't fit at the end of the page. Mr Feri proposes paragraph 523, Information on the pandemic law to be discussed, and now there are three alternative proposals. Wednesday 14.30 hours first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 100, registered is 103 Members, for 40, against 1. This proposal has not been adopted, which is a good thing. We have an investigation committee on Bečva there, it would be difficult to combine. The second option is 17.30 hours on Wednesday 21 April. Pandemic law. Initiating vote. Who's up for 17.30? Who's against it? Voting number 101, registered is 103, for 50, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. The third option is 18.30 hours on 21 April. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 102, registered is 103, for 47, against no one. The motion was denied. Now I've changed the order. Mr Volný has proposed the inclusion of a new item for the discussion of the Healthy Forum petition. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 103, registered is 102, for 15, against 28. The motion was denied. Now, then, President Faltýnek's proposal for a technical change, to change the order. The President has proposed that today we have the third reading after discussion of the press 545, which is the civil order of execution, to continue with paragraph 341, House press 535, on the safety of work in connection with dedicated technical means, and then paragraph 344, printing 1116, also the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, on state social support. After that, we would continue the current program of third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of President Faltýnek's proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 104, registered 104, for 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. And that should be all for now. President Válek only proposed the order of that point which was not accepted. If this is all at the moment, then we will proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to get back to the vote. The Chamber of Deputies, thanks to the vote of the ANO movement, social democracy, the Communist Party and the SPD, resigned today for its supervisory function towards the government. It was entirely legitimate for Minister Hamáček to demand that we have the necessary information, adequate information, so that we know who he is associating with and what he is dealing with. Unfortunately, in your vote towards the Russian Federation, you're putting us in a state that has the position of a footman, because then it's no wonder that Russian government media can distort history and write about 1968 that it was a fascist coup. Instead of making it clear that you are clearly rejecting this policy and this statement, you told the Russian Party through the current Foreign Minister that it was an aggressive act of the Warsaw Treaty, the states of the Warsaw Treaty under Russia, which then destroyed the democratization process in the Czech Republic, so you refused to raise your voice and defend the interests of the Czech Republic. [[He speaks very strongly.]] [[10.00 hours]] In fact, by voting, you could have given the Minister of Foreign Affairs a mandate to make it clear on behalf of the Czech Republic that you did not like the Russian Federation gathering troops at the border with Ukraine, that you honor Ukraine's territorial integrity and that you wanted the Russian Federation to respect international obligations, law and not be aggressive. You have completely cowardly refused to stand up for Alexej Navalný, political prisoner and man - here I hear that the representative of the Communist Party is laughing, well, that's your opinion, I respect him - our country with the tradition of human rights before 1989, when we were happy for every vote that stood up for us, so you resigned. What are you selling it for? For Dukovany? Loyalty? What is your motivation for refusing to defy the Russian Federation and defending the interests of the Czech Republic? You have also stated that you refuse to deal with the situation after the annexation of Crimea, that you do not really care that you agree that the Crimea has been annexed. I am sorry that this government of the ANO movement, social democracy, communists supported by the SPD does not want to build and not to build a proud and self-confident foreign policy of the Czech Republic. And I say here that Russia is a partner to us and that Russia needs to be dealt with, but we need Russia strong, democratic and free without Putin's semi-totalitarian regime that beats people, shuts people off in violation of international conventions, disrespects the law, is not a rule of law. It is identified as a security risk in the leading locations, even in the reports of our services. And you're acting like this information doesn't exist. You do not name the risks and leave the Czech Republic in the position of a footman whom the Russian Federation will not appreciate due to your behaviour, thanks to the behaviour of the ANO movement, social democracy, communists and SPD. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u33	Priority right, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u34	Thank you, Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen. I reject such ideology of this decision. I understand the right-wing opposition that it will make up for an hour during the third reading session on Friday to build up the adoption of laws here at third reading and then say that the government is unable to enforce its own laws. I get that. But to say that the Chamber of Deputies has resigned to a supervisory function because we have refused to discuss one course here, that is nonsense. Mr President, by means of you, the President of the KDU-ČSL, stop the ideology and the war propaganda! That's not true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u35	Thank you. President of the Válek, priority rights. For others: we are among the points, we do not have an open point yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u36	I'm not gonna be an ide - I'm not gonna say a word, I'm sorry, it bothers me - I'm sorry we didn't approve those points for some specific reasons. The first particular reason is, and I strongly support through the President, Mrs Valachová, with her idea that we really do not know if schools will be open at all at the time of graduation, and I thought that we had the opportunity to discuss this with the Minister, to look for solutions so that students who received a public promise from the Prime Minister and now nothing is moving anywhere have a clear assurance as to what will actually happen at the time of graduation. Maybe so, I'm in a conflict of interest because I also have children, and my sister has children, and I have several relatives who have seniors. The second thing I wanted to solve was the debate on vaccines in general, because again and seriously I was very pleased by the report that I finally managed to catch up on the slide in the vaccine orders, that we ordered through the rigid resistance of some of the previous ministers of Pfizer vaccine in sufficient quantities and that the minister clearly said that we were able to obtain more doses from the bottle with a well-chosen cone of the syringe, in small 1-millimeter syringes, I hope they were purchased in sufficient quantities. I understand that some Members do not know this, do not understand it and do not understand it. All of us doctors know that when we have a bottle that says 20 ml, it depends on how we work with the bottle. There's always a little more of those milliliters, and it depends on what syringe we use and what needle, because there's some residue left in it. So you can work with this. For this reason, I was very hoping that Mr Feri's item would be included, because I will draw attention to two very practical matters concerning this. Students are waiting for Erasmus, they have to go to Erasmus in the fall, they have to go to foreign practice because we have adopted a law here in this House that they cannot do Ph.D. without foreign practice, and if they are not vaccinated, they will simply have a big problem going there and putting them at risk of infection. That means, I wanted to talk about having enough vaccines now, because we ordered them, if we could get more doses out of those vials, so that we could start planning more long-term. To think about it, because the Chamber of Deputies is not sitting on holiday, we should deal with this in advance. And second thing, we really should be dealing with the pandemic law. I understand that the Minister is new there now, that Minister Blatný, who learned basically on that day that he was quitting, and immediately he left with him and several Deputys and others, so actually there is no continuity, it just happens, here it is a dynamic action at the Ministry of Health. I must thank, through Mr President, Professor Adámková's Member, because it is a good thing that she asks who are the advisors at the Ministry. And if the chairman of the Health Committee doesn't know that, how should we opposition Members know? Who's behind these decisions anyway? And why did I want to know? I wanted to know because you realize that at the moment, if a patient wants to go to a spa, he's sick, he doesn't want to go to an insurance company, he wants to go for a shorter period of time, and he wants to pay for it himself, so the decision of the Ministry of Health makes it impossible for him. I know they're not hundreds of thousands of people, but I mean a particular colleague from Prague who is being treated with rheumatoid arthritis, has had biological treatment, cares for her sick relatives, wanted to go to the spa for 14 days, pay for a treatment stay, and it can't be done! Because a group of anonymous advisors told the Minister that the pandemic law simply doesn't allow it, which is not true. That's what we're here to discuss! That's practical stuff! [[He speaks loudly, urgently.]] So I think that this is not what he says - and I hope I have explained in this speech why I supported these points and why it is not - that it is not what he says, through the President, Mr Filip. This is not about politicizing, this is about solving the specific problems of our country's citizens, the problems that arise. And I would like to put it lightly in conclusion: I expected that the problem of going to Moscow or of going to Moscow would be supported primarily by members of the ANO movement, especially because if their Prime Minister said that he didn't know why the Minister was going there, why his first Deputy Prime Minister was going there, and he couldn't actually learn it from the government, I was hoping that he would allow the Prime Minister to learn about it in the Chamber of Deputies from the Minister. Well, obviously, the Prime Minister doesn't have the support of his own Members anymore. And I feel very sorry for him because it's not good, it's not right, so it's not supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-16-ps2017-098-04-000-000.u37	Thank you. I don't register any other priority rights. Opening point
