ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of some other laws, as amended /German press 1170/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, will be mentioned. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to make a very brief presentation of the Government's bill on elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. It's probably not worth explaining why I'm standing here today with this proposal. Of course, we all respect the Constitutional Court's decision and our task is to resolve the situation. I understand that the entire Parliament of the Czech Republic is involved in dealing with this situation, negotiations are held and discussions are held. However, the government, in my opinion, has a duty to put a hand in this matter as well, and the result of the government's work is a proposal that I present here today or mention. Given that the government does not start in a green meadow, or the debate does not start from the beginning, and as we have the opportunity to find out from the negotiations that are being conducted and led, there are, in principle, two opinions or two solutions that have been accentuated in political discussions, and therefore the government has presented this material in two options, which respects the two possible solutions, and it is, of course, in the Chamber of Deputies, how it stands and which option it chooses. The first option maintains the existing system [[The microphone was switched off by mistake.]] It maintains the existing system based on 14 electoral regions, which also correspond to self-governing regions, but it changes that results will not be calculated at regional level, but first at national level, when the mandates will be allocated to specific candidates of the Ukrainian candidate lists in the second stage, and the current method of the electoral divider is replaced by the so-called Hareův quota. [[with laughter]] The second option, that's a bigger hit to the current setup. He is counting on the entire Czech Republic to be a constituency and the mandates would be allocated at national level using the Hagenbach-Bischoffův quota. The option is, of course, linked to the fact that there would be a single list of candidates, ballots for the entire territory of the Czech Republic, and for each subject there could be up to 200 candidates. As far as the coalition is concerned, we propose an increased closing clause for the progress of the coalition into the scrutinium, but lower than the original form of the law. The border is 7 for two-wheelers, 9 for three-wheelers and 11 for cases where there will be four or more entities in the coalition. We propose the adoption of the Act on 1 July 2021 and, given the need for an accelerated review of the amendment, I would like to propose a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 15 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Another apology has arrived, Minister Jan Blatný apologizes from today's meeting within 17 hours due to urgent work matters. And I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Marek Benda, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I think we all know what kind of situation we're in. Last week, Mr Výborný's proposal to amend the electoral law was passed by this House at first reading. The condition and agreement here across the political spectrum was that this government proposal, which - quite frankly I say - does not help us much because it is in two variants, which means that we would have to first choose the option to which we would lean if it was one or 14 electoral districts. Likewise, because of course it was presented more than 10 days ago, it contains some elements where I think there is an agreement across the political spectrum that will work differently. For example, it is the three-way border for coalitions, where it has been quite clear that we will only have two borders. However, I recommend that we order the proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee. I believe that next Wednesday we are able on the committee after some agreement, whether we take this proposal or Mr Excellent's proposal, and I really consider the prestigious thing to be completely necessary, to be honest, and I will rather look for a way to reach the Senate so that we also happen to be in the Senate and do not cause ourselves any complications there. I think we can let it go. It's gonna be a little different looking for a solution anyway. I'm going to join the debate to propose that we cut to 15 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Mr. Výborný is the first to be logged in with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL club, then I register the application with the opinion of Mr.Patrik Nacher's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the essential and key point here was said by both the Minister and now the rapporteur, colleague Marek Benda. For myself and for the KDU-ČSL MEP, I believe that this is a bit of a wasted time at the moment, because we are talking technically about the medium - one was discussed last week on Thursday, today a government version. I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior in my own way, because in this variant B - it is already very strange when the law is presented in two variants, that means that we would have to delete one option by the amendment either way - the Ministry of the Interior and the Government have been strongly inspired by the proposal, which has been here since 2019 from the KDU-ČSL workshop. In principle, it is heading in the same direction, both for the additive treaty for the coalition and for the conversion of votes into mandates. In principle, this follows the ongoing political negotiations towards some degree of proportionality in the system, which would represent both the current wording of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and was actually a response to the Constitutional Court's finding. I think that this crucial and essential moment cannot happen here today, at the meeting of this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This essential and crucial is the political agreement, the political agreement at the level of the political parties in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the Senate - I would like to emphasise this. We really - although there are, of course, some agreements in the sense that, for example, the conversion of votes into mandates is mainly a matter for the Chamber of Deputies - so communication towards the upper chamber is simply crucial and important. I would not like to see a situation where the bill will be sent here by boat, because it is an electoral law and no chamber can overrule each other. So I would really like to appeal to all the MPs and political parties for the KDU-ČSL membership club to complete the political negotiations in the next few days and agree on a solution that, as has already been said here, is likely to be looming. I welcome and thank you for the constructive approach, whether it be on the question of the number of electoral regions, that this issue will therefore remain ad acta in this case and we will not open this Pandořin's box of electoral regions in this relatively short time, that we will really deal with the two issues, and that is a coalition and an additive treaty, where I register even after these negotiations, that there is some majority will to be a loading kvora here, probably in those two limits, and that we will also reach negotiations towards the mathematical conversion of votes into mandates. Here I see that there are a number of possibilities in the game, but that all of this really leads to the fact that we will not set aside a special penzum of mandates as a bonus for winners and that we will try to move towards a proportional system in some variant that is of course being offered, and there are a number of them in Europe as well. I can clearly say for the KDU-ČSL MEP's club, and I think that even for the CAO coalition, together with the ODS and the TOP 09, that we will continue to treat the negotiations very constructively, and I believe that we will reach agreement so that the constitutional-legal committee and then the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies can support and approve these political agreements. On which supporter, this is really secondary at the moment. Perhaps today's debate could have been spared in this sense, because we already discussed one draft amendment to the electoral law last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Mr Nacher, with the club's opinion, then with priority rights, President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u8	Dear Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, following my previous contribution, I would like to present to you not only my opinion but also our entire club. But first let me say a few words about what has already been said here. First I heard - I took notes to be precise: waste of time, save time and so on. As far as I know, how this is going to go down was a political agreement. This means that something has been discussed here on Friday - or Thursday - now don't take my word for it, it has been reduced to 20 days, something will be discussed here today, the government proposal on two options, it will be reduced by 15 days, as the rapporteur said in advance, after all, and it will go in parallel. That was the deal. In that case, I find it really pointless to talk about wasting time here when there was a deal, and of course the citizens can't see behind that door, they can't hear what was said. Well, I have to say it here. As often with these matters, terms like the kvora, mathematical models, etc. fall. And that's exactly what citizens don't understand. They want to know how much - when they vote and when the Constitutional Court said that some part of the electoral law is unconstitutional - how much their vote, how much they will be represented here, and to make it as fair as possible. I think that clearly without the kvor and mathematical models shows and guarantees one constituency. Last time I was here, I was talking about what bothers me because I was there - even in a different role - 20 years ago, and the fact that the example of 2017. ANO Election Profit Movement 29,64 % and 39 percent mandates. And that is the example of injustice. So let me introduce here not only to the theory - and he didn't do it, so I did, as the managers say, homework. I asked our analysts, and we put together a table of how the percentage was in years. I'm not gonna hold you up with all the numbers, I'm gonna tell you the truth. For example, in 2002, social democracy gained 30,2%, representation at the number of mandates 35, so plus 5 percentage points, similar to ODS - 24.47 percent, number of mandates 29. It was similar in 2006. ODS 35,38, number of mandates 40,5, plus 5 percentage points. We will also find a similar spread in social democracy. Attention, in 2010 this bonus included TOP 09, which ran with STAN. She got 16,7, but she was represented here 20,5, which means 4 percentage points more. It was also then in 2013, where the YES movement was already entering, and so it was in 2017. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, since 2002, in principle, all those who had more than 10 per cent sat here more than their electoral profit, not just in 2017. I think it's good to talk about it here so we know the context of what we're talking about here. The context of the amendment to the electoral law that has been in force since 2001, which the court here has decided is up to the 35 electoral districts that he canceled, that he's completely fine. [[14.20 hours]] Likewise -- and I think it's necessary to expose it -- that's information that should be said that this was the last five elections here -- as well as the conversion of votes into mandates. It is constantly stressed that YES was sufficient for mandate 19 232, while STAN had to obtain 43 693 in 2017. So I will tell you the conversion in 2006: ODS and ČSSD 23 364 and the Green Party - and this is the record player - needed 56 081 votes for the mandate, 13,000 more than STAN. That concludes a few things, ladies and gentlemen. First: as I said, all those who have more than 10 per cent more or less are actually getting the number of mandates here, that percentage of the number of mandates is higher than their electoral profit. The second conclusion is that there are elections where all those who are in the Chamber of Deputies have more than they actually have. That's interesting when you look at it, 2002, 2010, 2013. If you look at the chart, there's no red paint. Everyone has gained more than meets the election outcome. There are two explanations: firstly, that there were a number of entities that did not pass more than 5%, so that they were more divided, and secondly, that the elections were more balanced. The moment a subject goes to the others and is the first in the peloton, then there are the situations that we're dealing with here. This is the year 2017, when the ANO movement popped out, and this is 2006, when ODS and ČSSD blew out. I just want us to just say: this is the result of the current electoral system. By the way, the Green Party with a profit of more than half a percentage point than, for example, KDU-ČSL, whose honourable Member Marek Excellent here he now spoke, with this result in 2006 6 Members, KDU-ČSL, who had a half a percentage point less, now has 10. It's just this is the result of the electoral system. By the way, the Green Party filed the constitutional complaint at the time and failed in the same matter. What does all this mean? For us, whether we use the kvora or the mathematical models, the moment there's 14 regions, we're not going to remove this elementary injustice, which is proven here -- I've given it to you briefly, it could have been longer, it could have been introduced -- it's been since 2002. For us, one constituency is the most just, the most proportional - when it comes to the proportion - and the most understandable. This is supposed to be understandable not only to mathematicians, statistics, political scientists, but also to citizens. How do they know about this? Now he's been converted to the edge, now he's going to convert the rest to the whole state, and then it's going to go back to the edges, then there's going to be some other kvorum, and so on. No, it's supposed to be understandable for these people to understand, so they can get it, except for the remains of entities that don't go through more than 5%, so they can figure it out more or less on their own. It will also fulfill the purpose of the election here. We have one House, one government, one prime minister, so let it be a duel that I called myself B, B, F, which is not Branky, points, seconds, but Babiš, Bartoš, Fiala - alphabetically, so you don't get angry - and it will be quite clear who is voting for, without some mathematical models and calculations. That is why we support at this point - however much we do not question the agreements and have to go somewhere and probably somebody has to give way - so at this point we support one constituency, which is the most full of clarity, justice and transparency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka. I'm sorry, two facts have come up - Vice-President Pikal and President Michálek, factual remarks. Then you'll have to wait, Mr. Chairman, just a moment. Okay, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. I'll be very short. I just wanted to respond to the fact that this one constituency could eliminate all injustice. The fact that if we have an electoral clause, it just always happens that we're going to divide, that some parties here are going to be represented by more MPs than their percentage profit, because we just have a representation here that the votes that are going to fail, we're not going to split those mandates anyway, we're not putting empty chairs here. So this injustice just stays here anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. President Michálek, a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. We agreed it would be brief here, but, as you can see, it started with a standard political discussion. I'll fill in Patrik Nacher. He forgot to say that it's also a system that ANO thinks is best for him, which is probably why we're dealing with it here. Let us really think more about it than to vote for the most advantageous system that is advantageous for the parties of one man who do not have democratic bases in the regions and build on what they have in Slovakia - that there is one person in charge, who then builds up the candidates - let us focus on really correcting what the Constitutional Court has accused us of, and we will not stick to any of the results of popular creativity in the Chamber of Deputies. The Constitutional Court did not abolish the region. And I would also like to warn against the ideas that appear here that perhaps the other 50 mandates, which cannot be divided into integers, will be divided into party lines according to a list. Indeed, if the Constitutional Court has been told that the system of redistributing mandates is unfair, let us not try to solve this by introducing even greater injustice and that instead of the people in the elections, candidates who will make their way to the House will be elected by party leaders. That's what I think is very undemocratic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also thought it would be shorter, but on the other hand, it's so serious that each of the MPs tends to say something about it. In that case, I'd like to say something to myself for ČSSD. Firstly, I will respond to the criticisms made by my colleague, Mr President, to the Ministry of the Interior. I think that the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is presenting the law in two ways is not something that is not normal. It's not common, we don't have it here every week, but at the same time, the laws that have been presented in at least, for example, some sections of the variant, I remember quite a lot. Secondly, why would that be a pointless suggestion? The Ministry of the Interior must have responded to the Constitutional Court's finding. The Ministry of the Interior, as a matter of fact, the government, couldn't have known how we'd stand up to the original parliamentary proposal here in the House. This means that the Ministry of the Interior, for me as a Member, now not for the same party member as the Minister of the Interior, responded quite correctly, which means it had to accept somehow the Constitutional Court's finding. And if the Ministry of the Interior wanted us to have elections as a guarantor in October, it was quite correct, albeit in two variants, to put forward a bill. I'm gonna follow up on Patrik Nacher, even though I'm aware of reality, practice, and then I'm aware of the theory. The reality and practice is that I just - and I said it on Thursday and I said it in the media - one circuit, the idea of one circuit, is a question that is theoretical, practically politically dead, because we need to find a consensus on this question both in the House and in the Senate, a consensus exactly the same over the same text. That's just not what we're gonna find in the Senate, so there's no point in talking about this more or otherwise than there's a theory. On the other hand, even theory can be interesting. [[14.30 hours]] I don't understand any connections that we would open by discussing one circuit, Pandořin's box. In Slovakia, our neighbouring brotherly state, Pandořina's box of one circuit works, and I do not think that there is a breakdown of democracy or that there is some malfunction of the political system. Just one circuit is something that also has some real and realistic base, and I don't know why we shouldn't talk about it, even theoretically, because I'm saying that practice won't allow us one constituency, because the Senate doesn't agree with it. And if we've put in place such a system that the election laws require the approval of both chambers, there's nothing we can do about it. I'm saying one thing, and I'm going to end with this injustice, even if we do and there is another translation, because we have nothing else left, so injustice will remain in certain aspects. The problem isn't - or it is, but it's also in the regions, which means it's been converted, in that d'Hondt, but it's also that we have equally large regions here. There is nothing we can do about it, because the problem lies in a low number of redistributed mandates in some regions. The smallest region is Karlovarský, on which there were 5 mandates in the last elections, on the other hand, we have 26 mandates in the Central Bohemia Region, and while in the Karlovarský Region there was a need to get 11 percent of the votes for 1 mandate, in the Central Bohemia Region 2 mandates for 7.5 percent of the votes were given. That's injustice! That's an injustice! And the injustice will most likely remain. Everyone immediately takes a picture of where the voter has a chance to really apply his vote and where he fails, not to mention, of course, the candidates on some candidate lists. In short, and well, we will not find any miraculous mathematical formula, no formula that would ensure that the Karlovy Vote Region, where, for example, the ten existing Chambers of Political Parties, will be fully represented here in the House. This is an excluded thing, not only about Karlovy Vary, or the Karlovy Vary Region - in fact who knows our regions, the size of our regions, so most of the regions in our republic are small regions. We have here four to five large regions, which essentially affect everyone else's electoral outcome, and because such small regions logically, because we do not change the regional law, will be preserved in the future, so that means that the problems that have been encountered in this aspect of the electoral law will remain preserved. This means a resumé: it is not only that the big party, the middle party, the small party needed a different number of voters to have a mandate, but it is also about the injustice to one side across the region. That means you get 7.5 percent in one region, you have 2 mandates, and in another region you get 10 percent, it's a small region, you're unlucky, you're without a mandate. So this injustice isn't solved, even if we can lie to each other, but it won't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. The rapporteur didn't make it, he's reporting, and now I've got a point in fact, President Stanjura, if that's not a mistake. [[It's not.]] Real, then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. For President Chvojka, let us use correct arguments. I hear from the Constitutional Court's decision the constant comparison of the largest region of Central Bohemia and Karlovy Vary as the smallest. All we need is math from the last election. I'll talk about valid voices, not invalid voices. 660 683 valid votes were cast in Central Bohemia. They have 26 mandates, so for one mandate of any party, 25 408 Wednesdays have passed. 112 142 votes were cast in Karlovy Vary, and with 5 mandates for one mandate, page 22 428 needed the votes of the citizens of Karlovy Vary. So what an injustice! It's exactly the opposite. After all, the main problem is different regions. 112,000 voters can't have 10 mandates when 660 000 voters would have to have times 6, which means times 5 - 50 mandates. So save the Karl's Vary example somewhere, 'cause it just doesn't add up. The problem is not even in Hondt, nor in terms of conversion, the central problem was not solved by the Constitutional Court, and this is the various size of the regions. So don't keep using it as unfair to Karlovy Vary, to Central Čechy, that's just not true. In Central Bohemia you need more votes than in Karlovy Vary. And I didn't count the other 12 counties, so it could also be different. After all, the Republican number, according to which the mandates are divided into regions, applies equally to all regions. So please stop comparing the largest and smallest region, it's not really in the electoral system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to be fairly brief. Firstly, I formally propose in the debate that we reduce the deadline for committee discussions to 15 days so that, if necessary, we may be able to discuss this proposal at second reading or, where appropriate, by Mr Excellent's proposal. Now just a brief remark: I'm not going into these political considerations here, but the Constitutional Court has acted in a very special way, d Hondt is a very common system, which on any larger parameter, on any larger element behaves quite relatively. The logical thing would be if he shut down the electoral regions, left d'Hondta, then we're normal. Since he did not do so, he seems to respect - and here I would also ask the government movement - simply the Czech Republic, despite being based on the political party system, has traditionally had regional candidates here since the 1989 revolution. We're used to it, and if we're talking about telling voters what they're supposed to understand, what Patrik Nacher was talking about so nicely here, then frankly, 99 percent of voters don't give a damn about how it's counted. Completely stolen, as counted, most of us will not understand the system that will be presented. Ninety-nine percent of the voters want to know who they're voting for, and our tradition here is that we're voting for the regions. By 1998, we chose the large, yet post-communist regions, after 1998 when the regional establishment was established, in the smaller regions. The idea that we have here that one constituency will help the Karlovy Vary - I am absolutely sure that there will be fewer members in one constituency than they are in today's state. Let's see if you can get a look at the candidates. I do not want to model it now, but I am absolutely sure that there should not be five Members, because everyone will feel that they will be ahead of themselves, people will still be jumping across national knowledge and so on and so on. So let's leave the current model. I don't think there's any point in dealing with that one county. And frankly, Slovakia - Mečiar has introduced one electoral region, and if any of us feel that Slovakia is an outburst of parliamentary democracy that we should follow, then please let it go there sometimes. In Slovakia, the system of one electoral region effectively led to the complete destruction of political parties as a national system and entity. There is no political party in Slovakia today, apart from the already disbanded Smer, with some tradition that would be represented in Parliament. These are all subjects that only have MPs and a leader. So I do not think, from the point of view of the Czech Constitution and from the point of view of its appeal, that the system is based on the competition of political parties, so I do not think that Slovakia is a good example for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. A real point, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to add to what President Benda said that in this proposal, the government really wants to take away the possibility of ringing for voters, because for the whole republic, the electorate will only have four rings, or this will affect the absolute minimum, perhaps the troops of Members who will gain more than 5% in the whole Czech Republic. So the winner who will need 80 Members, so only one or two of them will be the ones who got there based on ringing. So I think that the way around the regions where the voter has a candidate who can at least fit in his hand is one ticket, quite understandable, and he has such a number of people that he's going to award rings and he has a very good chance of getting into Parliament by him, it's much better than having only four rings for the whole giant candidate for the whole republic, and then, of course, he's choosing those candidates for the party leadership, which here appears to be a tendency. I think it's an unhealthy tendency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. We've developed the debate. With a point of fact, Mr Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u22	I would dare, Mr President, just to argue the clarity of the one system. I'm afraid that's not really true. Imagine the tarp where 200 candidates will be, and for example, the voters from Liberec will be looking for the first candidate from their region in 28th place, second to 61st and so on. Do we really think that this is an argument for greater clarity? I'm afraid not. And the valuable link between the Member, each of us, to his region, to the problems of the region, which are completely different in Prague, completely different in the Pardubice Region and completely different in the Moravian-Silesian Region, so there is also a need not to be forgotten. I think this is very important and everyone who is responsible for the work of a Member in our region is communicating with voters, with other important organisations, businesses, personalities and so on in the region, we will certainly confirm this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u24	Last remark: this is more of a constitutional-legal debate, so let us keep it on the constitutional-legal committee. I know the electoral system isn't very stable there, but Marek Benda filed a circuit that I know won't be, which I'm not saying is the best and only possible. If we have a perimeter here - 14 counties and it's okay, after all, I myself am a fan of ringing, because I only got to the House thanks to the rings. If there was one circuit, then of course ringing would probably remain, but it would have to be adjusted - more rings etc. But I'm sure one circuit isn't just about being in Slovakia and being led there by Mechiar. For example, we here in the House are all supporters and friends of the State of Israel. I understand, the electoral system isn't exactly perfect, but there's, for example, one circuit. So it's not just about Mečiar, but one circuit, especially for smaller states - and unfortunately, the Czech Republic is a smaller state - is quite something that is no exception, but it is quite common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Mr. Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman Michálek, by your means, Mr. President, you are talking about ringing, and then on the News List, we read that the pirát have processed their analysis, are afraid of the electoral jumpers, and have put anti-ring insurance in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u27	That was a quick deed! And immediately, Mr Martínek, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just briefly here on the hoax that was originally made on the List by being subtitled in the sense that there is a forbidden ringing or something like that. That's total nonsense. This is illegal, it would be against the sense of direct democracy at all, which of course we support. We only agreed fairly, as other parties agreed, such as the original coalition of STAN, KDU-ČSL, where the point came from, which was rewritten there, that we would not call for ringing. But it doesn't say anything about not ringing. Of course, we all want citizens to make decisions based on what they know about candidates, and not on how many private billboards one candidate makes, to send out private invitations to do, but to really get some work done. This is just a normal deal between two solid partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u29	Mr Grospič, a point of fact. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, originally I did not want to speak, so at least a factual remark. I would like to point out that we are talking here about something that the Constitutional Court has basically not discussed at all. The Constitutional Court annulled the provisions of Section 48, i.e. method of determining the number of Members elected in the electoral regions, then § 49 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) to (d) to (49) Article 4 (1) (a) b) to d), changing clauses for coalitions, then § 49 para. 4 - allocation of mandates in electoral parties within the electoral regions, then § 50 para. 1 to 3 - method of converting votes cast for electoral parties and mandates by means of d'Hondt's divisor at the level of the electoral regions, and then Section 51 - solutions to certain situations based on the method of converting votes into mandates. The Constitutional Court has not touched the electoral regions at all, their size and has not in itself stated that they are unconstitutional. So if we're talking about this here, if we're talking about one constituency, then we can commit this insurrection, because we're essentially entering the electoral law outside the Constitutional Court's decision and finding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u32	For the last time. I just wanted to alert my colleague Martínek. I was once the rapporteur of the law, which levelled campaigns and elections and various billboards and set the level for the campaign and funding of political parties and movements. Well, there are no private billboards, there are no private business cards, there are no private posters, my colleague. Just so you don't get into any trouble, through the President. Everything counts to the election limit for the campaign. So when you have a candidate in common with your colleagues at STAN, please don't do any private billboards. They don't exist. Everything counts to that limit. So watch it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-090-01-001-001.u33	I'm looking around the hall to see if anyone else is still reporting for the debate, I don't see anybody. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will deal with the commandments of the committees. First, the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. I will wait and repeat to those who have now come into the hall: we are voting on the guarantee committee, which is to be the constitutionally-legal committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 106 Members registered, for 102, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee. I ask if there is anyone in plenary who would propose another committee. I don't see anyone. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline to 15 days, proposed by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 103, for 100, against no one. The motion was accepted. We cut the deadline to 15 days. I end the first reading of this law, I end this point, and at the same time we have exhausted the 90th meeting, which I also end with. We're gonna need, I suppose, a moment of tech. Ten minutes? So we'll continue the 87th meeting at 15.00.
