ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u1	333. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - third reading We're going back to the third reading we interrupted a while ago. I would ask that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take a seat at the rapporteur's table. I don't see the Minister anywhere, so I'll either be forced to interrupt the meeting or interrupt the discussion of this press. Please, please, the Social Democracy Club, if it could resolve or announce this situation... Three minutes, okay. Then I will interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 13.25 so that we can continue. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 13.21 to 13.25 hours.]] It is 13.25, so the time has passed for which I have interrupted this meeting and discussed this point, so we are returning again to paragraph 333, which is the Government's bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws. Both Minister Jana Maláčová and Mrs Jana Pastuchová, as rapporteur, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table, so we can continue with the interrupted debate. I would therefore give the floor to Mr Bauer, whom I interrupted during the lecture of his position. I have also noted the motion to repeat the second reading, which I have marked, we will vote before... I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room so we can continue the negotiations. Mr Bauer made a motion in his speech to repeat his second reading. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, I think you can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, dear colleagues, and at the request of the Minister, because I ended up somewhere in the middle of the sentence, I will start from the beginning, so with your permission I would like to reiterate that I have tabled a motion for a revision of this bill at second reading, and allow me only briefly to give the opinion of the Civic Democratic Party MEP on this proposal. The view is really the same and unchangeable for a long time. The position of the ODS on the amendment to the Act on the provision of services in a children's group has been quite clear since the beginning and we repeatedly declare it publicly. We believe that this proposal should not have entered into a legislative process at all. It deserved to be returned to the government for recasting, so as to address purely and exclusively the financing of children's groups after European resources cannot be used for their creation and further development. That's what I said here, until some point in time, we had the possibility of children's groups finding a place under the sun to finance or co-finance from European sources. Unfortunately, they won't be available, and we have suggested that other sources be found, as well as national ones. I repeat, I am really very sorry that we did not find any support for this proposal for revision at first reading. It is absolutely unimaginable for us, however, that the government is destroying one of the few things that has helped thousands of families in recent years and which, moreover, is returning to the state register the resources that the state has put into it, I have already talked about this here today, because children's groups have untied their hands to thousands of families with young children throughout the Republic and have enabled, and that is crucial, the return of the parents of these children to work. That's what we've all been calling for the entire term. Instead of the family and friendly environment of the children's groups, the government wants to return us to the institutions of the nursery of regulated and scrambled rules. I find it to be a complete mockery of the argument that this will improve the quality of care. I have also heard about this many times in recent months, especially from the mouths of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I confess that I have personally traveled around a number of children's groups, I have received about as much as all hundreds of e-mails, but I have to say that, apart from minor exceptions, I have not registered a single bad experience with the operation of these devices, on the contrary. I think it should be recalled that thanks to children's groups and their flexibility, children with various disabilities or with other special needs have also found background. It's also a well-known thing. But it's not the only thing that's taking me out of my chair in connection with the children's groups. I was absolutely shocked by the sentences of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, who compared children's groups to a luxury matter for the upper middle class. I consider it absolutely outrageous words. I don't know why she was even spoken out. [[13.30 hours]] On the contrary, by building a nursery just for the smallest and driving older children to kindergartens, where there are, of course, no places left, and they are bound by rigour, they will only achieve that many completely normal families will have nothing left but to pay for private and, in this case, really expensive kindergartens. After all, some of the colleagues here spoke of this in a heated way in the debate. In other words, it will achieve exactly the opposite effect than the Ministry, or the government promises to people. Finally, I would like to say that in the vote, we will support proposals that improve the situation of future children's groups or nursery groups in any way compared to the original government draft, so that we will support all those we think are for the benefit of the matter. However, we are aware that the law will, in any form whatsoever, bring about their actual liquidation, unfortunately. That's what's been said out of my mouth today, too. That is why I want to make a public promise under the ODS that if we are in the next government, we will consider the return of children's groups to the form in which we know them today as our priority in the social field. We will not just talk about support for families and parental freedom to choose what is best for our children. Children's groups and their associated freedom of decision will be returned to their children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u3	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová is another member of the debate, but she has informed me that she is withdrawing this application. Next is Mrs Jarošová, but I believe she is duly excused. It is therefore the turn of Mr Čižinský. Please, Mr Čižinský, in the general debate. Mrs. Golasowská will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u4	Thank you for the floor. Please feel truly at this point in time the people who are watching us here and who are in charge of the children's groups. There are more delays today. Today, people are being reported for financial reasons, for work reasons, to other facilities, and these people are watching us, waiting to hear what signal we're sending, whether they're going to have to cancel the children's group with a heavy heart, or if they're going to hold it. In the course of the discussion, it was found, among other things, that many of us had tables on the workload of kindergarten schools, but unfortunately the regions most affected by the lack of places in kindergarten schools were not in those tables. There were county towns missing, all of them missing, bigger than the county towns. Mrs Kovářová asks for an exception for small municipalities. I would like to ask for the support of the amendment, which will allow this exception for all municipalities. I believe that municipalities are able to assess where the children's group is good to have. I don't know why it should be just small communities that will be able to have children over the age of three. I believe that even the large municipalities are able to offer an alternative and are able to allow parents to bring their children into one facility, and this should be the case. Furthermore, I would like to ask if you cannot or do not find the incentive to cancel the age limit, so at least move the limit to four years of age. Four plus. This will also help, and it has some logic, because five-year-olds are legally required to be in kindergarten or to be in rehearsal. So the compromise is to support at least the four-year limit. I was glad to hear that the lighting requirements, that perhaps they will be supported, that they will not apply. This will certainly help to see some light at the end of the tunnel to children's groups that would otherwise end, because they will have no perspective. However, I believe that it would be best to return it to second reading, to leave the children's groups that work now, to further funding, and to introduce the rules for the others that will be established. We wouldn't destroy anything, we wouldn't hurt anything. People could go to work, and the system would slowly go to the one proposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u5	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will respond with a factual point and Mrs Richterová will then be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u6	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say, in response to the article that came out about this debate, just for the record, that I have nothing against day care, and I don't mind at all, that the nursery should be created or the ones that work here develop. I merely refuse to eliminate children's groups as we know them today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u7	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová also wants to respond. With a point of fact or with a priority right, I'll ask? With priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Since we are in the debate, I would like to read legislative technical amendments. I would be the first to read legislative technical amendments: and in the votes of 14, 15, 16, 19, 28 and 29, D22 is deleted from the list of further unvoting amendments, because it has already been voted on at the beginning of the fourth vote. Next. I propose under Section 95 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u9	I will interrupt you, Madame. That sounded like an adjustment to the procedure, not a change in the legislative text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u10	Can I have some legislation, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u11	Just make sure we don't get confused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u12	I am so sorry, Mr President. That was a bad deal with legislation. [[Noise in the hall.]] So I would read legislatively technical. I propose that Article 95 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, correcting the date of application of the bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 961, as follows: "I. In Part I, point (b) is replaced by the following: Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) II. In Part I, point (b) is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 10 "1 July 2021" is replaced by "1 October 2021." I'd like to give a little reason. In view of the course of the legislative process, it is clear that the original date of entry into force from 1 July 2021 will not be fulfilled. However, since 2022 the draft law has introduced the possibility to finance the operation of nursery services through -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u13	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. There's a lot of noise in the room. I can barely hear you. I'm going to ask your colleagues to remain calm so that we can see the legislative corrections that have been loaded. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u14	One more sentence. However, the draft law introduces from 2022 the possibility to finance the operation of nursery services through a contribution to the operation of nursery facilities, which must be applied for by 31 October 2021. It is therefore necessary that the amendment becomes effective by 1 October 2021 at the latest and that the service providers have sufficient scope to complete the application and submit it. Application for administration of the application will be launched simultaneously with the effectiveness of the law, this is 1 October 2021. Given that the request will be very simple, most data will be pre-filled from the register of providers of children's groups or nursery facilities, a period of one month will be sufficient to submit the request. [[13.40 hours]] Following the amendment of the date of application of the draft law, it is necessary, provided that the provisions are not otherwise affected by other amendments, also to adapt the dates in Part I of the Act. 1 point 14 of Section 5 of the Government Bill and in Part I of the Art. 2 point 4 of the Government Bill. In the event that there is no date in Part I of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) In the event that the efficiency would occur later than 1 October 2021, funding would therefore not be provided for the providers for 2022. This could really lead to the demise of most children's groups, which would adversely affect about 15,000 families. So that's for the legislative tech, and that's it for me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u15	Yes, thank you. This was, therefore, a legislative technical follow-up to the possible effectiveness adjustment, which we will then deal with at the beginning of the vote. There is now Mrs Richterová in the general debate. I will warn you that at 13.50 we have a fixed next point, so if the Member fails to finish her speech, I will again be forced to interrupt it and get the floor when we reopen this point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u16	Thank you. There are still no answers to my questions. In the debate, I asked what is the agreement of the government coalition, or government coalition and supporters of the government coalition, i.e. the KSČM, on the contribution, on financing and its amount. There were only isolated opinions, but not a deal. And that's the first and main question I want an answer to. In order for children's groups to continue to function, it simply needs to be clear what the government intends to approve in that decree, it must be clear how the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour agreed. And the Ministry of Education is probably the only one who's gonna get into this. I have already mentioned here - and this is something I am really sorry that there was no answer to this - that once this government agreement is not, once there are other numbers coming from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, other numbers from Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and there are no yes numbers, we cannot be sure that children's groups can continue to function wisely. So that's the first thing - a deal on money. Second thing: there were a lot of different accusations about things that made me feel like they were in the wind. As long as the secretary doesn't explain and answer the questions that didn't work well today, what the things that really can prove are a problem, I just don't understand why to change it. I'll just remind you very briefly, because I didn't get an answer and the secretary mentioned it. It mentioned that criminal charges were filed in relation to these pre-school establishments. I asked how many there were. She mentioned that somewhere only minimum wages were paid to those employees, most often. I asked again where it is, how often it is, because I don't have that kind of information about something, so I was interested in the numbers, the facts, to back up the claims. There was no answer. I was also wondering who would set up the nursery that the secretary spoke of repeatedly. It's kind of implied in the background: that's how they're going to set up a community in kindergarten. But it is not in itself, the cost of building a nursery is considerable. So, once again, if this is an argument, we need a plan to get to them, a plan to fund this construction. And so is the fourth question: what will happen to the older children now that kindergartens are fully occupied? What will happen to children at the age of four who are now in children's groups and will not be able to be there after the change? And here it just sounds like silence, it'll work out, it'll work out. But I really can't. It's just about thousands of places, a total of 15,000 to 16,000 places, and it's about making the whole thing work. And when I'm here in a situation where we're trying to find a solution, and actually all of a sudden, it sounds here that, after our criticism, for example, the tightening of technical parameters, and that's the sixth point, would be liquidation, would be going to close some of the children's groups, so here it sounds that this particular amendment to lighting, which would be unnecessarily tightened, should pass. So I would have one request: why, for God's sake, Madam Secretary, don't you call a meeting where there would really be a point by point to go over the reservations, why doesn't there just be a functional solution? A functional solution that would take into account that the set age limit, as your government coalition proposes, is too strict and that you may have no basis at all why the age limit of those three years, the sharp transformation of the so-called raising or other child care versus education. It would also appear that there is no need to modify the qualification in the way it is designed. I would recommend that we keep how the children's nanny programme is proposed by the start of compulsory schooling today, but I support the extension of the education obligation, including health. We have talked about this several times, that unfortunately, as it is now proposed in this law, it will not only mean further education, which, as I stress again, is fine, but it will also mean further trials. And because the exam in this area means not only x days of education, work that those caring people, several thousand carers, will have to take the day off, but also the next day for the whole exam, plus the cost of the examiner, and that's just the kind of thing where the state can order people, but it doesn't make sense. That was a qualification. And a reasonable compromise was not found. This might as well have been an opportunity to sort out pre-school standards. Mrs Aulická spoke of this repeatedly, that the standards for pre-school facilities seem to be too strict. It's Decree No. 410/2005 Coll. But nothing like that system opened up again. Just as we need to systemically support two-year-olds in kindergartens to make more money for kindergartens, so it pays off - they finance smaller groups with two-year-olds, that would be systemic and fair - we also need to evaluate whether we do not have excessively strict standards in the area of preschool care from the point of view of construction-technical. Next point. In addition to the criticism and questions about how this is supposed to work, there are just regional differences, that there are completely different wages in Prague, completely different wages that you need to pay also in the Central Bohemia Region or in South Bohemia. There is a great shortage of places for young children in these regions, and because it is a surface stopwatch, a flat ceiling, it threatens to do so, and why we are discussing here is that in some regions the shortage of places for young children will deepen. Instead of showing a fair way, a way to build these places, how to develop pre-school care, there are only words - words about how this change is good for something. And when we say that we really can't see the way without a preschool nursery plan and no plan what happens to those kids in the children's groups who can't walk into them anymore, how it's supposed to happen without such a plan, the answer is silence. [[13.50 hours]] And in this situation, where we do not have a guaranteed agreement on the amount of state contribution from the coalition, we do not guarantee that the system will work, and we do not guarantee that it would be accepted by the operator at all, because they are incredibly unhappy of it - and each of us probably received a lot of emails, maybe many of you as well as I have visited the children's groups and you know that this is simply not so far that they would want the change as it is proposed, rather the other way around - so in this situation please do not wonder that it is proposed to return to second reading, it is designed to negotiate a compromise, and just as with the foster care law, where I am sorry that it has not yet been discussed, but the second reading is, and it is for the purpose of negotiating a functional solution, so I think that this should also happen with the Child Groups Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-04-ps2017-104-06-006-333.u17	Thank you, madam, if she's finished her speech. I did, okay. The Member wishes to be interrupted, in which case I am interrupting it. I will point out that Mr Bláha is registered with a factual remark, and now I have no choice but to interrupt this point, because at 13.50 we have a fixed new point. This is the point
