ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 100th session of the Chamber of Deputies, the Jubilee, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 57 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, April 20th. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Holík and a Member of František Kopřiva. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anybody, I'll call in my co-workers from the lobby. [[Gong. The President shall speak outside the microphone with Mr Stanjura.]] There. There's enough of us now. I repeat that we are voting on the persons of the verifiers. Initiating vote. Who is for the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number 1 of our 100th meeting, 81 Members signed in for 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed members of Jaroslav Holík and František Kopřiva as verifiers of the 100th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In agreement with the Presidents of all Members' Clubs, I declare that there was no need to apologise in writing before the opening of the meeting and that everyone is deemed to be excused on the basis of this very agreement. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jakub Kulhánek - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. Today is April 29th, and it's my colleague Ivan Jáč's birthday, so happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] We should now proceed to the 100th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. The chairman of the ODS club warned me that no member of the government was present. I have information that he's on his way. Anyway, I'm gonna stop for ten minutes... [[He's speaking briefly to a PS Office worker.]] Well, I'm interrupting for five minutes to start, because the secretary is on his way, so we'll continue with the 9.10 vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-000-000.u2	We've got nine... ten past, we still don't have a member of the government. I have a proposal for further action. In case anyone objects, of course, we would have done differently, but... I suggest that, first of all, on the proposal of the Pirates Club, we agree on a program so that we know where we stand, and then we can wait for a member of the government. There's no one here yet. If no one objects to this procedure in order to vote whether or not we approve the agenda for this meeting, this will depend on the next procedure. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I repeat, we will vote on the approval of the agenda for this meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number two. Registered 94 Members, for 71, against 1. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We will now proceed to two items on the agenda to which the merged debate has been interrupted. And since there is no member of the government, I have to interrupt, and this time for 10 minutes. Madam Secretary is on his way and should appear. So we'll continue at 9.23 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 9.23, we can proceed, we have two members of the government present. I'll read a few more apologies. Minister Karel Havlíček apologizes today for the whole working day, Minister Petr Arenberger apologizes today for the whole working day, and Minister Jan Hamáček apologizes for today's meeting due to participation in the Senate, also for working reasons. I am opening points 1 and 2, for which there is actually a merged debate.
