ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u1	39. Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Václav Klaus, Pavla Golasowská, Marian Jurečka, Pavel Bělobrádek, Stanislav Juránek, Ondřej Benešík, Jan Čižinský, Marek Výborný, Jan Bartošek and Jiří Mihola for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 896/ - second reading Mr Vít Kaňkovský, to whom I give the floor, shall state the motion submitted for the applicant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u2	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to remind you of the MP of Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on granting benefits to people with disabilities, and at the same time I want to thank you for allowing it to be discussed at second reading, because I think they are waiting for this disability, so thanks to you. In substance, this proposal concerns only one part of this law, and this is the process of exchanging licences for people with disabilities and further clearer or more accurate definition of groups of those with disabilities who have permanent adverse health status and permanently adverse functional restrictions, so that they have a permanent identity card for persons with disabilities and are not invited to any periodic medical examinations. I already mentioned it at first reading. Thankfully, there are no large numbers of people at the moment, it has to be said that this has improved significantly, but there are still questionable cases every year. It is also a little different in the region, and it is good that we define clearly how to treat these people, so that some of them do not feel discriminated against. I think it's very important. The third area is the exchange of the card itself, because the card, apart from the fact that it may have limited validity from the point of view of its own right, has a limited validity of the card itself, the identity card itself, due to biometric data, because each of us is changing over the years, which means that the card is being renewed as a card. And there we want not only because of the covido situation, where it is even more difficult for disabled people than ever, but also in non-covid times, the process has been automated as much as possible, and we propose that the client, the citizen, should be invited by the Office of Labour to document the new two current photos, and then issued an automatic or automated new ID. That was the intention of our novel. Even before the meeting of the Guarantee Committee, we clarified with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs some substantive and legislative disputes or some misunderstanding, and I must say that we have not been able to find common ground in the negotiations of the Guarantee Committee. The Guarantee Committee, and this will be discussed by the rapporteur, has nevertheless approved our proposal and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies be approved. However, I must appreciate that, after the meeting of the guarantee committee - and we had several consultations before the meeting - the representatives of the Ministry again, namely Deputy Minister Jirková and after consulting the Minister, have discussed the proposal again and the result is an amendment which will be presented to you by our esteemed colleague Alena Gajdůškovášková, who will present it to me. There have been some legislative amendments to our original proposal. I am also saying that I agree with these amendments as a petitioner, which is why I have also co-signed under the proposal, and there is still an extension of the proposal, which I consider to be very important, by adding two important groups of people with disabilities to the law. For one thing, these are severe states of autistic spectrum disorders, an area that we have repeatedly addressed here in previous discussions of this law, and we all know that families that care about the autistic loved ones, that their fate - both those affected and those families themselves - is incredibly complex. They cannot yet draw benefits, for example, on the purchase of a motor vehicle, despite the fact that many of these autistic children and sometimes adults are unable to travel by public public transport because they have hyperactive states, have some aggression and it is very difficult to travel by regular bus or tram with them. So this group of people should add to the law's scope of the amendment, and so should the other population, and these are people who have a severe form of dementia at the same time as movement restrictions. However, this will be discussed more closely by colleague Alena Gajdůškovášková. Dear colleagues, I firmly believe that you will also support this bill at third reading. I would very much like you to support our joint amendment, which my colleague Gajdůškovášková will present, and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u3	Thank you, too. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 896/2 and 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u4	Thank you for the floor. As has already been said here, the first reading took place on 30 September last year and the House Press was ordered as a guarantee committee of the Committee on Social Policy. The Committee on Social Policy acted on 4 November 2020 and, following the justification of the representative of the petitioner, Mr Kaňkovský, the committee suspended the discussion in the general debate until 10 December last year. On January 6, he acted again, and I will read you the resolution. Resolution of the 66th meeting of 6 January 2021 on the proposal by Members of Vít Kaňkovský and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, House press 896: "After the justification of the representative of the group of petitioners Vít Kaňkovský, the report by Mrs Lenka Dražilová and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the proposal of Members of Vít Kaňkovský and others for the issue of the law; and 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u5	I thank you and open the debate in which I have Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Kaňkovský very and very much for presenting this bill with his colleagues. It seems to be a small matter, but it concerns people who just don't have a life as simple as a healthy person, which is why I think it's our duty to take care of and help them in that destiny. When I drive on the highway, I read there in one place on a billboard: it's never too late to help others. And I like it very much, and I think it's quite useful at the outset of this hearing. [[16.10 hours]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the content of the complex amendment. As Mr Kaňkovský has already said, our joint amendment is that we propose extending the entitlement to selected benefits for disabled people, but we also adjust some of the points of the original proposal in order to comply with the Government's comments on the original proposal. The extension is based on an adjustment concerning the entitlement to the special aid which the Ministry of Labour originally incorporated into the amendment to the Act on the granting of benefits to disabled persons, which has already been approved on 25 January at the Government's meeting, but because we fear that this amendment may no longer be met by the House, we use the fact that this law is open and put it as an amendment to the draft law of Mr Kaňkovský and others. Thank you again for the opportunity to join us. The main objective was to make it possible to qualify for a special motor vehicle aid for people with autistic spectrum disorders. My colleague Kaňkovský has already mentioned this. At present, this allowance can only be granted if there is at the same time a severe mental disability in persons with autism. However, for a number of people with autism and their carers, the road through mass transport is a major complication, and indeed. In this way, people with autistic spectrum disorder who, despite treatment in place, have serious aggression, could also receive a contribution. It can be expected that the new contribution to the car, in the law is provided up to a maximum of CZK 200,000, will help up to 500 people with autistic spectrum disorder and their families every year. Another objective of the proposal is to allow entitlement to the contribution to the special aid to persons with dementia. A colleague of Kaňkovský also pointed out this. People with dementia, i.e. a disability that occurs after the second year of age, are not entitled to a special aid today. The state is expected to help them with the purchase of, for example, platforms, raid skis or bathroom modification financing. We just want to help improve their mobility at home and outside. In turn, it should be recalled that people with dementia suffer from problems of orientation, walking and mobility over time and their home environment is very important and very important to them. In the case of platforms, they can obtain up to 400,000 crowns, 350,000, for example, in the case of bathroom modifications. Every year, up to 300 people with dementia can receive this allowance. The contents of the proposed amendment are also professional changes. In the case of a motor vehicle allowance, the procedure shall be adjusted when the vehicle price is known in advance. The mobility allowance then simplifies the management of the suspension and renewal of the contribution due to hospitalization. The expected impact on the state budget is CZK 244 million per year. As I announced at the outset, the amendment also interferes with the original bill, as presented by the petitioner. The amendment amends the original point 3, when it is proposed that the automatic permanent entitlement to the licence of a disabled person should be possible only for persons over 18 years of age. There we very much understand the intentions of the petitioners, we really need to perceive the need to help children with disabilities, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs here points out, and it needs to be taken into account that the chances of improving the health situation in children are about much greater than in elderly people or in people of working age. With regard to overall and rapid development, children have a great opportunity to adapt in combination with existing and expected advances in medical science and it is quite possible - and we would like this - to improve their mobility or orientation in the course of further development despite some obvious and permanent disability in these children. It is therefore appropriate to establish the validity of opinions in children for a period when improvements in health status or progress in their development can be expected. In children of low age, it is also a problem of accurate diagnosis. Another modification of the original design of point 3 is the elimination of two medical conditions, for which I should have granted the licence on an automatic basis. In case of ZTP, we propose to remove from the automatic right to permanent ID, in layman's terms, paralysis of the lower limb and, in the case of ZTP/P, the paralysis of the lower limb and at the same time the paralysis of the upper limb. The point, again, is that these conditions can improve further treatment, surgery, or rehabilitation, according to doctors. But there's no way, and I'm stressing that, there's no way that this doesn't rule out a permanent claim where it makes sense. Again it is the fact that 80 percent of licences are already granted on a permanent basis today. And I'm coming to a conclusion. We also slightly adjust the obligation of the regional branch of the Labour Office to inform the holder of the licence before the end of the validity of the licence. We want this to concern not only situations where only the plastic card expires and the claim takes time, only the card will be changed and the health condition will not be assessed, but also the situation where health will have to be assessed for further entitlement. We are correcting point 2, because the one that was originally written by legislation would not be advantageous for persons who have already been granted a permanent licence. The rule that no health assessment is required for the district social security administration at the mere end of the validity of the plastic card must apply to all persons with permanent entitlement to the card. This rule shall not apply only to those persons who are permanently entitled to a licence pursuant to the amendment submitted. I must also point out that the amendment also includes a shift of efficiency to 1. 1. 2022. Initial proposed efficiency from 1. 1. 2021 has already failed, not possible. After all, the adjustment requires some sort of legisvacancing, so it is necessary to prepare a change of decree, change of application program and many others. Although we wish we could help people with disabilities immediately and immediately, that time is still needed there. And I thank, once again, Mr Kaňkovský and all others who are the proponents of this proposal very much and very much for the agreement on the amendment, including communication with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I believe that the approval of the amendment, which we have actually presented to you together, will provide important assistance for disabled people and their carers. That's why I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u7	Thank you. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. No, so I'm opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is enrolled in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u8	Thank you. Now I'm just gonna be very short. I hereby sign up for the amendment to my Member and Mr Kaňkovský with the number in the 7302 system. I have already given reasons in the general debate and the written justification is part of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u9	Thank you. I have no one else entered into the detailed debate, and I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Yes, the plaintiff, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u10	Have a good afternoon again. I thank my colleague Gajdůšková for the detailed presentation of the amendment, thank you all for having been able to discuss this point. And just a quick remark. Of course, the amendment is the result of a compromise. As a petitioner, I can say that I agree with the launch of a group of people under the age of 18, there can actually be an improvement in both health and functional findings. As for the other releases, there is, of course, a technical discussion, but I must say that I consider this a reasonable compromise. Once again, I appreciate the fact that by extending the scope of the law for certain types of aids and the contribution to the purchase of motor vehicles for autistic spectrum disorders, it really helps families who are very affected. I stress this, and I very much appreciate that, and so is the Government resolution of February 2019, which gave the ministries the task of addressing the situation of families with an autistic spectrum in this regard. So thank you both for your attention and for your support for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-003-039.u11	Thank you and I finish second reading of this proposal. The next fixed point will be the point
