ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u1	468. Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources and its implementation at national level ( House Document 7528/ I ask the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's meeting, there is a point in the Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources and its implementation at national level. Thank you very much for that. The decision on own resources was already addressed on 3 February by the Committee on European Affairs, which also recommended its consideration in plenary. The plenary of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with a package of legislative proposals for the multiannual financial framework - I will also use the abbreviation VFR - 2021 to 2027 including the EU instrument to support recovery, the so-called recovery plan and decision on the system of own resources, introduced and dealt with in July 2020 in the framework of a discussion on the mandate for the European Council meeting. The Chamber of Deputies, in its resolution, invited, among other things, the Government to seek to adopt the proposed recovery plan, including its financing. As you know, after a five-day meeting, the European Council finally reached agreement on the form of VFR on 21 July, including a new EU instrument to support the recovery of 750 billion euros and their financing. The Government of the Czech Republic, represented by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, fulfilled the key resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Following intensive negotiations during the autumn, both with the European Parliament and subsequently with Poland and Hungary, on 10 December 2020, the European Council has also succeeded in unlocking the stalemate on the issue of consistency in protecting the EU budget and finding compromise solutions, which has also opened the way for approval of the entire VFR. The entire package of legislation on the EU's multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan - including the proposal for a Council decision on own resources - was agreed by the Council and the European Parliament in mid-December. This brings me to the very content of the Council's new decision on own resources. The decision now contains, in particular, key provisions empowering the European Commission to borrow money in the financial markets to finance the recovery plan. This is a fundamental change from decisions on own resources approved at the beginning of previous programming periods. That is why there has never been such a time pressure in the past to approve this legislation. The EU budget can be used to a greater extent than it has been before as a guarantee for European Commission borrowings on financial markets. This appropriation will subsequently be used in the framework of the EU budget to finance the recovery programme in the form of grants, such as the Recovery and Resistance Facility, the Fair Transformation Fund or the Cohesion Policy Fund, or to be provided to Member States in the form of loans to finance investments and reforms as defined in their national recovery plans. The amendments to the draft Council decision on own resources also reflect the introduction of a new own resource based on the amount of non-recycled plastic packaging waste, where Member States will take 0,8 euro into the EU budget for each kilogram of non-recycled plastic waste. The appropriations from this own resource shall partly replace the existing GNI resource. However, in order for the decision on own resources to enter into force definitively, it must also be approved in the Member States first, in accordance with Union law. Therefore, the national decision-approval process is now under way in individual countries. The aim and aim is to complete this approval already during this spring so that funds from the recovery plan can be used as soon as possible. The discussion of the Council's decision on own resources in both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is therefore an important step which will subsequently enable the Government of the Czech Republic to notify the approval of this legal act at national level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, Adam Kalous, take the floor and inform us of the committee's discussion. Mr. Ambassador, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members. Following the agreement on the multiannual financial framework and recovery support instruments of July 2020, the Council of the European Union adopted a package on the multiannual financial framework, including the decision on own resources, on 14 December 2020. The decision on own resources will allow the European Commission to borrow up to 750 billion euro on capital markets. The reason is to launch a European Union plan to support the recovery of Next Generation and address the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis in Europe. The recovery plan may be launched only after all the Member States of the European Union have completed the ratification process. The rapid ratification of decisions on own resources for the recovery of Europe is now crucial. The TFEU states in Article 311 that a decision already taken and published in the Official Journal shall enter into force only after approval by the Member States in accordance with their constitutional requirements. In the Czech Republic, unlike other countries, there is no specific procedure for this approval. However, from a legal point of view, the approval procedure was completed by discussing this document at the 64th meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, which was 3 February 2021, and formally no further approval in both chambers is necessary. However, the Government's interest, in particular the Ministry of Finance's interest, is to inform Parliament and gain greater democratic legitimacy in the process of adopting this decision by discussing this proposal in both chambers. Let me inform you, therefore, of the wording of resolution 408 on the information of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic on the Council's decision on the system of the European Union's own resources and on its implementation at national level adopted by the Committee on European Affairs on 3 February 2021 at its 64th meeting. "The Committee on European Affairs takes note of the information of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic on the Council's decision on the system of EU own resources and its implementation at national level." Mr Vice-President, I also propose the same resolution to vote here in plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the information of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic on the Council's decision on the system of EU own resources and its implementation at national level." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u5	Well, thank you. I am now launching a general debate in which a single Member has entered, and it is Mr František Kopřiva. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, ratification is in progress, or it would be enough to discuss the Committee on European Affairs. However, it must be borne in mind that, in this de facto way, we will ratify not only the increase in the EU budget ceilings, but also the loan of the Next Generation of the EU of EUR 750 billion, which will create precisely the scope for drawing on the loan and the expenditure of this instrument to support recovery and resilience, or recovery fund, as it is called. I don't know if it's here - I'm not sure it's said here, so just to know that it's not a fundamental change in some way, but it will allow the implementation of a recovery fund, which, in turn, can move the European economy, which is Czech, towards a modern and sustainable economy. To date, the ceiling for own resources has been 1.3 % of the sum of the gross national pensions of all Member States, and it is appropriate to point out here that the EU's multiannual financial frameworks have always been below this ceiling of own resources and have always been balanced. So it is the first time that the EU borrows on capital markets through the European Commission to better deal with and bridge the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The ceiling is now permanently increasing by 0.16%, i.e. newly to 1.46 percent, and the ceiling is temporarily increasing by 0.6 % to 2.06 percent, but by no more than 2058, when it is calculated that the entire payment should be paid at the latest. This temporarily increased ceiling is linked only to the repayment of the loan, or it cannot be possible, for example, without further ratification, to borrow a new loan or any further increase in the revenue or expenditure of the European budget. The whole objective of this is not to have to increase the contributions of net payers to the Union budget, which sooner or later will be us, although we are still clean beneficiaries, so we should be careful about this. At the same time, the aim is not to reduce the expenditure of the multiannual financial framework, i.e. the existing funds that we draw from. It is also appropriate to point out that Member States will continue to have exactly the same control, as they will continue to approve unanimously both the multiannual financial framework and, together with the European Parliament, the annual EU budgets. Moreover, it has combined with the reform of its own income and its implementation, because the way in which funds have been collected through value added tax has long been criticised as too administratively complex. So the aim of this new system is greater transparency, simplification and stabilisation of EU funds, at the same time, say greater predictability and contributions of net payers and so on. It also actually gives the European Commission, the EU budget, more room for manoeuvre, but, as I have stated, Member States can still control and influence this. The purpose of new own revenue is to cover, on the one hand, areas in which the EU already has competence, such as customs or emission allowances, which the EU already does - we no longer choose as Member States alone, or we choose, but it is managed centrally through the EU, because it is more efficient - and who is to be taxed or what is to be taxed, that is the question that we have already discussed here at the House's July meeting and several times on the Committee on European Affairs. The discussion was quite broad, but from our point of view, the taxed areas make sense because they are in line with the general and long-term policies of the European Union, which we have also joined. This is intended to be linked to achieving common objectives, such as preparing for the effects of climate change or preparing for other, for example, health crises and so on. Now about the particular taxes, or maybe we can tell the customs, that sounds like a better label to me. What is already included there, what is in a rather advanced phase of discussion, is the tax on non-recyclable plastic packaging. This will therefore be chosen by the Member States at their discretion. We can set it at national level according to our needs, how we act. The aim is, say, to support the circular economy and, as a result, reduce the amount of plastic waste. Then other own resources are considered, on which there is no consensus, or there is no consensus on what parameters they will have and so on. But once again, it makes sense to me, for example, the carbon balance at the borders, which was quite controversial. But I think that this is fully in line with what we have all been saying here, and for example on the European Committee, we often talk about it, that if the whole world is going to reduce emissions and CO2 we must not apply those standards only within the EU, on our own, but we must reflect it in diplomacy and in trade with third countries and with powers that really have high emissions both per capita or absolute numbers. This duty should prevent so-called carbon leakage, or that products will be produced in countries where standards are lower, then cheaper, imported into the EU, leaving another emission footprint, and then our European and therefore Czech businesses will not be competitive, because imported products have been produced at lower standards, so they will be cheaper, so this will also increase the competitiveness of our companies. As I have already mentioned, this will help to promote climate standards outside the EU. If I remember correctly, it was in at least one resolution by the Committee on European Affairs that the EU should place emphasis on the quotation marks of exports of emission climate standards outside Europe, so that we would not be alone in order to motivate other powers and countries to meet climate commitments and possibly set more ambitious targets. Other taxes considered are the digital tax that we talked about here in the Czech Republic, the government itself proposed it at the Czech level. The discussion, if I'm not mistaken, is kind of on ice right now, because once again it is probably more systemic, easier and more effective to deal with at a European level. There is still waiting for some recommendations from the OECD and so on, but it is certainly appropriate that those giant Internet giants pay the same taxes as our companies, for example, that Google should pay similar taxes as the List, because it is currently valid, if I am not mistaken, in order of several order less, which is simply not fair to our own companies and favours the biggest players on the market, which is simply unacceptable in the long run. Furthermore, there is thought to be an extension of the EU emissions trading system to other sectors, I believe there is shipping and so on. I'm not going to forgive such a procedural remark yet. In fact, when the whole plan to support the recovery of Europe was discussed - it was a set of several documents, several European acts, so we discussed this on the Committee on European Affairs - there was no consensus, or we agreed that it would be better to discuss this in the House plenary, such a crucial matter, EUR 750 billion, repayment over the next 30 years, it is not so small. So we wanted to put it here in plenary, but then there was some mistake in translation and at the last, 56th meeting last July we had a point here only Information of the Prime Minister about the position of government to plan to support the recovery of Europe. We have adopted a consensual resolution on this from my point of view, or most of the House has agreed on a rather constructive resolution, I think, towards the government and the European Commission. However, it was a resolution only on the point of Government Information, so the Czech Chamber of Deputies, unlike the Senate European Committee, did not accept any position on this issue as such. So, when some colleagues stand here in a few years with the European Union deciding on us without us in Brussels, please remember that we have missed the opportunity to comment on this. [[15.00 hours]] Of course, we could probably formally take it away now, sort of put that point in place, I think that's point 304, but now we'd go ahead with it, because the Prime Minister has already supported it, it's already approved at both Council and European Parliament level, the Senate Committee has said that, but there's nothing to be done here in the House, but there's nothing else to be done. Maybe I'd put in a good word for us to discuss this in time next time. This is basically ratification, this is already a finished regulation, which we have no choice but to retaliate, but - as I said at the beginning of my speech - the Pirates club supports the Council's decision on the system of own resources and its implementation at national level, and other considered European Union's own revenue makes sense, and we will be happy to offer cooperation to the government in discussing other taxes or duties at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u7	Mr Ondřej Benešík will now speak with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club and Mr Skopeček will be prepared with the opinion of the ODS Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. As has been said here repeatedly, the process on the revenue side has basically been completed. The Chamber of Deputies is not part of the approval process in this regard, but the agreement at European level was such that this absolutely essential issue would be discussed with national parliaments. I would therefore rather focus on the expenditure side of the matter, which will be implemented through the so-called national recovery plan, which is a document setting out priorities and areas for which the money package will be around 173 billion. The crown is spent. Like any crisis, the situation caused by pandemics is meant to lead us to move forward and look for innovative solutions, not to stagnate on the ground, to preserve our old approaches and to address exclusively our current current problems. The advocate of innovation is both KDU-ČSL and the European Union, which called its plan a flagrant plan to promote recovery and resilience. However, the state of preparation of the national recovery plan has indicated that the Czech Government is rather a supporter of the conservative, deadening approach. If the money from the EU post-crisis plan is to change something, it must move us forward. Allow me to present a few specific points as a recommendation to our government. The very structure of expenditure in the current government version of the national recovery plan is embarrassing. The most, up to 118 billion, is to be reserved for physical infrastructure and green trance. On the other hand, there are 25 billion for digital transformation, 23 billion for education and the labour market, or just 12.5 billion for research, development and innovation. WHO calls for increased money for digitization, education and research. For the chapter, physical infrastructure and green trance, we want as much money as possible to go on a green trance built on new technologies. We don't put so much money in asphalt and concrete, on the contrary, let's invest it mainly in people, in human capital. The chapter on digitalisation should contain clear objectives and a time frame. For example, the aim should be to link the financial authorities fully with social security administrations, health insurance companies or labour offices. The departments' database should be linked to various registers, including the real estate register. It is necessary to allow the submission and processing of any application, including a tax return, only electronically. The establishment of a self-employed person or s. r. o. should be possible from home. At a time when France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria have a rapid train network, European rail passenger transport must not pass us by. It is therefore necessary to allocate a significantly larger amount to the creation of a network of rapid trains. The spine routes, the European corridors, must have a travel speed of between 200 and 250 kilometres per hour. The aim must also be to increase population mobility on the way to work, for example by accelerating suburban rail transport. Our road network is packed with trucks. A part of road freight transport should be carried on rail and used to a reasonable extent by national waterways. In the field of industry, the government must add money to pro-growth investments. Wages, new departments in ministries, archivism, are really very inappropriate measures to restart the economy. Yet for them, the government is proposing to spend tens of billions in the recovery plan, and that is wrong. The government must not manage the national recovery plan on items belonging to the state budget, not such an exceptional pro-growth fund. Innovation in education does not just mean the current provision of remote education, as the government believes. There is a need to reduce inequalities in access to quality education and to allow maximum development of the potential of pupils and students. Modern imperatives of education are interdisciplinarity, quality work with information and critical thinking. This requires adaptation of educational frameworks and investment in technologies, such as building interactive and easily accessible innovative educational databases. It is necessary to link existing information systems in education and to create a single forward information system that will be accessible to public authorities and self-government. This will simply enable school quality data to be obtained without their administrative burden. The government has declared that it will consult a wide range of institutions in the preparation of the National Reform Plan, unfortunately it does so quite formally. That is why I initiated the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs, by which the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to provide sufficient time for proper settlement of the comments made by the social partners, NGOs and other stakeholders before approving the national recovery plan in the Government. It's a big deal. Please do not rush to prepare the national recovery plan. I'd like a few more reservations. Those reservations aren't just mine or KDU-ČSL's. They are, in particular, a variety of entities, institutions, associations such as the Chamber of Commerce, such as the Industry and Transport Union, such as social service providers and so on and so on, who have reservations about the process of creating a recovery plan. The partners complain that their suggestions and opinions are not sufficiently reflected by the government, and although the European Commission has called on the governments of the Member States to include national parliaments in the creation of these plans, this is not the case in the Czech Republic. This is actually the first time that we are discussing the issue of the national recovery plan, which will allocate over 170 billion to the recovery and restructuring of the economy, to the Chamber of Deputies. We also have reservations about the content, when not KDU-ČSL, or only KDU-ČSL, or other political parties have reservations about the allocation and exactly the areas. These reservations are also made by entities, entities such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, trade unions, educational institutions and so on and so on. [[15.10 hours]] I would therefore like to call on the Government not to rush the process of creating this plan and deciding how we will use these extraordinary means and to give the opportunity not only to political parties and opposition, but, in particular, to those actors that I have already named twice, so that they can express themselves and that their comments are seriously evaluated. Finally, I would read the resolution adopted in this context by the Committee on European Affairs, which I would actually propose in the same text to the Chamber of Deputies: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to provide sufficient time for proper settlement of comments and proposals by social partners, NGOs and other stakeholders before approving the National Recovery Plan in the Government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u9	Now, with the opinion of the ODS Club, Mr Skopeček will speak, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u10	Thank you for the floor. My previous speakers here dissected the details of the recovery fund, whether it concerns any income or expenses. However, I think we need to look at the material we got on the table systemically. If you read it, you will have to agree with me that so far every crisis has been used by the European Union to increase its powers, to increase its influence, and this is the case in the case of a covid crisis. The material in our hands is the result of the July summit of the European Union, which brought two revolutionary things in the history of the European integration process, which is, first, the possibility of the European Union being indebted to individual Member States - something that the European Union could not do so far, so that the European Union can now be indebted to account or guaranteed by the Member States. The second revolutionary step that European political elites have been trying for quite a long time is the emergence of common European taxes. The document itself directly talks about the charge on non-recyclable waste, but in the material you can read about other taxes considered, which the European Commission wants to introduce quickly, namely digital tax and financial transaction tax. So please, let's not lie here, let's not just dwell on the details of the possible distribution of individual funds into individual areas, but let's face it, there have been two breaking points in the European integration process. The first turning point - for the first time, own resources are created in the form of common European taxes, and for the first time in history, the European Union will be able to enter into debt. I'm criticizing national debt, and the secretary knows we're fighting battles here to approve the annual state budget. I cannot speak differently as a national Member when I speak of debt at the level of our national state, I cannot agree at such a time with debt at the level of the European Union. The European Union has decided to redistribute CZK 750 billion, with a large part of it, namely half a trillion euros, wanting to borrow the European Union on the financial markets, with individual Member States vouch for it. If I am against socialism at national level, if I am against socialism, against debt in the Czech Republic, I simply cannot agree with socialism at European level, I cannot agree with debt at European Union level. That step or those steps were pushed forward with the argument that the borrowed funds and the recovery fund should serve, the recovery fund should serve to restore Europe's economies after the covid pandemic. However, when you look at the distribution of money and, after all, our colleague Benešík has also talked about it, we find that it is not about financing the covideo consequences of the epidemic, that it is not about health care or anything that the covide in the Czech Republic or in the European Union has done negatively. The money's being loaned to two targets. One is digitalization, we could still agree with that, as we want it to, or some of you, to proceed with digitization, yes, but we can no doubt agree that digitalization is nothing to do with the covid. The second area to be financed from the huge package of money that the European Union borrows is the so-called green agreement. Once again, we are fighting a variety of battles in the adoption of environmental legislation, some of which we fear, some of which support it, but whatever our opinion on this, we certainly agree that the financing of the green agreement has nothing to do with what is happening here and will happen in connection with the covid epidemic. Thus, the European Union has used the covid crisis to borrow money under its cape and argue and use the word covid for areas that have absolutely nothing to do with the covid crisis. I am sorry because I see that the European Union has not learned from the fact that it is not possible to operate and manage on a long-term basis. We all remember the European debt crisis that followed the financial and economic crisis in 2008. We all remember that some European economies were so overdebted that they were unable to finance their debts by borrowing on market terms in the financial markets. Subsequently, the other Member States that borrowed money for lower interest, because their financial health was good enough to provide loans or non-refundable financial subsidies to over-indebted countries that were unable to borrow on market terms. Something similar is happening in this case, too - from the fact that budgetaryly more responsible states have provided money and shared risks with those less responsible, so now this principle is moving up to the level of the European Union, and of course, the European Union will undoubtedly borrow for better market interest as a large entity than individual Member States, but this does not address the original problem of European economies, namely the inability to manage balanced budgets, and even in those areas that the European Union considers priority, the trend, the need to operate on the basis of debts, is moving from the Member States to the level of the European Union. For the record, the debt of half a trillion euros is expected to be repaid in 2058, or, if I count correctly, in 37 years. I think that this is something that I certainly cannot support, and it is also a matter that shows that Andrej Babiš has failed in discussing these matters on the European Union. It is true that he is very sovereign and very brave with regard to European politics on home soil, TV cameras, he will not leave a dry thread on the European Union, but here he would rather have a very weak mandate from the Chamber of Deputies, within which he agreed to create common European taxes so that he would not have to fight for anything against the European Union. It's Andrej Babiš's failure. It is a pity that he did not use the revolutionary issue of new taxes or debt to finally negotiate for the Czech Republic that, for example, nuclear energy will be classified as an emission-free source. It was a thing he could definitely operate on, because, of course, it was for the consent... That is why, of course, the approval of these revolutionary things was also necessary. We have not used it, we still cannot move on European soil, we cannot defend our interests, and Andrej Babiš is only brave at national level, he will shut his heels in the European Union and approve whatever the European Union will invent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u11	Mrs Langšádlová is now asking to speak for TOP 09 and it is the last application so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will be very brief because my colleagues would like to discuss another point. I would like to say that although this is a very crucial decision in terms of both the European Union's own income and debt, we are living in a very exceptional situation. The crisis that we have come to will only be an opportunity for us if we continue to be competitive as European countries if we invest well as European countries in areas such as digitalisation, education, science, research. I believe that the path that the European Commission and other European states, and we, of course, are taking, is the right way and I would like to support these steps. But I'll be very brief because my colleagues want to make more points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u13	Yes, Mr. Mr. Benešík. Please. And Mr. Hrnčíř.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u14	Just very briefly. The loan, the package, was simply decided by the Member States so that we could imagine who the European Union was. They were premieres of the governments of the Member States, everyone had the right to veto. Nobody did it, they made a deal like this. There's nothing we can do about it. But what matters is how the implementation will be done and how we will use the funds. I have read here where I see weak spots, and I hope that the government not only blames Benešík, but especially all the entities I have appointed, from the Chamber of Commerce to the trade unions, will reflect on how we use the money well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u15	Mr Jan Skopeček will now be prepared for the factual remark and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u16	I'll respond to my previous speaker. He is right about the fact that it was decided by the premieres of the Member States. I agree with that. I also say that our Prime Minister failed to do so because he could negotiate something important for the Czech Republic, such as the inclusion of nuclear energy between emission-free limits, in such revolutionary matters as the new taxes of the European Union, such as the new possibility of being indebted by the European Union. He didn't do anything. He had a weak mandate in the Chamber of Deputies. We voted that it should not approve and not agree with the common European taxes. KDU-ČSL then supported him in this and approved a weak mandate. So we're in the result... As a result, the Prime Minister didn't negotiate anything and the Czech Republic, or Parliament, didn't want it because of most of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u17	Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now appear. It's the last application so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also make a brief statement. There's been enough arguments here. But take, the plan to rebuild the war-torn economies in 1948, the so-called Marshallův Plan, represented a financial amount for today's prices of roughly $200 billion. Do you really think that the European Fund, which is supposed to count almost four times this amount, means almost four of Marshallův's plans, that it really is for the fight against covid? Isn't it more like bailing out economies that just don't work? Do we really need to be in debt in this way and make the European Union a debt union? 'Cause we're all gonna vouch for those debts. Common taxes will be collected. These are the foundations of a European superstate, that's all it is. The European Union is not to be indebted, we are not to be liable for European debts. It's nonsense, and it needs to be rejected. Yes, our government, the Prime Minister, failed to negotiate. It's shameful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u19	I don't have any applications here. I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Isn't there an interest in final words? Madam? The rapporteur? . [[No.]] So we're going to proceed to a debate in detail that I don't have anyone registered to. No one is to be heard in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? It's not. We will vote on the resolution. I would like to ask Members whether they know what resolution we will vote on. [[Not general.]] We don't know. I'll ask the rapporteur if he'll still... [[The rapporteur responds from the point of view.]] You gave it to me? I'll read it. [[Checkout request.]] Then I'll read it and then I'll check it out. Or I do it all at once, I'm actually a multifunction. [[Fun in the hall.]] I'll check you out, let's sign you in at the same time. The resolution will be voted on as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the Ministry of Finance's information on the Council's decision on the system of the European Union's own resources and its implementation at national level." Members are still running, I can see through the open door. Let's give them some space. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, registered by 88 Members, for 68, against 19. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Excuse me? [[Mr Benešík asks that his resolution be voted on.]] I can't hear you right now. Excuse me? I see. That is why I asked if anyone was speaking in a detailed debate. [[Mr Benešek's response.]] Well, in a detailed debate... So I asked. I was still looking around the O.R. Well, you were loading it up, then... Okay, well, since you've already loaded it once in a general debate... Okay, okay. Then read it to us again and we'll vote on it too. But you've already read it once in a general debate, so that's no problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u20	Yes. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to provide sufficient time for proper settlement of comments and proposals by social partners, NGOs and other stakeholders before approving the National Recovery Plan in the Government."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-003-468.u21	Do we understand what we're going to vote on? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 66, registered by 91 Members, for 31, against none. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. That concludes this point. And now we have a fixed point. What are you saying? No? What? [[Reactions in the O.R. Member Munzar gestures at the newsstand.]] Oh, yeah. I was just about to ask the O.R. if we're gonna start for those three minutes. So let's get started. I didn't say I was starting a fixed point in three minutes. I didn't even call a break. We'll proceed to the next point.
