ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u1	340. Government bill amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 870/ - third reading Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček and rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is the Economic Committee, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in Parliament's Press 870/6, which was delivered on 2 June 2021. The guarantee committee resolution was delivered as press 870/7. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u2	Mr President, honourable Members. First of all, let me thank everyone for getting this challenging law through to the third reading and for a certain degree of helpfulness that we can definitely discuss today. I will not introduce him very much, because there has been a long discussion about it, only to mention that this is a very fundamental law, which is important for the decarbonisation of Czech energy and which is the basis for its modernisation. At the same time, it must be said that it solves so much discussed transformation of Czech heating, and I note that it is 1.7 million households, and by approving this law, whatever form it is, we will then allow 3.5 million inhabitants in the Czech Republic to be heated next year on the basis of central heating, at very reasonable costs. In other words, we will allow support for the transition to non-coal resources. At the same time, it is a key law that allows the transition to so-called net mobility in transport, and last but not least it is a law that will allow us to make once and for all and definitively a thick line behind the unfortunately elected PV support system built in 2009, 2010, when the then Chamber of Deputies failed in 2010 the finals of the proposal for support of these renewable resources, which will cost us CZK 572 billion in the finals by 2030. I'm only talking about photovoltaic. For this reason, the government has taken the view that it has proposed to change the parameters of photovoltaic support rather than other renewable sources, despite the so-called internal yield percentage at 6.3 %. The fact is that a number of other discussions took place afterwards, we agreed to compromise variants of the majority of the parliamentary parties, and we accepted such a system where the solar tax would increase by 10 per cent, while at the same time the value of the internal yield percentage for photovoltaics would increase, which would allow, say, a better regime, the possibility of surviving and the possibility of prospering even for those who did not have the problem in 2009, 2010, but bought the photovoltaics, invested in it in good faith. In other words, we are ready to support this proposal by ranging from 8.4 to 10.6 when ad 1 says that photovoltaics will be on the bottom edge, and ad 2 says that all other sources such as water such as biomass, such as wind, will be able to draw support at 10,6. Let me conclude by saying that I agree with the change in the procedure that Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský will make in a moment. This is purely a technical matter that will simplify the entire voting procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u3	I thank you and open the debate to which the rapporteur is the first to report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up on the Minister's words. The Economic Committee discussed the draft voting procedure and adopted opinions on the amendments in press 870/6. As far as the press is concerned, 870/7, which contains a procedure, we found some irregularities in the follow-up check at the Department of Legislation, whether the Houses or the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I sent you a counter-proposal of voting procedures last week, including the reasons for the most important changes. So, then, Mr President, I am calling upon to propose a counter-proposal for the procedure of the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u5	Thank you. Mr Holomčík is next in the debate, Mr Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about one of the partial agendas that this press, or one of the amendments or group of amendments that we will be voting on, bears, and this is essentially the implementation of the RED II directive, which affects, among other things, renewable transport resources. I would like to begin by saying that it is a bit of a pity that, although I think I understand the reasons, we are debating now because I am aware that today, if I am not mistaken, there will be a press conference of representatives of the European Commission at 14 o'clock at which the proposal for the RED III directive will be submitted, which means another framework which will be discussed first at European level, then, of course, in the future, probably in the next parliamentary term, it will also come to implementation with us. It's a bit of a shame, because now we're actually talking about something that we suspect is going to change again in the coming years, and it could definitely affect access to some of these proposals, depending on how we're going to see if this solution has or doesn't have a future. But now back to this press. I understand the need to implement RED II. I'm very sorry it didn't go the standard way, for several reasons. The main reason is basically some more thorough impact assessment. I wonder - I'll probably ask those questions later, because the Minister is now in a friendly conversation. So what bothers us about the way we approach the implementation of future commitments or 2030 is that it basically doesn't respect what we've been pointing out all along. A number of experts point to this, and basically, we're going to keep going in a state very similar to that of 2008. Our concept of biofuels and fulfilling those obligations is very sad for three reasons. Firstly, it denies the economic and environmental logic of the use of biofuels. Biofuels can be a very desirable tool if they are used with an emphasis on locality, which means that the distance of where the product is produced, which we then process, or the raw material that we then process into biofuels, and the place of processing itself, and then the consumption is closest to each other. The model we chose in 2008 means that everything is grown everywhere, then it's processed in a few places and then it's distributed across the board again, erases benefits that - let's just say - even for biofuels of the first generation are simply not or are very weak. So here's the bad technological reality, the bad quality, we're stepping on the wrong distribution model even more. The second thing that is also related to this is the imbalance or lack of emphasis on the use of waste raw materials, some residual production. Unfortunately, we have seen that energy crops - and of course it is not just biofuels, it is also a matter of biogas - have become a significant part of our fields. There is talk of a share of more than 20 percent. I just don't think it's right. We were discussing the future of organic farming on the agricultural committee some time ago, and there were concerns that organic farming does not have that much productivity and we will need a lot of food in the future. I will leave aside that the debate on the productivity of organic farming is elsewhere, but it seems strange to me that on the one hand we are afraid of organic farming, that we will not be able to produce enough food, on the other hand, we are pushing the path which means increasing the share of energy crops in our fields. That just doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and that's why I'm sorry that implementation didn't go in the right way to go through the commentary procedure, so that the Ministry of Agriculture could assess how the chosen solution is related and is in line with the agricultural agricultural sector strategy, and this just didn't work out, which is what we're missing. The third thing that is the last, but I actually mind the most, is that, in part of technology, part of approaches, we make the privileged ones, the ones we prefer, so we violate the principle of technological neutrality. It's a problem, and this approach is unhappy because we're closing the door to some meaningful development. When you look at various models, predictions and assumptions that are around biofuels in transport or around renewables in transport, in fact, in everything I've seen, it is assumed that meeting the targets and using renewable energy sources in transport will be built on a varied mix of different approaches, different technologies, different fuels. We go the way that we privilege a certain approach, demotivate innovative business, and it's actually in direct conflict with logic. Because, yes, every ambitious policy costs money, that's just the way it is, and we should try to make sure that, when it's already costing money - and it's not just budget money, but of course it's the money from taxpayers' pockets directly when buying fuel - so we should try to make sure that the money is invested, used as best as possible, and that we are heading towards some as intense development as possible. By denying the principle of technological neutrality, denying that the mix should be as sharp as possible, we are going directly against it. At the same time, if we accentuate first-generation biofuels here - he doesn't really use the term much anymore, but for the sake of simplicity, it's probably right - so if we accent first-generation biofuels, we're actually going against the sense that we're talking about it. I do not know if you saw, in 2016 - I think it was in 2016 - the original European Commission proposal on RED II came out. There it was expected that the first generation biofuels would be reduced to half the current state. Then in the directive, we're basically in the same condition as we are now. But these tendencies, if you're watching the discussions, they're just going to be, and they're going to be going towards the fact that first-generation biofuels aren't actually really really really counting on it anymore. If we set up the plan by 2030 - which is less than nine years or eight and a half years - and accentuate the first generation biofuels, in fact in 2027, in 2030, we get into trouble. Because we're just going to implement other policies that, as logically, will be quite different. In fact, much of the professional public doesn't count on first-generation biofuels anymore. That means what we're about to approve now, so he's gonna give us a huge problem in the future. It will cost us money and it will simply be unpleasant in terms of solving the problem from the point of view of implementation and the steps that will have to be done. [[9.50 hours]] I would very much like us not to go this way, to look for another way that will be more market-driven, which will enable individual technologies to compete with each other, so that fuel suppliers or fuel suppliers, to which the European Commission and we are actually transferring part of the responsibility for fulfilling our obligations, can choose which way they will go, and, of course, their customers will then be able to choose different types of fuel or energy supply so that the customer can choose. We believe that there will be a reduction in prices and less impact on people with competition. And I'd like to ask the minister or the translator, but I kind of suspect that the proposal came from the MIT anyway, if you've got any predictions of that development, because now we have 6.1, bioethanol, petrol, you want to raise it to 8.8, the whole framework will be 7 percent. There is supposed to be some development of diesel consumption, the development of gasoline consumption, so if you have any predictions of how the consumption of individual types of fuels will evolve, how we reach the limit, because this is extremely important. If you're calculated not to make it to the 7 percent, that means we're going to have to chase the percentages somewhere else. If you have to calculate that it will be over, it is actually pointless, because over 7 per cent no one will accept it anyway and it is pointless in consumer abuse quotes. So this prediction here is really important to me. Please, if you have it, present it here. And then the second thing, if you were mapping the technological situation with us and actually those manufacturers, is how they would be able to maintain the sustainability criterion. There is some scope that then also translates into what is, and what is not recognized, and depends on the age of the installation of technology. And, of course, it will also affect the resulting percentage that we're heading towards. So that's two questions. I'd be happy to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u7	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Kott, then Mr Jaroslav Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would briefly like to respond to Radek Holomčík's words. Well, it's all a little more complicated than he's been telling us. We have committed ourselves to something and, of course, we must do so within the European Union. Growing energy crops here is true. I would like to say that 15, maybe 20 years, the energy crop area or crops used for energy purposes certainly does not change radically, varies in individual years. Those farmers who sow wheat, rye, maize for bioethanol, who sow rape on MERO, certainly do not do so because from the very beginning they know how the crops will be used, because the use of those crops is certainly due to a financial evaluation of food quality or quality for the production of MERO or bioethanol. So that's the first thing. And a second matter of how to achieve those goals within the framework of the commitment. Of course, there were tests on the cultivation or use of seaweed, which in our area is highly non-profitable, and if we don't put significant funds into it, it won't work. And the criticism that it can also be made out of waste materials - yes, it certainly can be done, but the moment we want to process waste here - fats - from all over Europe, because otherwise we can't feed the equipment. So I don't know if this is the way we wanted to go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point, Mr Holík, then Mr Holomčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u10	Mr President, fellow Members, hello. When I heard the words of my colleague Holomčík here, as we reduce the addition of biofuels of the first generation, my heart waved, but when I see the yellow fields, I don't think that's how it is. And now I have a question for the Minister. The whole of the European Union hastens on how to make better engines. We are currently paying Euro 6, we are preparing the Euro 7, engine designers are tearing their hair out. And I think it's more or less pointless. We have millions and millions of trucks that often transport goods from place to place for nothing just because it's cheaper for someone to rub their pockets more, instead of making them close to the customer. And I have already asked the previous Minister of Transport in the past: is there any serious analysis of how much better the exhaust gases will be when we add biofuels? I'm saying no!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u11	Thank you. Mr Holomčík, factual point, then Mr Pávek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u12	Thank you for the floor. I dare to respond, by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Kott. I want to say a few things. The first one is probably the most important one. I would like farmers to be removed from this discussion in the sense that they are proving to be doing something in this way. They're in the tow of some politician. And sometimes I'm picking up these kind of outbursts. This isn't a farmer's business in that sense. Of course, we can talk about certain exceptions among the biggest, but it's basically not a matter for farmers who just do what they do to keep their business in black. So let's definitely not attack them, it wouldn't be fair. And as for the performance that Mr Kott here was talking about, that's just it. The European Union does not tell us what percentage must be the first generation. They tell us the percentage of how much OZ in transport as a whole, and they tell us some other things about sustainability, emissions and so on. But what the resulting mix will be is purely for every single state to decide. And I would like to remind you of the argument I've made several times before when we proposed the abolition of the mandatory incorporation. We have always proposed the abolition of the compulsory incorporation, the specific instrument for implementing the policy, but the maintenance of the commitments as such. And, yes, if we go this way, nothing happens in our country for years following the technological reality, the first generation biofuels will still be dominant. But what we want is to introduce technological neutrality, which will open the door to alternatives as far as possible and the development will be gradual. I don't expect us to cancel now, and next week it's gonna be different, no, it's gonna take a few years, but we have to start as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u13	Thank you. Mr Pávek, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u14	Thank you for the floor. Only very briefly, because Radek Holomčík now basically responded to the factual remarks that followed his previous performance. I identify with the look presented by my colleague Holomčík. It is true that we have commitments to the European Union in terms of reducing emissions, and the truth is that the way we deal with this is not the subject of this commitment. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, regardless of all the things that are around and associated with the fulfilment of those obligations, has simply calculated on paper how they will succeed - and this is not just a question of mixing biofuels into fuel, it is also about adding biomass, for example, to the combustion of large boilers, when I know they are farmers and they are farmers. [[10.00 hours]] There are farmers who have a relationship with the soil who would never grow these plants first or second generations for that industrial use, and then the companies that don't really care. And it's clear that when you want to have as much mass as you can to represent as much profit as possible, and you don't have a relationship to the soil and the surrounding area, you just sprinkle it and sprinkle it on all those chemicals that eventually stay in the soil and leak into the water. This means that many of these measures have a negative effect in areas other than the reporting of our commitments to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u15	Thank you. Two further factual points have emerged - first Mr Luzar, then Mr Kott.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to put in place a debate that would rather correspond to a second reading. This is a philosophical question to which each of you in this hall must answer, whether the land suitable for agricultural use, that is, to grow and produce food, can be used in some proportion to the energy use of crops. If you answer that you don't care that the world has a shortage of food, then, of course, we can approach the idea that, in some proportion, agricultural land can be used to grow technical crops used to produce energy. But if you recognize that food and agriculture are the main source of food production, then you need to think about how far these energy crops can be grown on agricultural land. I understand the position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it has tasks, it has tasks from the European Commission. It must include some of these conditions in order to increase the volume of these organic crops with large energy-producing quotation marks. But we're not just talking about mixing biofuels from rape, which is, let's say, a detail. Now we're talking about the new trend that appears in this proposal, and then I'm going to talk about it in my discussion paper, and that's biomass, in general biomass, that's going to start burning on energy production, whether heat or electricity. And that is going to be a much bigger problem, because in this proposal, we even increase subsidies on biomass, on biogas and on all the biofuels that have in their base, but it is precisely that what should be used for human consumption that means food, as an energy raw material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u17	Thank you. Mr Kott, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u18	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly, she's only one corn, wheat and rape, and if it's used for food purposes or for energy purposes, it's really about where the price will be more interesting. And I'm really starting to get a lot allergic to this kind of talk about how it pours on the agricultural land of chemistry and what we have here. Mr colleague, through Mr President, if you were really interested in this, you will find that the Czech Republic is deeply below the average consumption of chemical resources, whether fertilizers or protective substances, for individual crops. So this is really stupid talk about what's pouring on farmland. And I agree with what my colleague Holomčík said. Of course, it's a long run and with the fact that the mix needs to be created here, that's for sure, except that the processing of some of the leftovers, whether they're animal or plant, is necessary to prepare for it, and surely someone will have to fund it. So if it's cities, if it's regions, or if it's private companies, that's the second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u19	Thank you. A few further factual points - first Mr Pávek, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u20	I'd like to respond to the previous speaker now. Mr kotit, through Mr President, I have been a farmer for 20 years, so I really know what I am talking about, it is not that I have to find out something. But I see how colleagues who grow, or mostly they are corporations, are not individuals who grow crops for other than food use, they use over-chemicals to achieve as much mass as possible. And this is true of biogas stations and others. These aren't any food surpluses you're trying to report. That's just the fact that a farmer who has a sales based on matter, and it doesn't matter if we're talking about bioethanol right now or if we're talking about meat that's supposed to end up in biogas stations, he doesn't get too confused to help it. And when it's herbicides, pesticides, fungicides, or other chemistry, sprays are incomparably more than farmers who grow a food base. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u21	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Holomčík will be prepared, all factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will take advantage of the fact that this debate is leading to one particular amendment, and I will respond to my colleagues. The Prime Minister often says how the eco-fanatic European Union commands something, and then whenever it has the opportunity, it always uses it for its business interests. And that's exactly what's happening here. It is simply the second largest producer of biofuels in the Czech Republic, through its Member, that it proposes to increase the mandatory incorporation of first generation biofuels into diesel fuel, and it pays people by increasing the price of petrol by one or two crowns. Again, the fact that Mr Babiš will then say how terrible the European Union is, and yet he is making money about it, while choosing the instruments we will use to meet those commitments, is on us as on the ground. Coincidentally, in the Czech Republic, the commitments are always fulfilled in a way that makes the Prime Minister's companies earn. And that is the problem with the amendment we are talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u23	Another factual point - Mr Holomčík, then Mr Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u24	Thank you for the floor. Once again, Mr President, I will allow myself to respond to my colleague Kott. We're getting closer to each other in this debate, as I see it. It's good. I just want one thing. Actually, you're here, colleague, he said it's a long shot, it's not easy. It's very complicated, but I don't want to talk about that right now. I mean, we need to start this as soon as possible. We're actually still... We see the mistakes that came when we entered the system in 2008. We actually keep repeating those mistakes. And I don't think now is really the time for a whole bunch of reasons for us to go on walking around in the same place or in a very similar place as in 2008. The step we need to take is to take the path of technological neutrality. That's an absolutely crucial thing. I have now had a number of debates with people in the field, with experts, and more or less that opinion, except for certain particular circles, is very similar: we will just open it up to the market, open it up as much as possible to the market. I repeat what I said a moment ago. For a while, like five or six years, nothing happens more or less, because other technologies are more expensive. There's a need for investment. It is, of course, then, and it is already the complexity, to tie it up with other policies, to tie it up with environmental policy, with agricultural policy, with rural development policy, to find investment channels so that, for example - and I will now do one thing - municipalities can process, or some microregions process such as non-recyclable plastics, and so on and so on. I don't want it to revolve around this particular example, there's more of these things. It's a long run, and we need to start as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u25	Your time. Thank you. Mr Pražák - factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u26	Good morning. I will be extremely short and respond, through Mr President, to my colleague Pávek. If it were so horrible, if it were as bad as he says it was, he wouldn't be able to see me right now... [[A Member of the Peacocks discusses in an alley with Mr Luzar.]] Mr Pávek's colleague: if it were as terrible as you say, as you say, my colleague, how is it possible - that the Czech Republic is halfway across Germany than Belgium in pure nutrients? [[President: Through me.]] How is it possible that we have the use of pesticide active substances on some less than two kilos? How is it possible that Germany has four kilos? Denmark and Belgium have seven kilos. You guys are saying that it's awful that we're all in there with forgiveness and we're fertilizing and we're pouring all that nonsense. [[10.10 hours]] And I would have responded to my colleague before that, or I would have supported my colleague Kott. I don't know how many Pávek are sown this year, but I can say what's in our region, our grain, I don't know where I'm gonna go with it in the fall, whether I feed it or put it in the mill, or if the price is somewhere else, it might be used for some other use. I just don't know. I approach it as a crop, and then I see how the market stands up to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u27	Thank you and there is a factual remark from Mr Pávek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u28	Thank you. So I will respond very quickly here to a colleague of Pražák, by your means, Mr President. Well, she's right that the consumption of chemistry is higher in the surrounding states west of us, and I've been observing the trend there for a long time. Among other things, I remember the times when I went there for example 25 years ago to cooperatives and farmers, so with great fame they discovered biogas as an added economic value. I mean, they installed, like, 150-kilowatt, and that huge squad that brought together all the peasants, she figured it out, and she found out that if they threw some of that stuff in there and added a little shit, they'd have some extra money. When I went there ten years later, it turned out that biogas from the point of view of the business economy of those cooperatives became so interesting that it was subject to the whole of agriculture. And they're import countries for food. That means, they said, O.K., so we're gonna bring groceries here from third world countries, and we're gonna bang money to produce electricity whose purchase price is being supported. And all of a sudden, pigs started growing there because they needed a lot of manure. And where biodiversity was in agriculture, ten years later, there was only corn growing everywhere, because it all just turned into revenue and money counting. In money, not in your own agricultural activity. So I agree that there is much greater consumption of chemistry, but it is the biogas stations that are taking great credit for it, and that farmers have basically turned away from real farmers who have been managing it for generations, to entrepreneurs who have been banging money on supported electricity sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u29	Thank you. At this point, the final point in fact. Mr Jurečka is entered into the debate. Mr Pávek will prepare for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u30	Good morning, Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I will now try to get back to the debate on many other issues that this amendment addresses on supported energy resources. I consider the two House prints that we have now on the agenda, that is, this amendment and then the amendment to the Energy Act, as a very major legislative change for the Czech Republic in the field of renewables, their much greater use in energy, because I consider it a huge opportunity for us to create greater potential for self-sufficiency for households, for companies, for the Czech Republic as such. I consider these laws also essential from the perspective of other innovations, which can bring us positive benefits in terms of new jobs, companies that can develop more, and so on. And I would very much like the House and the Senate in the final discussion to give room for us to say in the Czech Republic: We are giving an open fan of ways to support renewable resources in the Czech Republic, so that we do not say in vain at some possibilities: This is not the way to go, because someone has decided to make this amendment or, on the basis of some pressures from some interest associations and groups, even if they might be motivated by some rational arguments from their point of view. But I would really like us to say: there is a great opportunity for the Czech Republic. We see states around us that are making a huge shift in modern energy, progressive shift, taking it rationally, have no ideology, that at any cost there must be a goal, as we sometimes hear, that Brusel has ordered us to do something here, and so on. I really don't like it, shortcuts like that. But let us consider this an opportunity for households to have cheaper energy so that they can be self-sufficient to some extent. Same for the firm. Let us take this really as an opportunity for the Czech Republic and to build some self-sufficiency, strengthen our own capacities and so on. So here I am in this spirit, which I am now saying at the outset, tabled more than ten amendments to this amendment. Let me remind you briefly, I don't want to delay it, because I'd like us to discuss it at third reading today, so we can move on. I was trying to take some steps that would lead us to do a certain dot over the period of the underdeveloped development of photovoltaics in 2009, 2010. Those things happened here, they weren't exactly well done legislatively. Unfortunately, at the time, of course, we did this development from the point of view of installation, capacity, but for the unnecessarily large amount of public support and support that we pay as consumers. If the state had acted more prudently then and spread it more over time, it would have given room to lower installation prices, so we could have made maybe even more capacity than we did back then, and for significantly less money. That mistake happened. Now, of course, we are coming up with a proposal that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has processed here. It is presented by some Members in terms of adjusting the so-called IRR, the internal yield percentage. There are several amendments. I would like us to think about this from the point of view: firstly, yes, let's do the dot, let's even the environment, reduce the spending of the state that goes into that area. But on the other hand, let's also look at those subjects who went into the business at the time, who went into it, for example, with the intention that it wasn't their main core business or speculation, but that it was some sort of diversification of their activities. They have put in money that they have largely borrowed at interest rates that are significantly different from what we know today. These people are very concerned about how this amendment will turn out from the point of view of their business, because it threatens not only their credit and the financing of their installation sometime from 2009 or 2010 but it is reflected in the approach of banks and other business activities. Many Members, especially the Economic Committee, have written to us how the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Agriculture Union, the Association of Private Agriculture, but also representatives of the banking sector, so that we can balance and assess these things wisely. That's why I have two suggestions on how to adjust the IRR. I think it's also worth considering whether they shouldn't be supported today. These are two variants that try to do that by reducing expenditure, introducing a solar tax, or increasing it, for that one period. It means a clear stable income for the state budget, but it is also predictable, readable from the point of view of those I was talking about so that they do not get into serious existential problems - they, their business and even their families. So that's this part. Then we also try to bring in proposals for our KDU club, which concern what has already been mentioned here today, and that is the approach of technological neutrality to renewable resources. On the one hand, we have huge financial volumes for investment support, it's a supermodernization fund, thanks for it. It has enormous potential for the Czech Republic. But at the same time, I don't understand why it is then said that, for example, it is possible to support the energy from the landfill gas when the government decides to do some operational support here, so why don't we put the fan here open so that the government, any future in any composition, can say, "We want to do it for other sources of energy, whether it's photovoltaics or more." Saying that support, even operating, would be possible. Why should we not use the good principle that we see abroad, which works well, and that is the principle of auction so that the state can use the auction. So I have also tabled these amendments, and I would like to say simply: It's a possibility. It's not necessary. It doesn't automatically mean that it's going to have some kind of cost for the state budget, but it's an option. [[10.20 hours]] It's not necessary. It doesn't automatically mean that it's going to have some kind of cost for the state budget, but it's an option. And I believe that being able to combine the aids, that for some applicants, such as medium and larger ones, the investment aid is often better, but for some smaller ones it is more appropriate to go through adequate operating support. And what is important is that the state always has the tools to make sure that the applicant, if he uses both of these aids, does not overcompensate. So I very much intercede for the support of these proposals as well. There are also proposals put forward by my colleagues, which I acknowledge, for example in the field of agrivoltaics as a direction that can enable both the agricultural activity and the production of electricity on lower bonita soil. It's used abroad, for example, and it combines the shielding of the surface, the reduction of the fumes. It may not only be that animals can graze there, but there are examples where there may be belt cultivation, cultivation of agricultural crops such as vegetables, etc. So that's what I think we should put in there. And then there was a big debate in the last few minutes around biofuels. Let me make a few notes as a person who really moves around in agriculture from a very young age to a whole life and professionally, like a plant doctor. If we look at the Czech Republic and the agricultural land fund in the Czech Republic, so if we were in all the crops that we can grow here in our geographical zone and then then produce food, we would make the most of it and be fully self-sufficient in these crops, the experts' estimates are that we would still have about one million hectares of free land in the Czech Republic, which we are actually using today to be exporters. We are huge exporters in cereals, oil seeds, other commodities, malting barley, namely giant exporters of food wheat, corn, as well as crops such as poppy, cumin and others. And now it's up to us how we say we're gonna work with this. If this is really the export of these commodities, or if we say that we want to be reasonable, I repeat, to a reasonable extent, give room for a possible combination of appropriate energy use as a secondary product of the production. And this is one example - and I say it here as really uncoloured politically - but if we look at the production of bioethanol, it is in the Czech Republic that it is produced primarily as a waste raw material or secondary raw material in sugar production. [[Nesroz.]] Thus, the grower grows sugar beet, then the sugar factory processes it into sugar, and in sugar production, the secondary raw material has always been molasses, where the residual sugar is, and this raw material is used well within fermentation, burning and production of bioethanol. So when we're talking about biofuels here today, it's important to say that biofuels aren't just rape-oil methyl ester and rape-seed as such, but it's also, for example, sugar beet. We are in a situation today where the agricultural sector is experiencing a rather difficult period when sugar quotas have ended. We are in a situation where there are seven sugar factories in the Czech Republic after the big sugar reform. And after the end of the sugar quota regime, there was a huge volatility in the price. For farmers today, sugar beet needs to be grown in the last two years. [[Nesroz.]] But when they're done with it and they say "I'm not planting it this year" - it's not a problem for farmers, he'll replace it with anything else, but the sugar factory can close. And some 15,000 jobs are tied to the sugar industry today. So let's remember that it has these connections and these impacts. It's not that simple. And please, nicely, even though sometimes there is a tendency to slip from the perspective of not only political but also media, and the abbreviations are sometimes very simple, so let's look at these things in context and impact. And let me also make a point about the other things that have fallen from the point of view of pesticide use. I have to say this here, even if it doesn't relate primarily to this press, but as a farmer, I'm trying to make this production optimal from the income-cost ratio and to make it healthy. None of us farmers are tired of growing, which means plants that will simply be affected by fungal diseases, infected pests, etc. It's not like we're going to say to each other: we're going to be giving extras here for some large amount of plant protection products or fertilizer use. There are already clear legal limits on how much nitrogen and all that, but we're just trying to do it in some sensible way. And so do the numbers. [[He's looking at his cell phone for background.]] I'm here on purpose to take... The most recent data from Eurostat are that there is consumption in the Czech Republic of plant protection products, 1.9 kg per hectare. In the neighbouring Austria, it is 3.1 kg per hectare. In Spain, for example, it is 5.6 kilograms per hectare and, for example, Belgium has 8 kilograms per hectare of plant protection substances. So we really have one of the lowest in Europe in the Czech Republic. [[Nesroz.]] And it's not that a farmer comes and says to himself - I'm going to apply extra here now, because it's some kind of production that might end up somewhere biogas, etc. Even for those farmers, these are very expensive inputs. It's not easy at all, and we don't act like it. I think that the vast majority of farmers really turn every crown and a lot of things have changed. Even under the pressure that farmers are under by the public, a lot of things are shifting. So much for just a little bit more to conclude on this debate. I would very much like us to simply take this huge number of amendments from the professional point of view, not from the point of view, whether it was presented by one or the other, from the centre, from the left or the right, but if it can move our households forward, our companies, if it can strengthen our energy security, self-sufficiency, even to some extent, and if we can simply benefit the whole sector. It's not a simple battery of laws. This has been discussed here for a long time in the House, the Economic Committee, but please, let us try to look at it with this optics and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u31	Thank you. Mr Pávek is also enrolled in the debate, Mr Třešňák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I could talk to you here for a long time about various amendments. I am very well aware that the issue of promoting renewable resources is foreign to you in most cases, that we are lost in engineering here, in the calculations of some percentage and so on, that you are dependent on the recommendations of your experts in your clubs. The truth is, as my colleague Jurečka said, that we have spent the last year doing this, that we have had debates on and off the Economic Committee. And it is also true that we have, I think, together - and that is why there are so many amendments - reservations about the proposals that come from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And I'm sticking to the challenge, and I've always followed it, which my colleague Jurečka mentioned. I do not judge this politically, I do not judge it partyally, I judge it professionally and in the interests of further development of the Czech Republic, the energy industry, the heat industry and therefore final consumers. Calculation of the internal yield percentage. As much as it means nothing to most of you, the Ministry has come up with a proposal for a variance that is simply huge and leaves this government and future governments with a great opportunity to disperse and decide which of these renewable sources will receive what support. I think it would be ideal if the government did not have that authority, and I say this with regard to future governments, however they will be drawn up. And I would like it if the internal yield percentage were uniform for everyone, with photovoltaic power plants being taxed at 10% as they have been so far. In the event that the single rate has not passed, I would strongly recommend that we stick to the design of the variance, which is smaller and which ranges from 8.4 percent to 9.5 percent. This will make it possible for every government to react to the needs of the market and the support, but it won't be as volatile as the government's proposal that goes from 6.3 to 10.5. [[10.30 hours]] In the event that the single rate has not passed, I would strongly recommend that we stick to the design of the variance, which is smaller and which ranges from 8.4 percent to 9.5 percent. This will allow, if the government wants to do so, it will allow each government to react to the needs of the market and support, but it will not be as volatile as the government's proposal that goes from 6.3 to 10.5. The reason is simple, why I try to narrow down the variance, or even unite the yield percentage rate, because any wider variance threatens the predictability of the business environment. Nowadays, banks are holding off sales from some types of power plants, and they're saying to them, "We're not paying you back until this law passes in the House and it's unclear what the terms are." When the spread of the internal yield percentage is large, the foreseeableity disappears again. We're gonna have a law, but it's not gonna be clear how the government's gonna go about it. That's the technical stuff. I believe we're going to get through this in the vote. We will support the counter-proposal of the procedure presented by the rapporteur, Pavel Pustějovský. We believe that the structure of the vote is more meaningful than the original one adopted by the Economic Committee. And now I'd like to turn to all of you, because I know you'll all understand. The government has helped itself to meet the commitments it has signed against the EU in decarbonisation by writing on paper "co-incineration of biomass in coal boilers', especially in those large coal boilers. We're talking hundreds of megawatts that should be mixed in with wood chips, and I'd like to put a stop to it. I have an amendment that is conducted under the G3 procedure, which limits the combustion or co-incineration of biomass in boilers up to 20 megawatt. It's key, 'cause today it's making a face... On paper it looks very nice, in practice it means that we will burn our forests and that we will stop and prevent the heating and energy industry from participating in innovations, technological innovations that could be brought into this. The government solved their problem, wrote on the paper that we're gonna mix wood chips, and that's it for her, the percentages are coming out, and hello, it's great. Today we have a surplus of wood matter due to a crusty calamity. That's no happy news, that's sad news. Those of you who drive through those affected areas must cry. You can see that burning or co-incinerating biomass, wood matter, as if the problem wasn't now in the first two three years, because there's really enough mass here, but building on it a policy of heating and energy for the future means that it just won't grow a stick in 15 years. With Wabi Daněk, I'd remember that song that the kids wanted to see the forest and how in vain he traveled through that republic and found a lot of dumps, but he didn't find any woods anywhere, and no one knew where there was one. And that's exactly what this is going to do. The idea that we will then plunder our forests just to throw the wood into the boilers, where it will mix to burn coal, to come up with some values that somebody has calculated here and thereby got rid of responsibility, but to blame it on this company, its children and their children's children with an incredible environmental problem - and I think that I haven't profiled here as an ecological fanatic, but as a father of children who would like to have some more forests here, so that it doesn't all be plundered just because it burns in the boilers, so in this case I would like to ask you to support my G3 proposal. It sets the combustion limit for wood matter and co-incineration at 20 megawatts. This is quite a large capacity, it is enough for all the urban heat plants and KVETS - combined production of heat and electricity - and so on. There's no problem. And most importantly, let's say what it means in terms of traffic. Can you imagine what the environmental burden will be, and I'm talking about greenhouse gas production now, if they have to go to these huge heat plants, these huge boilers, to pick up trees, wood from all over the Republic? This load is just gonna be huge, and it doesn't make any sense. That means I'm a big fan of renewables. I was the first mayor in the Republic to build a small biomass boiler room. I was the first to build wind power plants. We built a photovoltaic on the roof. We were always the first to promote new renewable energy sources, and I had to deal with the great criticism and mockery of those so-called experts. Today, the largest operator of photovoltaic power plants is ČEZ, who dehonested me at the time. But burning forests, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, in view of your participation in life in this country and your children and grandchildren, I would ask you to support this proposal, because it is not party, it is not lobbyist, it is simply rescue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u33	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, before we proceed with the factual remark by Jan Zahradník and prepared by Petr Třešňák, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes between 13:00 and 18:00 for reasons of family. Mr Roman Onderka apologizes for health reasons this morning, and Petr Venhoda apologizes between 9:45 and 19:00. Now a factual comment by Jan Zahradník. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to make a point of reference to my colleague Pávek with my point of fact. In fact, the fact that we are discussing this law here proves that renewable resources simply cannot be without public support, that it is not possible to build the use of renewable resources on a market principle and that society must contribute from the sources of its citizens to these energy sources. Photovoltaics and wind power only work under certain conditions. If we want to store, accumulate, store energy in favorable conditions, we must realize that the price of energy storage on the day of consumption of our republic can also cost six trillion crowns. We must remember that the biofuels mentioned here by our colleague Pávek are not only looting our land and causing problems in our landscape, but also, of course, to us, to all car owners, mixing biodiesel and biofuels is destroying our cars' engines. And that's first-generation biofuels we're talking about. Biofuel of the second generation, if we really wanted to think really, their use can restore our percentage, not say the necessary energy. So it really needs to be taken into account and realize that renewables, although necessary, are the way the Union and the circumstances require us to do so, but they simply cannot save our Republic's energy balance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr. Petr Třešňák, Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u36	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will first return a little more to the general plane and then follow up on some previous speakers with specific topics and concrete amendments, because we are discussing the Act on Supported Resources, which is extremely important, for three reasons. Renewables are one of the key instruments of climate protection policy and the way to carbon neutrality. Secondly, they are renewable energy technologies that are a great opportunity for the Czech economy and Czech technology and innovation companies. And third, and that might be negative, and that's the financial dimension. We are talking about more than 600 billion, which will be spent here in the next 10 years to support renewable resources, and this will directly affect the state budget and the citizens' wallets. Moreover, not only is the stability of the business environment of the whole sector and the ability of the Czech Republic to fulfil international obligations, but also a significant impact on the citizens' wallets, which I mentioned a moment ago. Nevertheless, the government does not come up with a sophisticated concept, and the implementation of the fundamental directive R2 itself comes rather in the form of a parliamentary proposal, a proposal that did not pass an analysis of regulation, did not go through a standard legislative process, and, moreover, we repeat in many ways, and this concerns the law as a whole, some of the mistakes that politicians made 10 years ago. When I mentioned the developed concept, I had in mind, above all, the updating of the state energy concept and its real link to other documents, namely the national energy and climate plan, and, above all, the realistic outlook for the balance sheets of the European market and also the required final energy mix, because that is what this is all about. So far, it seems that, depending on what amendments are going through, we are going to swing a little bit, and that will actually give every operator a little bit of access to public financial resources. As pirát, we would like maximum technological neutrality and therefore approach all technologies in the same boundaries and fairly, and above all set up stable conditions for the development of new installations, because what we are most concerned about here for the last six months is history, i.e. how to further support those already standing installations that have been standing for 10 years and the next 10 years are still eligible for support. I would not like to interfere with the pejorative terms that we hear very often here not only from the members of the government, and I mean these expressions of the type of solar baron, the solar tunnel, but the Ministry of Industry did not provide us with precise modeling of the impact on the budget of individual proposals, whether amendments or alternatively for modeling for individual yield percentages, although I believe we asked for this already in January. What we received was such a simple three-page that could certainly not be considered as some more comprehensive impact analysis. So the proposal, whether the original government, or the one that went through some changes in committees, is certainly not technologically neutral, nor is it attempting to implement some market principles, as it did in the surrounding European countries. I don't want to go back to the argumentary gunfights that took place on the Economic Committee, where there has just been no consensus on how much is to be the optimal and fair internal yield percentage for each type of resource. Instead of dealing mainly with how to favor and set the conditions for newly built and ten times cheaper installations, which can be demonstrated that today, for example, photovoltaics can be compiled ten times cheaper, we are still dealing with those who have already made some kind of money on each other. We therefore want, above all, fair support, which will actually start the development of renewable resources, which must take place mainly in the future in the form of auctions, i.e. on the basis of the market principle, and competition at the lowest price, which, as a result, does not have to cost us a crown if it is set well. I then have several accompanying resolutions. I understand that there is a third reading and that this was to be reflected in a detailed debate at second reading, but here I would just point out that at second reading it was not possible to anticipate what all the proposals would be read, how, for example, the developments in voting at third reading will be taken, and it is these accompanying resolutions that should respond to the proposals put forward and, for example, refine or supplement them. As I mentioned here, the Ministry of Documents, which it submitted, from our point of view, was quite tedious with regard to numbers and individual impacts of setting an internal yield percentage on the state budget. That is why I also asked the Energy Regulatory Authority, which I consider not only as a regulator but also primarily as a professional authority in the segment. I dare to quote from the letter, I don't want to delay it here, it's two A4, I presume, that no one blames me for wanting to build it here in some way. The letter of 3 May reads as follows: "Dear Member," I will skip the opening two paragraphs, and I will continue to speed it up, straight third. "In addition to Act No. 180/2005 Key, above all, to Decree 475/2005 Coll. implementing certain provisions of the Act on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Resources. That decree established, inter alia, indicative values of technical and economic parameters for each category of supported renewable resources in order to achieve: (a) an appropriate return on the capital invested over the lifetime of the electricity generation, which is determined by the average weighted cost of capital; (b) the non-negative size of the net present value of the cash flow after taxation over the lifetime of the electricity generation using the discount rate of the average weighted capital cost. These basic rules were used to define the reference model used to set the amount of operating aid. The methodology in question ensured that the IRR is equal to the weighted average WACC capital cost used over the lifetime of the plant. For setting aid in the form of purchase prices and green bonuses, the rate of return was fixed uniformly for all renewable energy sources. The WACC parameter was defined in cooperation with the Czech Technical University in Prague and went through multiple commentary proceedings by the professional public. Between 2006 and 2010, the WACC parameter was set at 7 per cent after tax. For the period 2011 to 2013, it was reduced to 6,3% after tax. From 2013 until now, given the effectiveness of Act No. 165/2012 Coll. it does not calculate with reasonable profit. The current amendment to the Act, by its rules on the calculation of aid, practically replicates the period 2006 to 2013, while the WACC setting is currently subject to consultation process. For some renewable energy sources, shortly after setting the aid, it was realistic to expect higher yields. In the case of photovoltaic power plants, this was done by reason of the legal impossibility of reducing the aid by more than 5% year-on-year, at a time when the investment costs were actually decreasing, and in the case of biogas stations due to the failure to take account of the co-operation of operating aid and investment subsidies. It is precisely the failure to take account of the co-operation of the aid and the subsidy that is one of the main reasons for introducing a control of overcompensation. Indeed, technical and economic parameters need to be regarded as indicative values, thus in such a way that their failure to comply or exceed does not cause the loss of the right to support. The higher profitability could then be achieved in practice, except in the two cases mentioned, by derogating from the technical and economic parameters, i.e. by higher annual revenues, given, for example, the higher use times of installed power, or a combination of this factor and lower investment costs. In that context, it is necessary to understand the legal limit of the internal yield percentage for checking overcompensation as an permitted deviation from the parameters of the model reference project used in determining the amount of aid. While the reference model return used in the project can be seen as an average return in the renewable energy sector, and in the context of overcompensation control, in our view, also as a minimum level of profitability. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will now decide on the maximum amount of yield, i.e. the permissible margin of deviation from the reference model and its yield. This Decision may be considered practically independent of the initial determination of values. At the same time, it should be stressed that any of the proposed changes to the level of the internal yield percentage do not automatically ensure that the costs of supporting supported energy sources are saved. Furthermore, the smaller the difference between the maximum return and the model reference return, the higher the risk of overcompensation and the need for subsequent indications of remedial measures. On the contrary, if the highest proposed yield percentage is decided, then it is possible that none of the sectors will be identified as overcompensated and that the aid costs will not be saved unless this option is accompanied by other measures, such as a levy. [[10.50 hours]] The Energy Regulatory Authority does not have the conclusions of sector investigations carried out so far and, according to the information available, no sector investigation has yet been carried out for the plants put into service since 2010, and this segment can, in particular, be considered key and most risky for photovoltaic power stations and biogas stations in terms of possible overcompensation. The saving of aid costs will therefore primarily depend on the results of the sector investigation in the risk segments of renewable resources, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. If we accept the theoretical assumption that the overcompensation will relate mainly to photovoltaic power plants from 2009 and 2010 and biogas stations from 2010 to 2012 and, at the same time, to the entire sector as a whole, then it can be expected that every 1% of the overcompensation above the approved threshold of the internal yield percentage can ultimately mean the maximum possible cost savings of lower units of CZK billion per year, based on a regular model calculation of approximately 2 billion per year. This is the maximum theoretical savings if the sector investigation actually demonstrates overcompensation and at the same time overcompensates all production facilities in the sector regardless of their size and individual measures taken. As mentioned above, the actual rate of overcompensation can only be determined on the basis of the results of the sector investigation,"the letter continues. Sorry for the delay, I really felt it was necessary to mention this here. We have carried out our own analyses and calculations in recent weeks, and we have come to the conclusion that the optimal and fair number should be somewhere around the bottom of the compromise proposed parliamentary proposal, which should also be supported by the government. So it's the 8.4 percent. I also have a certain accompanying resolution. So allow me to mention another topic that my colleague Radek Holomčík has already mentioned here, and there has also been a discussion here a while ago, and therefore a proposal for a double increase in the bio-component in fuels, because the state has interpreted the European directive in many ways and we have tried several times in the past to change the poorly set system of support for biofuels. So, while our MP Radek Holomčík proposed to completely abolish the mandatory incorporation of biofuels into fuel, the current proposal doubles the proportion of the bio-component. Therefore, I will also ask here for the support of Amendment I2, which we are returning to the original value. I didn't want to intervene in the previous discussion that was going on here in fact, but allow me to follow up on Radek Holomčík. In fact, if we have a binding goal here, above all, of reducing carbon dioxide emissions in transport to specific percentages, there are a few tools available there than automatic incorporation of a bio-component, whose actual efficiency, especially in the first generation, is quite questionable. Of course, we can have a debate here about the fact that molasses biomass is the same waste raw material and that it doesn't affect agriculture in any way, but then there is a lack of balance in exact numbers of waste molasses and whether this number can be filled. I do not even want to talk about another topic such as the development of infrastructure for electromobility, I understand that it would be for another very heated discussion, but it will not allow me to mention it here another instrument, and this is general support for public public public transport, traction transport, whether personal or freight. For example, there is a lack of incentive mechanism for greater use of rail freight transport instead of a truck, and I could continue this way. So these are precisely the tools that will help us achieve a reduction in transport emissions. For this reason, too, we support, for example, Mr Kolovratník's amendment concerning precisely traction transport, because he is in fact also in line with our proposal, which we have already historically submitted in connection with the Act on Trade in Emission Allowances. Perhaps let me mention the topic of heating in the periphery, because it is unique in the Czech Republic, and how it works and ensures the warmth of many millions of households in the Czech Republic, is something that certainly cannot be thrown away and destroyed. However, the impact of emission allowance trading, which will hit plants that did not really modernize the fuel source and did not seek further modernisation, so the impact of the increase in the emission allowance price on them will indeed be fatal, and the question is whether we should hammer it out with another wedge, or wonder how it will end up with the honest ones who have honestly upgraded and historically invested in them and actually maintain the system of resources and distributions at a very high technological level. So if I were to return in general, the law should generally be technologically neutral, it should make maximum use of market instruments. At the same time, it should guarantee the stability of the business environment in that segment. I have already mentioned that there is no clear analysis of the effects. And above all - and perhaps in conclusion, because this is also very often discussed - how to make effective use of the benefits of emission allowances under the modernisation fund, because this is the way to promote small resources and not throw away the modernisation fund to large operators, who, on the contrary - and I am going back to it - can compete in auctions. I would like to mention the accompanying resolutions at this time, or we can fine-tune them and read them again: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic I. asks the Government of the Czech Republic that individual calls for the modernization fund should go to the maximum to support smaller installations in the electricity sector and to modernize the Czech heating industry; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to set the yield percentage uniformly for all renewable resources at 8,4%' - I presume that a parliamentary proposal will be adopted setting a range of 8,4 to 10,6; "III. Asks the Government of the Czech Republic to use market mechanisms as efficiently as possible to support new installations of renewable energy sources above 1 megawatt and to treat all types of resources fairly in the same way." Maybe I'll just add what happens in case it goes to 8.4 percent. Biogas will drop from the proposed 10.6 to 8.4 at the same time, and now I take it against the original government proposal, biomass from 9.5 to 8.4. Photovoltaic is debatable because the government proposal originally said something other than what left the government. And as for wind and water, there would be a slight increase from 7 to 7.4, which I can probably mention here that water is something that it has here - the use of water has a great tradition here, we have a lot of available technology, and the wind still has unused potential here. I will also leave the subject of internal yield percentages, because this law solves many other things. I would also like to support Amendment 3, which also allows installation on agricultural areas, i.e. the so-called agrivoltaics. For example, the modernization fund is already working with the term, but no other Czech legislation knows the term and does not allow for the co-operation of agricultural use in the final, either for targeted crop cultivation or for further agricultural use and the location of the plant itself. I would also like to support the amendment under the designation I4, which deals with the connection of micro-sources, the sale of unused electricity from micro-sources, as well as the right of the customer to withdraw from the contract in the capacity of the micro-source owner. That's all for me at this point. If there is any further development in the debate, I will respond if necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u37	That was Mr. Congressman Třešňák. Now Radek Holomčík, prepare Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one more point here, very strongly to warn against creating some legislative or, in particular, economic pressures on the enormous use of biomass, i.e. in our environment primarily wood and wood chips. This concerns both this law and so I would like to say this warning also for some future debates, because those tendencies appear and appear. So I'd like it to sound like a microphone here, so the public will know about this risk. [[11.00 hours]] In the case of this printing, we are talking primarily about mixing biomass. Let me say it again: we just have biomass in the vast majority of wood matter, chips and so on. We are talking about mixing biomass into coal boilers and I, in this regard, and in fact our entire club, support Mr Pávek's amendment, led as a G3 proposal. I would like to ask you to support it because it sets some meaningful ceiling so that we do not create exactly the senseless and unhealthy pressure on wood burning and biomass burning that I have mentioned here. And I'll try to explain why, where I see the risk. First, let us review what the reality of our forests is and what the reality of the wood market is. In the Czech woods was standard before the barking calamity was etched and they were mined annually on some, say, 17 to 19 million ccs. Last year, mining jumped to almost 36 million cc's, almost double. Of course, the question is, how is this number relevant, if there were any late recorded extractions from the previous year, but just the almost double volume of mining is reality. The other thing that we are dealing with right now is that there is actually some trade policy of Czech forestry, and especially of the State Forests, where many representatives of the woodworking industry are now turning to me, including owners of the smallest sawmills, with the fact that the state forests export a considerable amount of wood to China and other countries and at the same time the Czech saws either release or close completely because they simply have nothing to cut. It is such an absurd situation and actually has to do with the fact that the Czech Republic has refused or is unable to adopt and work with some raw material policy as a state. We're just pretending, and I've been pointing it out here for years, like there's no wood, there's no woodworking industry. I find that very unfortunate. And if we were to - I'm thinking how to put it politely - just hand in hand with the problems that are, putting pressure on some huge amounts of wood burning, wood chips, it could actually bury both the wood-processing industry or at least damage it, so of course it can have a negative impact on forests and forestry itself. And now I'm getting to the four things I'd like to warn about or lead to. If we put pressure on the burning of wood, companies, whether heat plants or technology companies, which will use it not only in the heating industry, but also for energy production, will have to secure that volume somehow. And how's he gonna secure it? Well, the wood stocks in the Czech Republic are very unknown. We had a conference here, a seminar. They are assumed - there are some curves of how these reserves will evolve following the calamity. Anyway, the situation isn't good, so if they want to ensure a permanent supply of raw material for burning in boilers, one of the possible solutions is that wood or material will be imported from somewhere. And admit that by increasing emissions from transport, we'll be driving the wood from somewhere, who knows what it's going to be like to bring problems to the landscape and nature. That's just wrong. The next thing I'm worried about is more pressure to burn a forest fortune. Forest playground is a material that is on the surface of the forest soil, it is simply branches of leaves, simply organic remains, which are very important for the biodiversity of the forest. A large part of life is in some way with the playground and the surface associated with it is dependent on it. If we're gonna burn this thing, we're gonna damage it, and in the worst case, we're gonna kill biodiversity in our woods. Even international expert panels say that biodiversity loss is among the three biggest environmental problems on a global scale. The third thing that can happen, and those tendencies also appear, is the pressure to shorten the time of the mist, which means reducing, in a very simple way, the age of trees in which they can cut down for economic use. It's a little different, but for the record, I think it's enough. This means that instead of trying to have forests that are varied, where young crops, middle-aged crops, and, of course, older-age crops, we will be pressured to have old trees, but also trees that are 60 years old, if we talk about spruce and some conifers, they will be under pressure from the forest, they will be burned in boilers. And it's the thing where, given that forestry doesn't count for years, but for decades, we're essentially just going to move the problem by the time we shorten the age by which we're going to shorten this by, which means, like, 20 years from now, our kids are going to figure out that we've perfected out the woods. We don't want it. And the fourth thing - it no longer concerns the forests - which may occur is agro-forestry. We are here, I believe, that it was May 2018, with our colleague Jurečka organized a large seminar on agroforestry, on the combination of classical agricultural production and wood growing, and there was a clear statement, and the results from practice show that this is a very interesting opportunity to improve the state of our landscape, biodiversity in the countryside, its ability to manage water, but also how to bring more money to farmers. And I must say that since then - and here I would like to say, the Minister of Agriculture is not here to commend the Ministry of Agriculture - the instigation for agriculture has somehow been approached. It's all moving. Of course, there's always something to fix, but I think this is the right course. And if we create enormous pressure on wood burning, then we can become a nightmare from the desired agro-forestry that we want, because we are going to grow large plantations of fast-growing trees, Japanese poplar and others on agricultural soil, and we are going to achieve that, better yet, these monocultures are going to push out the monocultures of energy crops here, and worse, they are going to push out other crops that we use primarily for food industry. Again, just hammering a wedge with a wedge. And these four things are a big risk. I wanted them to be heard here, I wanted to say them, and I will remind them every time we talk about this type of reflection in this type of proposal, because I really see it as a threat to our country, a threat to the future of this country. And I would therefore ask you very much if you, like us, could support Mr Pávek's amendment led by the G3 which sets a ceiling for us not to open the door to plundering our country, to plundering our forests under the pretext of burning biomass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u39	That was Mr Radek Holomčík, now Leo Luzar, who will prepare Martin Kolovratník. My colleague Luzar is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're at the third reading. I have now misunderstood - and now delicate criticism of my previous speakers - the extensive material that they have presented to us here, because if anything is to be counterproductive to the outcome and beliefs of colleagues and colleagues to support a proposal, it is precisely such a long explanation of the materials, even if it is true. I'm not questioning what was said here at this microphone. Unfortunately, the length of these speeches and details have driven most of the colleagues out of this hall, and they will follow those who, as the people say, will raise their hand for others. And the impact effect of the explanation remained minimal. It's just a little complaint. But colleagues from the Pirate Party, I suppose, probably knows why they've been performing so long and why they've been discussing their proposals so long before this diaper. I will return to my amendments, which I have made, and I will explain one approach that we have taken since the very beginning of the discussion of this material. This is a fundamental dispute that has been dragged all along, it is an IRR, an internal yield percentage that has been discussed about as the most complex. The upper limit of 10.6, which is proposed, is unacceptable to us from the beginning because it determines the highest support in bioenergy quotation marks. From our point of view, this is quite a big problem, because unlike other, technologically perhaps older, but perhaps in a better starting position, to other technologies - so that we can name it, but I don't want to go into technical details - favors these bio-based bio-metals and other bio-products - in an internal yield percentage. What's gonna happen? Today, investment in renewables is no longer an investment of renewables fans, but it is purely business. It is a purely business of financial groups that are looking for interesting subsidised titles in the market and they support them. So what happens is that a person comes in and says, "I have land, I have space, I have options, I want to run something like this, and I intend to build something like this - and now I'm going to shoot - some sort of vertical photovoltaic, and it's going to come into the bank because it doesn't have the resources. And the financial institution says to him, "It's nice, we like it, we support it, but the yield percentage is 8.6, 6.4 - and now we can shoot, but the higher support is 10.6 has organic. And if you already have the land and you want to do something like that, then start doing biogas there, because we're gonna get more money. You pay back faster, we support you more, and it's business. That's why I pointed out from the start that we shouldn't focus on putting the range in place, whether it suits one industry or another, because it goes back to basic support, and if you look at the example of photovoltaics, that's exactly what happened. The little ones who really started on the rooftops and the agricultural cooperatives on the untapped fields that started doing it, so in their end, they were beaten by the big ones who did it only in the business. Among other things, it is the proposal of a colleague, Pavel Kováčik, who will be voted today to straighten out the farmers' approach to the big ones. Today, the photovoltaics don't even own the original owners, they're out-sold today, and they're big investment groups that see the business in it. And we're worried that the maximum support for the 10.6 - if I'm not mistaken - which is planned for those in bio quotation marks will just fuel the huge growth of this sector over others that we would like to support, such as water and other resources, and exactly what happened in photovoltaics will happen. That is why we are proposing and supporting the amendments that talk about one issue, which is 9.5, which is a compromise between different proposals, whether organic or solar, and it is one number that will not mean an advantage to any of those disciplines, so that the financial groups that finance all of this today do not push to the sawmill and force the field into the direction they want for their revenues, but that it is really because of what we need in the Czech Republic. Of course, we have historical ballast solariums, we know that. That is why I have prepared an amendment under proposal J2, which speaks of a solar tax. It is the highest tax that is proposed from the various taxes that are here in this proposal - orientally 15 to 25 percent - which, thanks to a single yield percentage of 9.5, these resources would be burdened to make up for it and to avoid reproaches that we are actually supporting someone with a higher yield percentage. So here these historical things are going to be charged with this and we're going to settle this procedure. Unfortunately, in the voting procedure it is shifted and it should theoretically be the opposite, that is, to decide first on the yield percentage and subsequently either to impose a tax or not to impose a tax according to the amount of the yield percentage. But I'm not going to challenge the procedure at this point because I appreciate the rapporteur's work and he didn't have it easy in this case. I just want to point out that the procedure on this issue is a little illogical, because I firmly believe that my amendment to the highest taxation here will pass. But at that point, it has to be taken into account even in the yield percentage, in order to be reasonable, so that we don't overdo it again and burden it too much. That's the yield percentage I think will still be debatable. I might just give the rapporteur a moment to consider, if it were to come to the conclusion that, in the end, there would not be a possibility that the law would be adopted as a whole, so that we might try to provoke another argument procedure or something like that. I can't exactly imagine the procedure right now, but maybe it would be the worst thing that could happen if the law as a whole fell under the table. That's the second thing, and the Minister has to sort himself out after that, what could happen in this House. I can't imagine it, but it's got to be a way of making a deal. But what I would like to point out is what I would really ask you, colleagues, to pay attention to the other of my amendment. It's procedure number 25, but mostly J1 - I'd like you to remember the letter J1. It is a proposal that will reduce fuel prices in the Czech Republic only by opening information about price levels in a competitive environment. Do we want to reduce fuel prices for citizens? Then let's get the fuel vendor to publish the current fuel prices at their petrol stations. It is an absolutely market solution that if we apply, the citizen will be able to choose if he is interested in saving where the fuel is cheapest. At the same time, it will be pressure on suppliers and sellers to guard prices and not push up. I'm warning you again, J1. This will reduce fuel prices for citizens. When you look at the price increase, five minutes after TV says that the price of the inputs has gone up, all the pumps will get more expensive, because that's right. But when it's said on TV that fuel prices are going down, it can't go down as fast as those prices are going up. This would help to publish the information that a citizen can look at mobile apps and other Internet accesses such as current fuel prices in its surroundings and go to a specific pump where they may be the best ratio between quality and price. [[11.20 hours]] This is the J1, which is designed here and which just says that here it is an obligation to publish these data allowing remote access to this data. In the argument of rejection by the Ministry, the only thing was that it would put too much burden on the seller by this publication. But this isn't about salesmen, this is really about consumers. It is a purely consumer proposal, proposal J1 for those who want to make a note that tells sellers: You are obliged to publish data on current fuel prices so that citizens can find out what the current price is for the pump, where they are going, and, if necessary, decide to go to another one. Only this detail is able to achieve in the market, which is overcrowded by petrol stations in the Czech Republic, that they fall by a percentage of fuel prices in order, because competition works very well here. And when this publication, I repeat once again, J1's amendment, we will achieve a reduction in prices for citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u41	Thank you, Mr Leo Luzar. Before Martin Kolovratník gets the floor, there is a factual remark by Petr Třešňák. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u42	I don't want to waste any time, because then we still have a very important 799. Just a quick response to Mr Luzar. With this amendment, it is probably a little premature to say that it will automatically make petrol cheaper. We have a free vote on this because it feels like a icing on the cake, not something that would automatically make petrol cheaper. It can also be the other way around. Today there are many apps, I can read from Google Play Pumpkin, Tank Navigator, and many pumpers enter prices there already. In fact, it's also their competitive advantage - that somebody does it and somebody doesn't. By automatically giving everyone an obligation to write it every day in a table, we certainly will not automatically discount the price of petrol.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment by Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u44	Thank you and I will respond, through you, to my colleague Třešňák. Yes, that is precisely the objective of Amendment J1, so that these different applications and software can be filled with the data. Because if you look at them - we can be here together now, but I don't want to delay, go through the apps - you won't find the prices there, because all these programs have the current price, but it's empty because that's exactly what they're afraid of. And if we make it public, like the competition doesn't have to, and so on. This is an equal approach for everyone, everyone makes it public, and the citizen chooses, not another company that tries. [[with emphasis]] But a citizen will have the opportunity to choose, to do so, I repeat, J1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u45	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and now Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u46	Good afternoon. I will give a super brief speech on two amendments. One is relatively small, but essential, compared to the overall message or the main theme of the law, it relates to installed electricity generation at the end of 2010, which was only connected in winter 2011. From my point of view, the other is very important, essential, for transport, for public transport, for both rail and transport undertakings, i.e. urban public transport. As I said, these proposals are about the most important ones, as the agreement of the Chamber of Deputies took place in the debate, the political ones, the basic ones, the limit or the interval that will be agreed. Here I want to thank my colleagues so much for the difficult debate that I followed from a distance. I will definitely support for myself the way we agreed on the Economic Committee. And now for the amendments. The first one is under the letter E of a colleague Pavel Kováčik. He is trying to help... or correct the state he perceives - and I agree with him in this - as unbalanced, maybe I can also use the word wrong, when certain quantities of those plants - and typically imagine, they are solar power plants or the production plant on the roof of the cowshed, on the roof of some carpentry, business and so on, so they are not the type of solar fields, the agricultural land trades - so it applies, we calculated it, 29 entities that ended the work or preparation and construction in the autumn of September, October, November 2010, submitted a request for connection, but unfortunately they were added only in 2011, so when I simplify it, roughly half the purchase price. Mr Kováčik tabled an amendment under letter E, where he says that these should therefore be assessed more fairly from his point of view, by considering themselves put into service on the date of the legal power of the decision. I propose a legislative technical amendment to his amendment in accordance with the author, we talked about it. The text contains two improvements, clarifications which do not alter the content of the amendment in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the first moment, it merely specifies or amends the original text, where "the acquisition of the legal power of the licence" was said - so it correctly brings it into line with the Energy Act - "the decision on the grant of the licence" became legal, so it is merely terminology. And then the second amendment in this text is at the end of the text, where the proposal states that these factories are considered to have been put into service on the date of obtaining legal power of the decision, and I say that it is specified, and therefore in accordance with the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, that they are considered - or are proposed to be clarified - during the period from 1 January 2022 as put into service on the date of that decision. In other words, this amendment, if agreed by the House as legislative technical, gives certainty that the amendment is not taken retrospectively, that it will not be enforced retroactively, but until next year. And the second amendment, which is my personal under letter F, and I want to briefly talk about it and ask you, if that is what you colleagues feel, for support. The Economic Committee supported him, the Ministry of Industry didn't support him, it doesn't agree. We have talked about this with the Minister, we have explained our views and I understand the disagreement as the promoter, but on the other hand, for transport, for the public transport ministry, I have to fight and I just want to try and ask you for your support. Very simply - in point F, I propose that all carriers using electricity, the so-called traction electricity, do not have to pay a fee for the renewal or support of renewable resources at the price at which they purchase electricity. For your idea, it concerns both the whole Czech railway, this means passenger carriers, České dráhy as a national carrier and private type RegioJet, Leo Express and others, it concerns freight carriers. And what I would like to highlight is this, colleagues, concerns all transport companies in the Czech Republic. You, who are representatives of the larger statutory cities, such as me from Pardubice, Olomouc, Ostrava, Brno, and the smaller ones, if this were accepted, and the transport companies that have trams, trolley buses and the like, therefore use electricity for public environmental public transport, would be forgiven. The reasons for my proposal are two: firstly, the fact that traction energy is dramatically increasing, today, according to internal reports from the Railway Administration, which sells - trades electricity - carriers, so we are somewhere at CZK 2,000 per megawatt hour and threatens to further increase due to the price of emission allowances, so that in these permits the carriers are actually contributing to ecology, renewable resources. And the second reason is also post-covide time when transport companies are at the moment due to a loss of income, a reduction in the number of people travelling by public transport last year, are also at the edge of a simple renewal of the fleet, modernization, whether ecological trolleybuses, hybrid vehicles, new ways of propulsion, which we are trying to do and which many of us often support here in our performances. So if you feel the same way as I do, I will ask here for the support of the amendment under the letter F, which therefore says, once again, that all carriers on rail, passenger, freight, as well as transport companies in the Czech Republic, in the traction energy they purchase, no longer pay a fee to support renewable sources in the environmental public transport system. In fact, if this were accepted, we are talking about some amount of less than 900 million crowns, which would be good for these very carriers. Of course, the decision will be yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u47	Thank you, Mr Martin Kolovratník. This was the last written entry into the debate. I'm asking, who else is reporting for the debate? My colleague, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, is reporting from the scene. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support Mr Dolínek's amendment to allow auctions to be made to all kinds of resources, not just to some selected ones. If, for the least possible amount of money, our goal is to build the maximum capacity of renewable energy sources in the field of energy, then it is appropriate to let the broadest possible spectrum into the auctions, let what is going best financially be built. I wanted to ask for the support of this proposal, which supports the free market, promotes open competition and is fair. I think this is the right way to go, and I don't understand why auctions are limited to only some of the resources. I also point out that the proposal to increase the mandatory incorporation of biofuels is extremely problematic. It records some specific subjects, coincidentally in the hands of the Prime Minister, but there is indeed more to the instruments for meeting the emission targets that we have agreed to within the European Union. After all, a colleague of mine, Kolovratník, has just mentioned one of them. Let us go that way, make use of the most effective tools to meet those objectives, and it is certainly not the promotion of first-generation biofuels. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u49	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would still like to ask, in the course of this debate, to withdraw the amendment under number C5, which is mine. As part of the procedure, I'll sort it out later. I request that Amendment C5 be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u51	Yes, we will vote separately. I'm asking, who else for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? No need. The rapporteur? He's not interested. Mr. Pražák as rapporteur for the agricultural committee? Not either. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur to brief us on the voting procedure. Please note that after approval of the procedure, the Pirate Party Club requested a 15-minute recess before the vote, but after approval of the procedure, to clarify the procedure. Mr. Rapporteur, the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u52	Thank you for the floor. As I have already announced in the previous debate, I would propose a counter-proposal for the procedure approved by the Economic Committee. And now I dare to justify the counterproposal. I sent him to all the members of parliament about a week ago. The reasoning is as follows. First of all, I would like to ask for the withdrawal of Amendment C5, which concerns the first registration with the market operator. It is my amendment, and it is because of the shortcomings that we have discovered there. No further vote can be taken on amendments H5 and H6 together with A55, A57 to A59, because H5 and H6 are incompatible with A57 and mutually exclusive. So at the end of the procedure, we have to vote correctly on H5 and H6. Furthermore, Amendment H4 merely regulates Amendments A52 and A53, which is why we will then vote, if necessary, on A52 and A53 with modified H4. The Economic Committee recommended modified proposals A52 and A53 but did not recommend the original version. This will also be solved by the new procedure. Amendment I1 amends Amendment A5, which is why this amendment needs to be voted before A5. Similarly, Amendment I2 amends Amendment A100 and therefore it is also necessary to vote A100 even if I2 is adopted. The procedure then dropped out a possible vote on proposal C1.2, so it was added to the procedure. We will not vote on Amendment H11 because before that, we have a vote on an identical proposal D3. In the case of proposal K, it is specified in the procedure when the vote is on part K1 and when the proposal K2. So much justification for changing the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u53	Okay. Does anyone have any comment on the procedure itself? A motion to change the procedure? If not, we will approve the procedure by voting. I think everyone's in their seats. I've started voting number 163 and I'm asking who agrees with the procedure proposed? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 163, 178 present, 167 in favour, against no one. [[The motion was accepted. The procedure has been approved.]] According to the visa I said, the Pirate Party Club asked for a 15-minute recess after the procedure was approved. I'm declaring a break until 11.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue after the break for a meeting of the Pirate Party's MP and we will begin by voting according to the approved procedure. I repeat that the rapporteur will present individual amendments, giving the opinion of the Economic Committee on them. I will also always ask for an opinion from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. And now I would ask you to take your seats so that we can vote for each amendment. I'll wait a little longer. The first in the procedure will be the vote on the approval of the Chamber of Deputies with the withdrawal of C5. To the vote? [[To Mr. Martínk.]] The procedure is approved, colleague, but of course you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u55	I would just like to announce in the course of the vote that, as a family, we have one five-kilowatt solar power plant on the roof, so that I may announce a possible conflict of interest here in advance, and that is why I will abstain on certain points of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u56	Okay. Proper announcement of conflict of interest under the Rules of Procedure Act. Now, rapporteur, if you are ready, I will ask everyone else to take their seats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u57	Thank you for the floor. The first vote will be to withdraw Amendment C5, which I have tabled, and concerns the condition of the first registration of applicants for aid in OTE.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u58	So who agrees that Amendment C5 should be withdrawn from the vote? I've started voting number 164. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 164, out of 180 registered 173 pros, against no one. The proposal was adopted and Amendment C5, item 42 of the list of amendments, has been withdrawn, will not be voted on. Before we take the first vote, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Vít Rakušan for working reasons today. So, rapporteur, second proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u59	As the second item, we are voting on legislative technical amendments under Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. It is a legislative technical regulation, which Mr Kolovratník was reading here on the amendment e by Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u60	Okay. Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I have begun voting number 165 and I ask who is in favour of adopting legislative technical regulation? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 165, 180 present, 177 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u61	As a third item, we are voting in Amendment C2, which is my amendment, which concerns shifting the date of application of certain provisions of the amendment to the POZE Act. It's a technical solution in the application of the law. Opinion of the Economic Committee: recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u62	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 166 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 166, of the 180 present is 156 pros, against no one. The amendment was adopted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u63	As the fourth point, we were to vote on Amendment A101. We will not vote by adopting Amendment C2. The next item to be voted on is Amendment C4. These are transitional transformational heat support in EST systems, as we discussed today, which should compensate for the price of the allowances at the price of heat. This applies to resources that are committed to 2030 since the transition from coal to other fuels. Opinion of the Economic Committee: recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u64	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 167. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 167, present 180, for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u65	So, by approving Amendment C4, Amendments A55, A57, A58, A59, as amended by Amendment C4 as adopted, and H5 and H6 are not voting in Part 2. So we're not voting point six, I've just given that reason. Next item is item 7. It is an amendment to H by Mr Jurečka. This amendment concerns the adjustment of sustainability criteria for biomass, gaseous fuels from biomass, and complements the requirements for sustainability criteria for electricity generation plants as well. Opinion of the Economic Committee: recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u66	I checked you all out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. It's H4. It is one higher against the resolution of the Economic Committee because we voted in paragraph 42 in another vote. All logged in, you've heard the views. I've started voting number 168 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 168, present 178, for 144, against 22. This proposal was adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u67	We will also vote on Amendments A52 and A53 with one vote. They are amendments to the Economic Committee. Amendment A52 concerns the conditions for the issue, registration and recognition of guarantees of origin of renewable sources and Amendment A53 certificates of origin from KVET and secondary sources of energy. Opinion of the Economic Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u68	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 169. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 169, present 177, for 84, against 43. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u69	The next proposal is Amendment H7 by Mr Jurečka. It is an adjustment of technical conditions ensuring sustainability and technical feasibility. Compromise solution with the approval of the MIT. It is a useful use of heat from biogas at 40 percent level. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u70	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 170. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 170, 177 present, 133 in favour, 18 against. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u71	The approval of this amendment is not a voteable amendment A15. The next amendment that we are going to vote on is Mr Jurečka H8's amendment and it is maintenance support for electricity from biogas stations. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u72	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 171. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 171, present 177, for 32, anti 82. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u73	The next proposal is Amendment A14 and concerns biomass and the determination of specific operating costs. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u74	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 172. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 172, present 177, 153 in favour, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u75	The next item that we are going to vote on is the amendment H9 by Mr Jurečka, and it is an amendment that regulates the lifetime period for resources of small hydropower plants before 2006 for the lifetime period laid down by the decree. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u76	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 173. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 173, presence 176, for 38, anti-64. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u77	Another proposal is the amendment of the A66 Economic Committee and it is the right to support small hydropower plants by 31. 12. 2025 for resources put into operation before 2006. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u78	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 174. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 174, 177 for 151 Members, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u79	The next amendment is Amendment I1 by Mr Třešňák and it is an extension of the definition of aid including synthesis gas. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u80	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 175. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 175, present 177, for 20, against 11. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u81	The next vote will be the vote of Mr Třešňák I2's amendment, and it is the abolition of the increase in the share of biofuels in diesel petrol. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u82	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 176. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 176, present 176, for 81, versus 35. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u83	Another is the amendment of the A100 Economic Committee, which increases the share of biofuels in diesel petrol. The opinion of the Economic Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u84	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 177. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 177, 176 present, 70 in favour, 84 against. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u85	Another amendment that we will be voting on is the amendment of the Economic Committee A1 and concerns the amendment of the name of the law. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u86	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 178. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 178, 177, for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u87	Therefore, Amendment A2 is unvoting. Another amendment that we are going to vote on is Amendment A72 and it is an amendment by the Economic Committee, which deals with the determination of the amount of aid by the Authority, meant by the Energy Regulatory Authority, under Act No. 165/2012 Coll. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u88	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 179. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 179, 177, in favour of 173, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u89	The next A71 proposal is therefore unvoting. The next amendment that we are going to vote on is Amendment A96, and it is an exception to the obligation to issue a price decision to determine the amount of aid for the 2022 calendar year until 30 November 2021. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u90	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 180. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 180, 177, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u91	Amendment A95 is unvoting. Furthermore, we are voting on Amendments A as amended. This concerns the promotion of biomethane, the achievement of objectives in this area, the elimination of the risk of excessive aid, the definition of offences, the ERU Council and others. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u92	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 181. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 181, present 177, for 155, versus 18. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u93	The next amendment is Amendment J1 by Mr Luzar and requires gas station operators to publish fuel prices by remote access. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u94	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 182. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 182, present in 176, for 35, versus 79. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u95	The other proposal is Amendment C3 which I have tabled and concerns the clarification of the procedure for reducing the aid to the OZ. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u96	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 183. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 183, present 177, for 173, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u97	The next proposal is Mr Dolínek's amendment D4 and it is an amendment concerning a solar levy of 10 per cent for 2009 of photovoltaics, 20 per cent for photovoltaics 2010 and further introduces a mechanism to prevent a disproportionate reduction of revenue, the so-called valve. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u98	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 184. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 184, present 177, for 125, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u99	Another amendment is the amendment - C1.2 is unvoteable, Amendment C1.2 is unvoteable because D4 was adopted, as well as Amendment J2 is unvoteable, Amendment C1.1. Yes, we will now vote on Amendment C1.1, and it is my proposal which introduces an internal yield rate of 8,4 to 10.6 %. It is essentially an interval that includes all other amendments except K2. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u100	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 185. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 185, present 177, for 78, versus 36. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u101	The next amendment that we are going to vote on is the amendment by Petr Dolínek D2 and it is only an increase of IRR to 8.4 percent for photovoltaics. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u102	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 186. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 186, 177, for 77, against 22. Nor has this proposal been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u103	The next proposal that we are going to vote on is Amendment H2. Mr Jurečka and they are different ranges of IRRs for different types of renewable sources, it is 8,4 to 9,5 for non-fuel RES and 9.5 to 10,6 for fuel RES. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u104	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 187. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 187, 177, for 94, against 19. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u105	Therefore, there is no voteable amendment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u106	Sorry. Audit of votes - announced by the chairman of the ODS club. [[After a while.]] Mr. Výborný reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u107	Vice-President, I'm sorry. It was my first time in this parliamentary term. For this last vote, I've got a high for, I've voted 'I've been held up'. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u108	Okay. Mr Výborný notes the discrepancy between the will expressed in the vote and the electronic record. We are going to vote in the 188 vote that I have begun, and I ask, who agrees that the vote will be repeated? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 188, present 177, for 155, versus 2. The motion was accepted. The objection was therefore accepted. We will repeat the vote. I will ask the rapporteur and the Minister again for an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u109	So we will vote again on Mr Jurečka's amendment H2.2 which proposes two intervals for the internal yield percentage from 8.4 to 9.5 for non-fuel resources and 9.5 to 10.6 for so-called fuel sources. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u110	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 189. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 189, present 177, for 73, against 18. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u111	Another amendment that we're gonna be... [[- Quiet, please!]] The next amendment that we will be voting on is Mr Pávek's Amendment G2.1 and it is a narrowing of the interval for the internal yield percentage from 8.4 to 9.5 %. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u112	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 190. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 190, present 177, for 77, versus 2. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u113	The next proposal is Amendment H3.1 and it is a uniform IRR... It is Mr Jurečka's amendment and it is a uniform IRR rate of 9.5%. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u114	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 191 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 191 was 177, for 48, against 51. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u115	Another amendment to Mr Pávek's G1 amendment and it is a uniform IRR rate of 9.5%.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u116	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Economic Committee without an opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 192 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 192, present 176, for 31, anti 53. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u117	The next amendment is Amendment D1.1 by Mr Dolínek and it is a narrowing of the interval from 9.5 to 10.6 percent, so 9.5 to 10.6. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u118	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting 193. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 193, from 177 in favour of 2, against 68. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u119	The next proposal is Mr Kohoutek's amendment to K2 and it is a reduction of IRR support to 6.3 % for all resources. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u120	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 194 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 194, in 176, for 21, against 91 Members. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u121	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment B, Part 1. It is an amendment to the agricultural committee, which addresses a situation where there are more resources in the production plant, but only some of them are modernised. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u122	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 195. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 195, 177 present, for 3, against 22. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u123	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment B, Part 2. It is an amendment to the Agricultural Committee and means an increase in the value of the internal yield percentage for small hydropower plants to 10,6 %. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u124	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 196, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 196, present 177, for 6, versus 4. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u125	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment D3 of Mr Dolínek, which introduces operating aid for electricity from new photovoltaic power plants, which means auction. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u126	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting in '97, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 197, 177, for 42, versus 5. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u127	Another amendment is the amendment of Mr H12 to Mr Jurečka and introduces operational support for electricity from new photovoltaic power stations and biogas stations, in other words auctions for photovoltaics and biogas. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u128	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 198, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 198, present 177, for 39, anti 23. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u129	We will also vote on the amendment H10 by Mr Jurečka and it is the introduction of operational support for electricity from new biogas stations. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u130	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 199, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 199, 177, for 22, against 49. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u131	The next proposal is Amendment C5, which we have withdrawn, which makes it unvoting. We will also vote on Amendment E, this is Mr Kováčik's amendment, it is a change in the entry into service for several photovoltaics from the beginning of 2011, which means an increase in support, and it is in the wording of the legislative technical amendments read by Mr Kolovratník. Opinion of the Economic Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u132	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 200, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 200, 177 for 14 against 89. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u133	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment F to Mr Kolovratník, and it is the exemption of electricity consumed in rail transport from the POZE charges. The Economic Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u134	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 201. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 201, from 177 in favour of 103, against 17. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u135	The next amendment that we are going to vote on is the G3 amendment to Mr Pávek, and it is a restriction on the promotion of heat only to sources outside the EU ETS, which is the biomass below 20 megawatt. Economic Committee: without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u136	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 202. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 202, from 178 in favour of 41 Members, against 19. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u137	The next proposal is Amendment G4, option 1. It is Mr Pávek's amendment and abolishes the exemption from the obligation of mandatory bio-components in the reserve of fuels for the military. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u138	Opinion, Minister? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 203. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 203, 178 present, for 9, against 52. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u139	The next amendment is G4, variant 2, again Mr Pávek. This concerns the same thing, only the amendment adds a transitional period which introduces a period of 12 months from the entry into force of the law. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u140	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 204. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 204, from 178 in favour of 6, against 68. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u141	The next amendment is Amendment H1 by Mr Jurečka, which regulates the methodology for a possible year-on-year change in operating support for fuel sources during operation. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u142	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 205. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 205, 178 present, 38 in favour, 62 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u143	Furthermore, there is Amendment H5, which is unvoteable because we adopted C4, H6 unvoteable because it was adopted by C4. We will continue to vote on Mr I3's amendment to Mr Třešňák, and it is actually the definition of agrophotovoltaic. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u144	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 206. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 206, 178 present, 78 in favour, 73 against. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u145	Furthermore, there is Amendment I4 by Mr Třešňák and it is the imposition of an obligation on the distribution system operator to attach new resources, unless it is prevented by technical... [[Request for a vote check.]] Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u146	Sorry. One more vote check. [[Member Stanjura checks the results of the vote.]] Mr Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u147	Thank you for the floor. I would like to object to the outcome of the vote. I voted in favour, and I've got a "staying" at the junk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u148	Okay. We will therefore vote on whether to grant the right to re-vote in the 207 vote that I have launched. I ask, who agrees to repeat the vote to the I3? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 207, present 177, for 166, versus 1. The House agrees to repeat the vote on Amendment I3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u149	So, once again, we will vote on Amendment I3 from Mr Třešňák's pen, which introduces the definition of agrophotovoltaic. The opinion of the Economic Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u150	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 208. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 208, from 177 in favour of 80, against 71. Even this time it was rejected. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u151	The next vote will be on Mr Třešňák's Amendment I4 and it is the imposition of an obligation on the distribution system operator to add new resources if this is not prevented by technical reasons and explicitly introduces the possibility of selling electricity from the source up to 10 kW without a licence into the Energy Act. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u152	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 209. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 209, present 177, for 29, against 95. The motion was denied. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u153	Yes, we have therefore voted on all the amendments that have been voted on, and we should vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u154	I will ask all those who tabled amendments, just in case, if their amendments have been voted. I do not see the objection, in which case all proposals have been voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms of business and performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, according to House Press 870, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 210 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 210, from 177 in favour of 113, against 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and we will address the accompanying resolution on this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u155	Furthermore, in the context of this point, accompanying resolutions were proposed by Mr Třešňák. There are three of them. I will introduce you to their wording: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic" - sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u156	pardon, Mr. Bělobrádek is voting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u157	To vote on the law as a whole - I have a yes at the junk, I abstained. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u158	Yes, thank you, for the record. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u159	Thank you. So, once again, I would like to introduce you to the proposals for accompanying resolutions on the House of Press 870 by Mr Třešňák: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. asks the Government of the Czech Republic that individual challenges of the Modernization Fund be directed to the maximum to support smaller installations in electricity and to modernization of Czech heating, II. asks the Government of the Czech Republic to set the yield percentage uniformly for all renewable sources at 8,4%; and III. asks the government of the Czech Republic to use market mechanisms as efficiently as possible to support new installations of OZ over 1 megawatt and to approach all types of resources fairly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u160	Thank you, the motion for a resolution has been made. There are three points, we can vote together. No, on individual points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u161	So here's the deal... Sorry. [[The rapporteur responds to the voice from the auditorium.]] Okay. So there's a suggestion that we vote on a single basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u162	Yes, so please, first we will vote that point first, the request is that it be reread. Then please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u163	So the first accompanying resolution is that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to direct individual calls of the Modernisation Fund to the maximum to support smaller installations in electricity and to modernize Czech heating"
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u164	Yes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 211, 177 Members signed in for 73, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u165	The second motion for a resolution is that "it asks the Government of the Czech Republic to set the yield percentage uniformly for all renewable sources, at 8.4 %'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u166	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 212, 177 Members signed in for 20, versus 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u167	And there is the last motion for a resolution: 'asks the government of the Czech Republic to make the most effective use of market mechanisms to support new installations of OZ over 1 megawatt power and approach all types of resources fairly'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-002-340.u168	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 213, registered in 176 Members, for 35, against no one. The motion was not accepted. That was all the accompanying resolutions. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. Now, let's look at point 339. It's about
