ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-16-ps2017-111-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 111th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'm gonna ask you to take your seats, sign up with your I.D. cards. I checked you all out, please, for a new registration. (The President accidentally launched the vote number 215.) If necessary, tell me the replacement cards you are using. Mr Hoppe has a replacement card number 15. I hereby apologize for their absence from meetings asked by the following Members: Radek Vondráček for reasons of foreign travel, Margita Balaštíková from 12 to 14 hours for Tureček of work, Lukáš Bartoň for Kateřina of health, Ivan Bartoš for Zdeněk of work, Jan Bauer for Richter of work, Stanislav Blaha for reasons of work, Jiří Bláha for Valenta of work, Irena Pawlas for reasons of health, Alexander Černý for Vyzula of work, Monika Červíčková from 9.30 to 12 hours for Stanjura of work, for Klaus Václav František Elfmark for Vondrák of work, Kamal Farhan for Ivo of work, Petr Fiala for Venhoda of work, Stanislav Fridrich for Vlastimil of work, Válek Golasowská for reasons of work, Miroslav Grebeníčeková for Levová of work, for 14 hours for reasons of work for Martinů of work, for Pávek of work, Tomáš Hanzel for Petr of work, until 10 hours of Marian Jurečka for reasons of work, and within 10 hours for Valachová of health Jaroslav of work, Adam Kalous From members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Klára Dostálová for work reasons, Jakub Kulhánek for work reasons, Lubomír Metnar for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Miroslav Toman for work reasons and for health reasons Lubomír Zaorálek. That was an apology. I would still like to wish myself happy birthday to Jiří Mašek and Josef Bělico, who are celebrating their birthday. [[Applause]] And before we proceed to discuss today's first point, even before I give room for proposals to amend the agenda, I will ask Martin Kolovratník to give us the results of the elections that took place on Wednesday, 14 July before the end of the meeting day. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-16-ps2017-111-06-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. I wish you good morning and I will announce the results of the two elections we conducted on Wednesday night. The first one was
