ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u1	4. Government bill of construction / House print 1008/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Today, we are once again meeting on the proposal for a construction law and related amendment law. The aim of today's meeting is to discuss proposals for both laws approved by the Government on 24 August and discussed at the first reading at the 64th meeting on 5 November. As far as committee meetings are concerned, the Chamber of Deputies has designated its economic committee by the Guarantee Committee on the bill of construction. Furthermore, the law was ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Economic Committee dealt with the material at its meeting on 18 November, 6 January and 3 February. The Constitutional Committee dealt with the material on 9 December and 3 February. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development dealt with the material on 10 December and 4 February. A total of six amendments were tabled, three of which are complex amendments. The first comprehensive amendment is the proposal that arose at the initiative of the Economic Committee of Members of Mr Kolovratník, Mrs Kořanová, Mr Kalous, Mr Luzar, Mr Dolínek, Mr Fridrich and Mr Jelínek. The preparation of this proposal was intensively consulted with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry continues to be inclined to accept the amendments tabled by the Government's proposal for a new construction law. In this comprehensive amendment, let me put it further as a proposal by Mr Kolovratník and others for simplicity, some specific parliamentary topics are already being incorporated, for example, from Mr Dolínek or from Mr Fridrich. The second comprehensive amendment is the proposal of a group of Members, Mr Kupka, Mr Bartoš, Mr Výborný, Mrs Kovářová and Mr Feri, and I will also put it as Mr Kupka's proposal for simplification. The third was Mr Radim Fiala's comprehensive proposal. In fact, this is an amendment to Mr Kolovratník's comprehensive amendment. Some acceptable adjustments were taken into his complex proposal from Mr Fiala's proposal and, therefore, this comprehensive amendment was not discussed. Let me compare the comprehensive amendments made by Mr Kolovratník and others and Mr Kupka to the government proposal for your idea. As regards the institutional reform of the building administration, in agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Ministry of the Interior at the level of the Prime Minister, an adjustment was made in January 2020 in the sense that the construction authorities would remain in a delegated capacity in the municipalities. They will be left mainly to municipalities with extended scope and to some other municipalities that will meet the legally defined criteria. These construction offices will decide on constructions of local importance. The regional state construction administration will decide on the construction of above-local importance in the state. The government's proposal for a new construction law therefore envisages the state administration from the level of the regions, i.e. the regions, above. Within the framework of the Government's bill, compliance with the time limits by the State is. Mr Kolovratník's proposal and others, on the other hand, propose a unified system of state building administration at all levels, including the first instance building offices. The biggest difference compared to the government's design of the construction law is the transfer of the first-instance agenda to the regional state construction authorities, within the framework of the state construction administration, which will result, for example, in the removal of systemic bias. The system proposed in this proposal is inspired by a system of financial management and thus the proposed system will be three-parted. It will be composed of the highest building office as the central administrative office in matters of territorial planning, construction order and expropriation, a specialised and appellate building office, which will act as an appeal authority for the decision of the Regional State Building Office, and will decide at first instance on matters reserved for constructions, and the lowest element of this system will be the regional state construction offices. These will be decided in the first instance through their territorial workplaces. The regional state construction authorities will be integrated by the authorities concerned, whose remit will be taken over by the state construction administration. The territorial workplaces will be set out in the decree of the Supreme Building Office. This comprehensive amendment also ensures compliance with deadlines. Mr Kupka's proposal and others, on the other hand, proposes maintaining the existing structure of the construction offices at municipal and regional level and maintaining the performance of their delegated activities. According to this proposal, the roles of the first-stage construction offices are to be held by the municipal authorities of the municipalities with extended scope and selected municipalities of the first and second types designated by the decree. The second-degree Board of Appeal will be the existing Regional Authority. These authorities are to have the authorisation of all buildings and projects with the exception of those reserved for them. Reserved buildings such as motorways, airports, power plants, dams and others are to be authorised by a specialized construction office in accordance with the government's first-degree proposal. The appeal authority shall be the highest building authority as the central authority of the state administration. At the same time, the Supreme Building Office will be the superior body of regional authorities in the area of building authorisation and planning. In this model, by not transferring civil servants, it will be very difficult to ensure compliance with deadlines. In the area of land-use planning, the Government's proposal assumes that the approval of land-use planning documents at regional and municipal level remains in line with the substantive intention in their separate scope, the acquisition of all land-use planning instruments remains carried over. [[15.40 hours]] Mr Kolovratník's proposal and others maintain the current model of exercise in the area of territorial planning, with the aim of the proposal to strengthen the position of local authorities in the territorial planning processes, by supplementing, for example, the territorial studies, the acquisition of which is imposed by a territorial plan as a condition for decision-making in the territory, shall be discussed by the recipient in the municipal council, or by supplementing the possibility for the authorising authority to combine joint negotiations and public consultation in the event of a change in the planning documentation. Mr Kupka's proposal in the area of spatial planning represents fundamental changes compared to the government approved draft building law, but also to Mr Kolovratník's amendments. It states that the regional council and the municipalities and designated representatives will be able to impose binding guidelines on the contractor of the planning documentation, but this is contrary to labour legislation and the adjustment of responsibility for the performance of the state administration and self-government. The proposal introduces the authority of the municipal and regional authority to delegate, at the request of the council of the municipality or region, the responsibility of the customer to the person established by the municipality or region of the territorial planning activity, the so-called urban and regional urban planner. However, the law does not address how or who will be responsible for the damage to the territorial planning of the municipality established by the legal person. This proposal runs counter to the Ministry of the Interior and the Supreme Administrative Court. Smaller municipalities have the option or have the power to take up a zoning plan by means of experts engaged in land planning activities, so-called authorised representatives, under significantly more flexible conditions. It will not be necessary to authorise the Regional Authority, but only a notification with a possibility of control, which is practically today's state of affairs, whose shortcomings seek to correct the government's design of the construction law. Furthermore, the proposal introduces the possibility of making changes to the zoning plan by means of an accelerated procedure with shorter deadlines. The shortened procedure should be possible in the case of the definition of areas for public utility buildings and the change of the existing area in the built-up area to the area intended for housing. In the area of the construction order, the government proposal proposes a new building law, a comprehensive procedural regulation for the approval of buildings. The result of the proposed amendments is one procedure conducted by one authority in which the authorities concerned will be integrated as far as possible. The construction permit process has fixed deadlines. For all non-integrated authorities concerned, the fiction of consent will apply, which will take place after the expiry of the period for the issue of an opinion or binding opinion. The modifications made in Mr Kolovratník's proposal and others in the section on the construction order follow up on the construction of a clean state building administration, which could lead to some simplifications of the process compared to the hybrid model. Within the framework of the modifications proposed by Mr Kupka and others, the construction office is to provide all the observations and binding opinions of the public transport and technical infrastructure owners concerned, which also allows a government proposal, as well as a proposal by Mr Kolovratník and others. However, Mr Kupka's proposal also proposes an extension of the time limits for the process, such as a new design of the institutions concerned' access to the proceedings, namely through coordination negotiations which may also be repeated, but also without repetition, represent an extension of the construction permit process by 45 to 85 days. In the process, Mr Kupka's proposal brings back the government's proposal and the maintenance of today's environmental impact assessment process, introducing the unequal position of the parties to the proceedings by giving a significant advantage to the municipality as a party to the proceedings, for example, to the owner of the land, which then poses a significant risk to challenge the decisions of the construction authorities. In the field of building law, the government proposal envisages, in accordance with the approved substantive intention, a comprehensive adjustment of the construction requirement in one legislation, but taking into account the specific territorial requirements of large settlements. The municipalities have the possibility to apply their ideas about construction in the territory of the municipality within the framework of spatial planning. The technical requirements for constructions, starting with the requirements for mechanical resistance and stability of buildings or fire safety of buildings and requirements for the sustainable use of natural resources as such, which would have to comply with the normal maintenance and performance of normally foreseeable effects throughout the proposed lifetime of the construction, should be adapted uniformly within the territory of the Czech Republic, in particular because of the link to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products. Both Mr Kolovratník's proposal and Mr Kupka's proposal introduce for the City of Prague, the Statutory City of Brno and the Statutory City of Ostrava the power to issue implementing regulations governing, by way of derogation, certain requirements for construction, the so-called urban building regulations. The Ministry understands the requirements of large cities and needs to take account of the other residences of the Czech Republic, but it is necessary to draw attention to the risk of possible sanctions for the Czech Republic in failing to comply with the mandatory transposition of the EU directive into the technical regulation of the Czech Republic, i.e. the urban construction regulation. [[is]] At the same time, the proposal constitutes a significant financial impact on the budgets of municipalities, as they will be subject to the obligation to ensure public access to the Czech technical standards under the legislation. [[Nesroz.]] So let me briefly mention how the proposals have been discussed on the committee proposal. Mr Kolovratník's proposal was recommended for discussion and approval by the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting of the Economic Committee on 3 February. The Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development did not discuss Mr Kolovratník's proposal because the proposal was not tabled in these committees. The Ministry of Regional Development supports Mr Kolovratník's proposal. With regard to Mr Kupka's comprehensive amendment, as the Economic Committee recommended for discussion and approval the comprehensive amendment made by Mr Kolovratník and others, Mr Kupka's proposal was unvoted on the Economic Committee. The Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development did not approve this amendment by Mr Kupka. As regards the other amendments, Mr Jurečka's proposal to the Economic Committee, specifying the provisions on compensation for change in the territory, and Mr Dolínek's proposal for the construction of charging points for electric cars for larger buildings, was adopted. The Ministry of Regional Development has consulted a comprehensive amendment with selected ministries, which are most affected by the proposed amendments. For all the resorts, Mr Kolovratník's proposal seems to be acceptable, Mr Kupka's proposal seems to be much more problematic for the resorts and rejected them either as a whole or as a majority. Finally, I would like to thank you again to all of you who have contributed in any way to the preparation of the new law and the amendments. I very much appreciate your time and effort devoted to each proposal, although for objective reasons I consider not all proposals or parts suitable for approval. So much for the introduction and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u3	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Committee resolutions were delivered as House prints 1008/1 to 5 and 7. A minority of the Members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development submitted an opposition report, which has been delivered to you as House Press 1008/6. At the same time, a minority of the members of the Economic Committee submitted an opposition report, which has been delivered to you as House Press 1008/8. At the same time, a minority of Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee submitted an opposition report, which has been delivered to you as House Press 1008/9. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. And I'll read one more apology, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes, today from 15.30 to the end of the day on account of urgent work issues. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, good afternoon. Well, the Minister has already said everything in detail, and so has Mr President, so whatever I say, I'm almost going to repeat myself, and Mr Okamura, it could be almost as fast as the previous point you were driving. But it's not gonna be that way, I don't want to downplay it, it's obviously a serious matter, and I'm assuming that now, with colleagues both from the coalition and from the opposition, we're gonna have a serious substantive debate on this proposal. As rapporteur, very briefly, but I must repeat what you said about the discussion in the guaranteeing economic committee, which was held on 3 February when a period of 100 days was set for committee discussions, was valid until 13 February, so all three committees complied with that deadline. [[15.50 hours]] Several individual amendments have been tabled to the Economic Committee, including the complex one already mentioned. So-called complex proposals were three. a group from Mr Kupka, a group represented by me and then by the Chairman of the Economic Committee Radim Fiala. The Economic Committee has taken a decision - or has reflected its conclusion in the resolution you have in the system under number 1008/7, published on 12 February. Finally, colleagues from the Economic Committee have prepared and presented themselves with the opposing report of the minority of Members. It was published on February 15th, and it's in the system under number 1008/8. Other committees were, as has been said, the IDA and the Public Administration Committee. Both recommended in thousands of 1008/4 and 1008/5 discuss the government amendment, the original government press. The Committee on Public Administration is still prepared with the opposing report of the minority of Members. Mr President, I will propose three votes or three procedural steps. Firstly, I would like to ask if we agree to merge the debate on the 1008 and 1009 press together, because they are really connected, and even on the Economic Committee in that 1009 amendment, and it will still be, already in the system, a number of individual amendments that change the material of both the construction law and the related ones. Please let this vote right after my speech - the merger of the debate to press 1008 and 1009 together. Then on to what mandate I am equipped with from the Economic Committee. We voted on the Economic Committee in this resolution 1008/7, which contains not only a comprehensive amendment, but also an authorisation for me, to recommend to the rapporteurs, or to propose to the House a further discussion of this law, as amended by the amendments adopted above. I am now quoting item III of the resolution. Perhaps, in the interest of security, I will quickly read the whole point III: "It empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the House meeting on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee and recommends further consideration of it as amended by the amendments adopted.' So my other two procedural proposals will first be for the House to further discuss this material in the wording of the adopted amendment to the Economic Committee. So here, working for the next debate, I will correct the Minister in a good way: it will no longer be Mr Kolovratník's amendment, but the amendment of the Economic Committee. Otherwise, for your information and for the screen record: am I based on the already tried or experienced practice of the Chamber of Deputies, which my colleagues have implemented - I am looking at Marek Výborný - in the autumn of last year in the proceedings on the order of justice, on the order of execution - am I correct, colleague? So I'd like to propose a procedure in the same way. This means one vote, my proposal as rapporteur for the guarantee committee on how to continue to work over the material or take 1008/7, first of all. Secondly, so that we can write our other amendments on it, set it up, propose a break in the second reading, and it will be about our discussion for how long. I've counted it at this point, and I'd like to propose that we interrupt second reading by Tuesday, March 23rd. It would be three weeks, today by 20 days, so that we can open the second reading here at the House in a variable week at the end of March. I think that three weeks could be enough time for us to redo the amendments and put them on the new press. For you, Mr President, there is still a request that we have also agreed with our opponents, so that we do not interrupt the debate in detail and there was a chance to return to the general one correctly for both parties. So please allow the two of my proposals on interruptions and negotiations on the press of the Economic Committee to vote in a procedural manner at the end of the general debate - today, but before the end of the debate, so that we can return to the general debate after the interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u5	I've got it all marked up, just interrupting second reading by Tuesday 20. 3. Yeah, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u6	So, but at this point, I ask first of all for a vote on the merger of the debate on press 1008 and 1009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u7	Yeah. And on your proposal to act on the basis of the economic committee's skeleton, we would probably vote that when the debate merges, and at the end of the general, that is clear. So now we will vote on the proposal for a merged debate. I'm gonna sing. [[Members are coming.]] You don't have to run, I'll wait, okay? I'm watching it all run, so good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u8	Mr President, we should only vote on the merger of the debate after all the opening words I remember.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u9	I don't think it matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u10	I'm not quite sure about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u11	It's not some rule that it has to be po. No, no, no, we can do that anytime, we can do that now, it's a procedural proposal. Mr. Cernohorsky, thank you for being active, but I do have it really... [[Laughs in the hall.]] So we are going to vote on the proposal from the rapporteur of the economic committee here, Martin Kolovratník, to merge the debate on the 1008 and 1009 press. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 69, 95 Members registered, for 83, against 1. The motion was accepted. Now we're gonna get to the news team in peace and then we're gonna open up the second press. And we're gonna interrupt the other one and then we're gonna have a joint debate. So now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development take the floor of Mr Ivan Bartoš, but it may also be anyone else, because we are at second reading and have been informed of the committee's discussion, justifying any amendments. This is Mr Ondřej Profant on behalf. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u12	Good afternoon. I must apologize to my colleague Bartoš, who is not present today. I will introduce you to resolution 1008/5 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The resolution reads: "The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 47th meeting after the explanation of the draft by Minister Klára Dostálová and following the report by Mr Ivan Bartoš and following the debate adopted a resolution which, firstly, recommends: The 1008 Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the text presented, second, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to introduce the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now doing. Thirdly, it instructs the President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." And, as has already been said, we also have an opposition report from the minority of the committee, which will be presented to you later by Mr Martin Kupka, who will be found under the House press number 1008/6. And that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u13	I now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Dominik Feri, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Anyone here for the Constitutional and Legal Committee? Chairman of the Marek Benda Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u14	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feri is excused at the moment. It was quite simple with us. At its 79th meeting on 3 February 2021, the Constitutional Legal Committee discussed the bill, recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill. He didn't accept any changes to him. He ordered the chairman of the committee to submit the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and authorised the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution. No amendment has been tabled with us, which means none has been discussed or accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u15	Furthermore, I ask that an authorised representative of the minority of Members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Martin Kupka, take the floor. And Mr Ondřej Polanský will be prepared for the Economic Committee. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have used a rather unusual instrument of the so-called opposition report of the minority of Members, because we consider it very important for the debate to be heard, and very loudly, important opinions, important warnings on what both the government proposal and any proposal from the group of Members led by Mr Kolovratník mean for the exercise of building law in the Czech Republic. The opposition report of the minority of members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development states firstly that the Government's bill interferes inappropriately with the competence of the regions, cities and municipalities and fundamentally undermines the current mixed model of public administration, secondly, in the case of the adoption of the proposal, there is a risk of additional unnecessary costs for the emergence of new offices and integration, which is not responsible in the current economic situation, and thirdly, the said government proposal may jeopardise construction in the Czech Republic and, if it is adopted, there is a risk that institutional changes will cause collapse in construction, and fourthly, for the above reasons, the government proposal is not the right way for construction in the Czech Republic. For the same reasons, it recommends the adoption of a comprehensive amendment by Members of Bartoš, the Výborný, Mrs Kovářová, Members of Feri and Kupka, who is attached to this opposition report, stating that the resolution further formally identifies me as the rapporteur of the opposition report and empowers me to introduce you to this opposition report. I would like to add at least a basic brief interpretation to this resolution, with the fact that in the general debate, there will be room to bring both our proposal and to present counter-arguments to both the government concept and the concept, which is also a bit of a government concept, but is signed by Mr Kolovratník. However, what sounds as a fundamental reservation is that, whether the regulation of the government or the regulation of Members around Mr Kolovratník brings a really fundamental change in the performance of the public administration in the Czech Republic, it is crucial that nothing more important has happened in the last 20 years. But it is happening without discussing whether it is necessary, whether the costs are a balanced effect, that is, that taxpayers' money will really bounce back and use it to change the way construction works are discussed in the Czech Republic, the negotiations have significantly accelerated, improved and led to construction in the Czech Republic. I think we all agree here that building activity is supposed to be one of the ways to ensure the development of an economy in the coming time, which will undoubtedly be damaged by the current pandemic of coronavirus. And when, contrary to development, there is a threat to the performance of construction activity, where instead of seeking a way to cheapen bureaucracy and lessen government administration, it proposes expensive bureaucratic processes, it is appropriate to reject such proposals as unverified and problematic experiments. This is the subject of both our proposal and this resolution - to prevent unnecessary risks, to prevent funds being wasted unnecessarily on something that will not work, to something that, in the end, may still pose a significant threat to us. Of course there will be room to present concrete arguments, but at the end of the opening short block, I will mention one crucial thing. The key partners for the government of the Czech Republic are municipalities, cities and regions in the Czech Republic. Both the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the relevant Commission of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic have clearly expressed their negative opinion on the proposal, which means the separation of the state administration in the section of construction law, i.e. the proposal for a comprehensive amendment by Mr Kolovratník and others, as well as the concept of government. They point out that the disruption of the current merged public administration model can really mean a major complication in the fact that construction is allowed at all. And this is a very significant risk that we need to assess. Who else should enter into the debate about the construction law other than the municipalities, towns and regions, not only as important investors, but, of course, as those who are key partners in that territory, decide what can be built, how it can be built, and determine the basic conditions for building in the territory. At the moment when these key partners are clearly critical and say that they do not want this, that this even means a serious threat, the Chamber of Deputies should hear it. That is why we regard this resolution, our opposing report, as an important voice, which, please see as an effort to really make a change that will be qualitatively better, which will really simplify and speed up the building process. We are aware that this is important for the further development of the economy, but we are also aware that it is important for improving the quality of life. That is, how it is built, how well it is built, of course, has a significant impact on life in society, the lives of people who create values in the Czech Republic. As a result, poor building law goes not only against the economic development of the country, but also against improving the quality of people's lives. That is why the following debate on the construction law is really one of the important debates, one of the important topics of this entire parliamentary term, and I firmly hope that this debate - thank you for the initial kick-off of the Minister - will be factual and that you will have the opportunity to judge all the substantive arguments, everything that points out for the government proposal, everything that points out against the government proposal, as well as what it points out for the other two proposals as well. Please pay due attention to the debate, because if what has happened repeatedly in history happens, and under one of the major changes is signed by the Ministry led by the ANO movement, a change which, while on the one hand, should have brought significant simplification, acceleration of processes to the Czech Republic, but proved to the contrary, from all tables it is clear that this amendment to the construction law has resulted in a significant extension of construction deadlines, it is a dangerous precedent, and at the same time we draw attention to the fact that another unverified and problematic experiment can cost even more money and the result will be equally problematic. Pay maximum attention to this material debate. We are prepared not only for the debate, but also for the further work on the law to devote time to the Czech Republic's quality standard, not the standard that will hurt us all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u17	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Let's continue. So I ask now that an authorised representative of a minority of Members of the Economic Committee, Mr Ondřej Polanský, should take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u18	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. An analogically, what happened on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, that is, the adoption of the opposing report by the group of Members, as my previous speaker has already announced, is precisely what the group of Members has decided to submit to the Committee on Economic Affairs. At the same time, she instructed me to present this opposing report to the House plenary, which I am now doing. Parliamentary Press 1008: "After hearing the introductory words of the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová, Mr Martin Kolovratník's report and after the general and detailed debate below signed by a minority of the members of the Economic Committee, Klára Dostálová considers that: I. the complex amendment by Members Martin Kolovratník, Barbora Kořanová, Adam Kalous, Leo Luzar, Petr Dolínek, Stanislav Fridrich and Pavel Jelínek interferes inappropriately with the powers of the regions, cities and municipalities and fundamentally undermines the current mixed model of public administration; II. further unnecessary costs for the creation of new offices and integration are at risk in the event of the adoption of the said proposal, which is not responsible in the current economic situation; III. the proposed amendment may jeopardise construction in the Czech Republic and, if it is adopted, there is a risk that institutional changes will cause collapse in construction for up to two years; IV. for the reasons mentioned above, the comprehensive amendment by Members Martin Kolovratník, Barbora Kořanová, Adam Kalous, Leo Luzar, Petr Dolínek, Stanislav Fridrich and Pavel Jelínek is not the right path for construction in the Czech Republic; For the same reasons, instead of this comprehensive amendment, it recommends adopting a comprehensive amendment by Members Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš, Marek Výborný, Věra Kovářová and Dominik Feri, annexed to this opposition report; V. designates the rapporteur for the opposition reports of Mr Ondřej Polanský; VI. empower the rapporteur of the minority of Members to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this opposition report. Signed by Members Ondřej Polanský, Martin Jiránek, Vojtěch Munzar, Helena Langšádlová, Marian Jurečka, Petr Pávek, Ivan Adamec." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u19	Thank you, too. And now I will ask that the Member appointed to take the floor as a representative of a minority of Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Marek Výborný. And that would solve the opening words on this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe I'll wait until the Secretary of State gets a report from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. [[The Minister is discussing with Mr Faltynek at the rapporteur's table.]] It's okay, we'll wait. I'm waiting for the Secretary of State not to be disturbed. This is what I am talking about, Mr President, through the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u22	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have already addressed you this way, so once again, allow me to introduce you and the honourable House to the very extraordinary institute of the opposition report of the minority of Members. It is a procedure that is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and indeed - and this has already been said here by colleague Martin Kupka as a representative of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - it is merely a testimony that what we are discussing is a very fundamental and important matter, perhaps one of the most important in this parliamentary term. And here I must certainly give the Minister and the rapporteur the truth that the objective we are pursuing is to accelerate the construction process in the Czech Republic, the modern, fast, transparent building regulations without unnecessary spending public finances, that is the goal of all of us, both the Ministry of Local Development and our Members. That we really do not take this matter lightly, that this is a matter that directly affects each of the citizens of the Czech Republic, which decides to build a small garden house or, in the case of municipalities and cities, to build public infrastructure, or to touch the state when it builds large infrastructure structures or any private, private society. It is simply a matter that directly affects each of us, and we all want to get out of those tragic numbers when it comes to the length of the construction process in the Czech Republic, where we are today. Because we are actually taking this seriously and we have followed very closely the whole process for several years when the amendments to the construction regulations are being prepared, so this has led us to react to the process by preparing a comprehensive amendment with a group of members from opposition parties - colleagues from ODS, Pirate Party, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN - which is presented here as a comprehensive amendment by Mr Martin Kupka, but below it are the names of Ivan Bartoš, myself - Marek Výborný, Věra Kovářová and Dominik Feri. In view of the debates and the process that has actually been shown by the petitioners, the government, or the Ministry of Regional Development, as somewhat atypical in the situation where there was repeated discussions within the Government's legislative board, where the government subsequently approved some form of House press 1008, and subsequently the Minister made a public declaration on the comprehensive amendment of Mr Kolovratník and other Members, which essentially arose within the framework of consensus with the Ministry for Local Development, we were forced to respond to this fundamental matter by a similar instrument, and that is a comprehensive amendment, under which I also signed personally and which we made available to Members in the various committees, both in the guarantee economic and in the other two committees, where this House press was ordered, i.e. in the Committee on Constitutional Law and in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am here now, at the moment, as a representative of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, where I have been instructed by the resolution to present to you, as rapporteur for the opposition report, the discussion of this comprehensive amendment by my colleague Kupka and others on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. So let me introduce you to the Opponent Report of the 79th meeting, which took place on 3 February 2021, to the Government's draft Building Act, House Press 1008: "After the opening words of the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, Mr Dominik Feri's intelligence report, and after the debate of the below-signed minority of Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, it considers that: 1. the comprehensive amendment by Members of Kolovratník, Kořánová, Kalous, Luzar, Dolínek, Fridrich and Jelínek interferes inappropriately with the powers of the regions, cities and municipalities and fundamentally undermines the current mixed model of public administration; 2. in the case of adoption of the said proposal, there is further unnecessary costs for the creation of new offices and integration, which is unaccountable in the current economic situation; 3. the proposed amendment may jeopardise construction in the Czech Republic and, if it is adopted, there is a risk that institutional changes will cause collapse in construction for up to two years; 4. For the reasons mentioned above, it is not the right way for construction in the Czech Republic and for the same reasons it recommends that instead of this comprehensive amendment, it be adopted by Members of Kupka, Bartoš, Výborný, Kovářová and Feri, who are Jelínek to this Opponent Report and with whom you can get acquainted within the framework of documents under the number of the House of Press 1008." The Constitutional Committee has designated the rapporteur for Mr Marek Výborný's opponential report and has authorised me to present this opposing report to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have now done. Members of Marek Výborný, Marek Benda, Pavel Blažek, Dominik Feri, Jakub Michálek, František Navrkal and Jan Farský are signed under the opposition report of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. So much opposition report by a minority of Members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which is a testimony that neither the Constitutional and Legal Committee takes the matter lightly. From the position of this committee, let me remind you, in particular, of what I will then discuss in the general debate, and unfortunately, thanks to my colleague Kolovratník's amendment, it is a complete destruction of a mixed model of public administration, something for which there can certainly be a legitimate right, that can of course be proposed by anyone, but what I personally find very annoying is that it is happening without a complete debate and discussion. These original proposals, which were part of - if I am not mistaken, the Minister - the intention in question at the very beginning of the discussion of construction laws, led to a completely logical rejection by representatives of municipalities and towns, whether the Union of Towns and Communities or the Association of Local Authorities, as well as the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic clearly rejected it. In such a destructive way to eliminate the mixed model of public administration, something that is proven in the Czech Republic for decades or centuries, because we can look for those roots in the 19th century public administration model, it seems very unreasonable, very unreasonable, and it can have drastic consequences, including even in the ability to implement construction proceedings in the next few years in the Czech Republic. It will, of course, have financial implications, and it will not be small. [[16.20 hours]] Representatives of the regions, the captains - by the way, supported by the comprehensive amendment representing the opposition reports here, expressed almost all of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, and what is also important, they refer to the fact that they are not prepared to do so, that they were not consulted by both the petitioners of the amendment. I do not know if Mr Kolovratník here is able to present the resolution of the Pardubice Region that he would perhaps support his amendment. I think the position is exactly the opposite. If I am well aware of various forums and debates of the position of the captains, they are afraid that this has not been discussed with them, they do not have sufficient capacity and so on and so on and so on. I could really keep going. So this is one of the things that I'm sure even from the position of the constitutionally-legal committee seems like a very unfortunate and very dangerous experiment. I am also prepared in the general debate to point out further elements and benefits of the comprehensive amendment under which I am signed and which we consider to be the reasonable and correct consensus. Finally, let me remind you that perhaps a little naive, but I would expect from the petitioner, the government, by the Ministry of Regional Development, a certain continuity in the fact that when the government has discussed something, it is indeed behind it and will not accept a complete revision of the original proposal here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which - and I think this is very important - will be denied by the Ministry of Regional Development even by those agreements that have been concluded, for example, at the level of municipalities and cities. I think it's pointless to operate here on a possible deal with some of the biggest cities. It is so that the original agreement which led to the government press, which finally discussed the constitutional-legal committee - because the constitutional-legal committee did not receive the comprehensive amendment tabled by Mr Kolovratník, or we discussed the original government press, which was recommended by the constitutional-legal committee to be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies. So we should also include this in the vote here in the second reading. It is therefore good to point out here that there is no consensus on the outcome that comes from the Economic Committee with representatives of self-government, both at regional and local level and municipal level. Finally, Mr Vice-President, let me ask for a procedural vote. I have to sort of define myself against what has been proposed here. By bringing a new proposal - a comprehensive amendment from the Economic Committee - for all of us as we are here, this means that, at the moment when the second reading is interrupted as indicated here, we are faced with a situation that any amendments must be revised to the wording of the proposal that will be adopted by the House as one against which the amendments will be loaded and under which second and third reading will continue to take place. So translated, according to the Rules of Procedure, we are actually in the situation of first reading, where the deadline between first and second reading is 60 days. This is the time limit that is given there so that Members can get to know the draft very carefully, which was discussed at first reading and moved to committee, and can prepare amendments. Mr. Colleague, it's § 91 para. 1. Yeah, the deadline's pretty clear, but I think we all know that. That's why I'm convinced that if I'm going to be here alone, then we should work at least with that 30-day deadline. When you mentioned the House Press 7155 - this is the document concerning the House Press 545 of the Enforcement Order and the OSŘ - it was interrupted there, for at least 30 days the deadline reached. So I am convinced that in order to comply with the diction of the Rules of Procedure, today the second reading must be suspended for at least 30 days. This means: I am making a proposal for an interruption until 31 March 2021 so that there is room for all Members to prepare amendments. So if I presume - if, of course, there is a vote - that one of the complex amendments - this may be the amendment of my colleague Kupka and us, the group of opposition Members, as well as the amendment of Mr Kolovratník - then we would interrupt negotiations at second reading by 31 March. If none of these comprehensive amendments were approved in this way, so that we would be working with this government draft by Minister Dostálová, then, of course, the legislative process can continue as it is set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-005-004.u23	Thank you. I see an application here with Mr Luzar's factual remark, but we are not yet in the debate and we will not be for some time, so unfortunately. I would also like to introduce the House with an apology of the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček from the afternoon meeting of the House for work reasons. Finally, I note that we have reached the end of the opening speeches under this point, so I cannot now open the debate that we have merged, but I have to open the next point, which is point number 5. This is about
