ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 104th meeting, and I welcome you all here. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. If you are not interested in today's meetings, these Members asked for Sommerová - working Věra - Ivo Procházková, Petr Bendl - Robert Krutáková, Jan Řehounek - Karel Tureček, Jiří Bláha - family reasons, Pavel Blažek - Krejza reasons, František Vácha - Zuzana reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák - working Olga, Zbyněk Fiala - working grounds, Vymazal Puntová - Patrik Nacher, Stanislav Fridrich - Helena Válková, Jan Bartošek from 12 to 19 hours - working reasons, Marian Jurečka - Ivo Veselý, Pavla Golasowská - Karel Schwarzenberg, Václav Hanzel - Radek Zlesák, Jaroslav Holík from 11 to 13 hours - Vít Vích, Tereza Hyťhová - working grounds, Jan Jakob from 12 to 19 hours - Majerová Zahradníková, Barbora Bartoš - working grounds, Staněk Juříček - Kasal Vondrák, David Kasačková I just got a few more apologies. Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová apologizes for working reasons, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologises between 9.00 and 11.00 for health reasons. They apologize from the members of the government: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Marie Benešová until 14.30 - working reasons, Klára Dostálová - working reasons, Jan Hamáček within 11 hours - working reasons, Karel Havlíček - working reasons, Jakub Kulhánek within 13 hours - working reasons, Jana Maláčová apologizes for morning negotiations for work reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons, Miroslav Toman from 11 o'clock - working reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek until 11 o'clock - working reasons. And Minister Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 9.00 to 10.30 for reasons of work, and Minister Richard Brabec apologizes for the entire working day. So we did all the apologies. And today is 17. It is Mrs Jana Levová's 6th and her birthday. So, in this chamber environment, happy long-distance. [[Let's hear it.]] Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 539, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. So we're going to go to a point.
