ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u1	513. Government information on the vaccination strategy We launched this item on 19 January 2021 at the 79th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and the general debate was interrupted. I would like to ask the Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger, to take the position at the rapporteur's desk for the government, and I would remind you that the rapporteur has not yet been designated. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate, in which I have no Members, but I will give the floor to Minister Petr Arenberger to inform us of the current situation of the development of the vaccination strategy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Dear Members, dear Members, Mr President, let me inform you about the course of vaccination in the Czech Republic. Several data for the introduction. Until yesterday, 2,212 000 were delivered to the Czech Republic, namely 2,212 350 doses. Of which Pfizer was 1 749 150, Modern was 310 800, AstraZeneca 352 400. By last night, 2,209,859 doses were vaccinated. More will tell us the percentage, where in any case Pfizer leads, which is about three times higher than the sum of Moderns and AstraZenecy combined. Thus, the number of doses administered continues to increase, while also increasing the capacity of vaccination centres. At the end of last week, we got over 65,000 administered doses a day. On the weekend afterwards, which is perfectly natural, is a lower vaccination, but it was still 30,000 doses per day, which corresponds to the working day at the beginning of March. One dose was given to 1,629 117 of our citizens, and over the past few weeks, the number of citizens with completed vaccinations has also increased by half a million. That means those who received both doses, that means there were 742,653 people. This means that from priority groups, i.e. persons over 80 years of age, the first dose was 68.6 % completely from the whole group. The completed vaccination already has 50 percent of the 80+ group. 52 per cent of the vaccine received the first dose in the group of 70 to 79 years and the completed vaccination has 20 per cent of the subjects in this group. Furthermore, persons working in bed care facilities and medical emergency services: there was an average vaccination of 70 percent of these people. Employees in education, where vaccination varies according to individual regions, but also this group is relatively well inoculated. Behind the so-called barrier, or those waiting for vaccination, it's only 40,000 people left. In view of the rate of vaccination, registration of other priority groups has started since mid-March. Critical infrastructure, which was about 9,000 employees, so we also took care of it. There is also gradual vaccination of the police and vaccination of the rest of the critical infrastructure, such as some selected employees, such as nuclear power plants and the like, so it is still in the solution. The registration of a large group of chronic patients was started, where about 100,000 people are registered at this time. This week you have certainly found that the remaining groups of chronic patients that have lower but still high risk of severe COVID-19 disease have been started. It's the third way chronically ill patients get vaccinations. Either it's through a medical facility where they're dispensed, they can get a code there, or they get a code from outpatient specialists, or they get a code from a medical facility directly, if he has a vaccination center, he'll inoculate them. Of course, it is possible to be vaccinated directly by a practical physician. Today another group has started, and we register the age group 65+, i.e. 65 to 69 years old, but actually the group of our fellow citizens over 65 is still open to all. At this point more than 100,000 people are registered in the Reservatic system, who are 65 to 69 years of age. You know that there are over 600,000 people in this group, but we have to assume that a large part - about 150,000, perhaps a little more - has already been included in a group of chronic patients who were entitled to vaccination. So this group is going to be about 400,000 people if everyone wants to inoculate themselves. As is the case with the delivery of vaccines: deliveries are more or less fluid. On Friday we signed another order for 2 million doses from Pfizer/BioNTech. These deliveries don't come in the fourth quarter, but we have to order them now. However, a partial increase will take place since May, when we will receive this vaccine by about 30,000 extra doses per week. Vaccines that are before the approval of the European Medicines Agency - that is CureVac, we expect deliveries there from 1 June, or Novavax, where they are also undergoing the approval process of the European Medicines Agency and we assume if everything is going to go as it should, that we should be with this vaccine, which is partly produced in the Czech Republic, in Bohumil, so it could be here in summer. [[18.10 hours]] Inoculation by practitioners is a subject that we like to open because a physician is closest to his patient. It is an advantage for patients who do not want to commute to large vaccination centers or are immobile patients, elderly patients and so on. 73 per cent of the practitioners' separate practice is involved and registers people for vaccination. The technical issue in this system is the cold chain for our largest shipment of vaccines, which is Pfizer/BioNTech, because it is a bit impractical for practitioners. There are 348,000 people waiting for a vaccination for the practitioners, but if you look at the numbers accurately, then 161,000 people have already received a dose. Practical doctors have a clearly defined role in our vaccination system. You may also have noticed that a shipment of 14,400 doses from Johnson & Johnson was due today. It was postponed by the manufacturer's decision for Europe, resulting in the decision of the US FDA. Originally we thought it would be only a short delay, but apparently colleagues in Europe are waiting for a decision by the European Medicines Agency because there was a situation similar to what we experienced a week ago with a second vaccine that has a similar structure to that of AstraZeneca. And there the decision of the European Medicines Agency to continue was resolved relatively quickly in the middle of teleconferences. In this case, the decision will be delayed for about a day or two, so let's hope we get this contingent next week. It should be stressed from the point of view of distribution that there are no vaccines in the warehouses. Basically, what comes out will always be inoculated within the week. You can't inoculate both for practical reasons and technical reasons at once the entire shipment at the moment it arrives, but mostly the vaccination centers have their orders scheduled for the whole week. Then there are some other documents if you'd like to find out what you're ordering. If anyone's interested, I'll just say it briefly. Because it was discussed whether sufficient numbers of vaccines were ordered to the Czech Republic, for example, in AstraZeneca, we had the maximum possible share in the European Union of about 6.9 million, of which 3 million doses were ordered. These are large numbers compared to the population of the Czech Republic. With Janssen, Johnson & Johnson, the maximum possible share was 4,790,000, and it was ordered a little less than half, which means 2 million. Pfizer/BioNTech, there I think was made a very important and heroic piece, because Pfizer has, as it was found, probably the most optimal profile in terms of the benefit/risk ratio. The possible share that we could order was 4,600,000 and ordered with 4 million doses. Modern, maximum possible share of 1,886,000 and ordered the same quantity that could be ordered. CureVac, we have a million doses ordered there. Then there was the top-up, there were other options at Pfizer/BioNTech, so there are a lot of ordered vaccines, but since they didn't know which ones were coming, the portfolio actually had to decompose in this way, and I think our republic is really happy that it ordered the most of what really goes relatively well. You may have noticed a slight delay in delivery of the substances we expected yesterday, but there was a delay between the manufacturer and importer in Germany, but the manufacturer fixed it very quickly, so the vaccine arrived today. There anyway they're bound to supply it with actually some time range, so they fit into the range, didn't actually happen anything problematic at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u3	I thank you, Minister, for the introductory words on this point, and we are in the debate in which I have signed up for Ms Hana Aulická with the opinion of the KSČM club. Please, Madame, you have the floor, and I ask you to take the role of rapporteur of this point as the first performer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u4	Yes, I got it. Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to thank the Minister for his introduction and his information. Anyway, I think that this point will probably follow us often and that our questions, which we have of course, will be based on the current situation that is simply in this area. I would just like to ask, and the Minister has already indicated a little bit about the current state of the Czech Republic, or perhaps the representatives of the Ministry of Health and Professional Groups, just the vaccines Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca, because only when you open the media world will those first reports immediately look at you in the way that the European Union is giving up these vaccines, that it does not want to inoculate them. This is justified by various backgrounds, and even one article has looked at me today - and I am not saying, of course, that is what Hamáček said, in any case, the presentation in the media world for our citizens can be very problematic and complex - and that is, I think Denmark is giving up AstraZeneca vaccine precisely because of the concerns of the side effects, and Minister Hamáček says: It is great, we will buy them for the Czech Republic. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister of Health in this area how it is. Then I would have a question of when she might have been on the Health Committee, but for other reasons of work I could not participate today, and this is vaccination of armed forces or soldiers, because I received up-to-date information that the soldiers had begun to inoculate themselves 14 days after losing COVID-19 disease. If we have the right information, and I haven't been getting any other information yet, we all know that if you come in for vaccination and you've had covid, 90 days should be a break, and then it would probably be good to figure out the antibody status before you start the vaccination, which, unfortunately, isn't exactly said by the Ministry of Health. Anyway, the 14 days that they've started to prefer armed forces, it literally feels like insanity to me, and the information that the substance has really been administered or is being administered at this time, so of course, all I have so far is information that even the consequences, or what's going on with these people, really isn't very good, and this is please after the first dose. So that might be my next question. And then I wanted to ask - I'm sorry if I misheard - if it is possible to say how we are on vaccination with employees in education. I mean that in general, because we know that since April 12, children have been allowed to return to schools at least in the first year and in kindergarten schools, and we would certainly be interested in how this area is vaccinated or how it continues. [[18.20 hours]] And then I'll take one more question about the tests. I don't know if you're ready for this today because this area really is for vaccination, but I think the testing is for this, too, and I'm asking because we're going to have a point here next week in the area of relaxing, and that's where we're going to have fun and bring the kids back to school together. I would really like to know, because I have the first information from our Ústí Region, especially from the city of Most, when the supply of antigen tests was from one third, as to how to say, were malfunctioning or more or less impossible to use, were incomplete deliveries. And we already know that the amount that has been delivered is not enough for those 14 days, and at the same time we have information that further orders for antigen tests are not yet being made, which means that further testing and continuing to free up children's return to schools are also at risk. I know you don't like to hear it as a release - or at least a precaution that the kids can go back to school. And then I wanted to ask you if you're really thinking about PCR non-invasive tests, which means that they're moving away from antigen tests, and that actually made it possible that even children would have much easier to test themselves. And even the time of testing - for me completely outrageous, twice a week to test children with antigen tests - could be extended once every 10 days, and thus make the situation easier. I don't know, it depends, of course, on the professional groups, what time it would be, but even if it were once a week, it would be a great success, and above all, it would be the non-invasive method. Because whether you like it or not, it's just that I don't call a little kid - I don't call an older kid - that's probably not the problem there, but it's got some problems with little kids - it can, if it takes longer, certainly bring some negative phenomena. Thank you so much for coming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u5	Thank you. The next is the general debate of Mr Marian Jurečka and then Mr Vyzula. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u6	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. I have a few points that are not only about vaccination, but, as I announced here yesterday, I am also interested in some questions on the issue of testing in schools and so on, because we are getting these questions, I assume that not only you but we as MPs have had a lot of recent days. Excuse me, if you're gonna take notes, I'd try to do it structurally. I would go back to the topic of vaccination at the very beginning, because you are a person who has been active in the health sector all his life, so in the autumn of last year, if you can say the information, Minister, on what basis and how it was decided... I'll wait for you to take a picture so you can relax, so the minister can take note of the things I'm saying here. [[Mr Matušovský takes pictures of Mrs Aulický Jírovcová and Minister Arenberger at the news table.]] Thank you. I wanted to ask you why the decision was made during the autumn signing of contracts for ordering and buying vaccines for the Czech Republic, if you had the opportunity to see, revise these contracts personally, and actually say why the maximum quantities that could have been ordered were not ordered, in a situation where many countries that have used the maximum quota have ordered as much as they could, and today as part of the vaccinations when comparing the EU countries are ahead of us and maybe they will be running away in the next weeks and perhaps at least two months. So what do you think about this? In what way did this even happen? I confess when I heard, for example, the arguments of the government agent for the EU, Mrs Hrdinková, who said in media performances that it was also because of the need to waste public funds, so in a situation where we bought respirators here a year ago for almost CZK 800, in a situation where every day of this state costs us between 1 billion and 1.5 billion, I would be interested to know who decided that, in a situation where vaccines cost one dose in the order of tens of crowns. So this is the first issue, or if these contracts are given in full so that they are not blacked out, for example, to us Members and senators, because we have repeatedly asked about this. Thank you so much. Then I want to ask you the question of testing in schools. During the weekend I tried to ask many questions from people in e-mail, on social networks, for example on the Administration of State Material Reserves, in what quality the tests were ordered and so on. And I got a reference that the Ministry of Health supplied the tender's specifications for the tender, so I'd like you to give some explanation. I understand that's your predecessor's question, but you're the minister now, and we're getting those questions, too. This means why better tests have not been bought, because compared to what we can see in the last 10 days, these sets that have been bought for schools have fallen significantly over others. And at the same time, I have to admit, we were also touched at home because my wife is a teacher, so on the weekend, she was cutting paper stands for those stupid plastic tubes. Please nicely, I really don't understand when there's a supplier here who's going to deliver this, why it's not complete, or if sanctions are going to be drawn from it, and so on and so on. But most of all, I and probably most of my parents would be interested in the question why we are not able much more to direct the testing to the field of use of non-invasive methods, use of PCR capacities and use of suppliers from Czech producers. So here I would like to have a clear position on this, or how we can move forward in the next few weeks. I would consider it logical that we will go this way at least in the smallest children, maximum work within PCR, within saliva and within the capacity offered by Czech manufacturers, Czech suppliers. So that's the thing. Then I would have a very specific request. We're getting a lot of stimuli. Yes, kindergartens have opened up in the last years, while exceptions have also been made, but mayors from the municipalities, where they only have a children's group, and there are educators who simply have nowhere to put the child and have to go to teach. It's a big problem for them. I was trying to figure out why that was decided. I was told: The mobility of half a million people and children's groups and the forest kindergartens did not fit in. I don't understand. We can't explain this to these people. So please, if you're planning on changing that when. I understand that this is also the co-aggression of the Minister of Education, but I was told that the limit came from the Ministry of Health and the experts who work with you. We can't explain this to these people. Please, what can be done about it and when it is possible to expect - and at the same time please think of it as a big appeal - to open children's groups and forest kindergartens for those parents who are on it as well as other parents who today have the opportunity to put their child in a kindergarten that is open. Then I also want to pause on the vaccination strategy for teachers. I don't understand why there were no clear priorities here, so that at this point, like Monday this week, all educators, plus those who serve in kindergartens or schools, who have been operating since Monday, are inoculated. Why didn't there be clear prioritization? Why do even educators who are likely not to take part in the trial by the end of this school year? So whether it's changing or changing now, to make it clear that if we gradually relax, those who wanted to inoculate and get the chance to get inoculated will be going to teach. So these are probably some notes. I'd love for you to answer that specific question. One last thing, if you're considering the priority inoculation in special schools. It is really a huge burden for many parents, and of course they have quite a lot of stress, and I think it would be worth it not only for those people who are chronically ill, they are younger years, but also for the pupils of special schools to make this possible, because it gives them more confidence that they can combine it with work. Thank you very much and I wish you very much, because it must be, if I am not mistaken, your first appearance in the Chamber of Deputies, so I wish you all the best of your missions. I say this now, even as an opposition politician and a representative of the opposition party, but I think it is in the interest of all of us citizens of the Czech Republic to make your mission more successful than your predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-015-513.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm worried the Minister won't answer you today, because we have a fixed point at 6:30. Professor Vyzula is next enrolled in the general debate, but I suppose it doesn't make any sense to speak. So once again, if there's no objection, I'm going to suspend this point. We will continue at 18.30 with a fixed point. Thank you. [[18.30 hours]] We have here 18.30 and we can fluently move on to the next fixed point. It's...
