ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u1	16. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between Member States of the European Union signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020 /German press 1019/ - second reading This Treaty falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance, but under the authority of the Government, the Prime Minister Richard Brabec will give the introductory word. Minister... I'll ask the House for peace. I will ask those who are upset about the outcome of the vote on the show to transfer their indignation outside the O.R. so that we can continue our negotiations calmly. And please, if necessary, the rapporteur of Mr Petr Beitl's foreign committee, if he is present. And if he is not present, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch will state it, here I have information, so he is ready. Is the Minister ready at this point or isn't he yet? It's not ready yet. So the Minister is asking us for a minute's break, so I will also ask you to be patient for a moment and we will continue at 11.17 hours. So it's 11:17 p.m., we'll continue. Before I give the floor to a given point, I'll introduce you to the note cards. Mr Juchelka apologises to us between 11.15 and 2345 hours, i.e. until the end of the day, for working reasons, Mrs Hyťhová apologises to us throughout the day for working reasons, Mrs Nevludová apologises to us between 9 and 11 o'clock for personal reasons, and Mr Kolařík apologises from 11 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. And so we will continue, and I will ask the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to justify this international treaty. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, my apologies for the delay. The agreement, which is now tabled by the plenary to agree to its ratification, was signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020. In the first half of December of last year, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and also the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommended to give its approval of its ratification at the beginning of May of this year. The negotiation of the Agreement is the completion of the long-term efforts of the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union to find a common procedure for the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union which are incompatible with European Union law. Finally, 23 Member States of the European Union signed the agreement, while others intend to deal bilaterally with the situation. It is Finland, Ireland, Austria, Sweden and Great Britain. From the perspective of Czech constitutional law, this is a Treaty of the presidential category. By the entry into force of the Agreement for the Czech Republic, there will be no need to amend the legal order of the Czech Republic, but all existing bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union to which this Agreement applies will be terminated, including all amendments and protocols to them. [[11.20 hours]] The list of these contracts shall be as set out in Annex I to the Agreement excluding the application of the withdrawal periods in those agreements. The agreement itself has already entered into force on 29 August 2020. For each Contracting Party which ratifys the Agreement after that date, the Agreement shall enter into force 30 calendar days after the deposit of the instrument of ratification with the depositary of the Agreement. In the absence of ratification of the agreement by the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic will still be exposed to potential new claims by foreign investors, despite the fact that the bilateral agreements in question are contrary to the law of the European Union and the arbitration findings are not enforceable in the European Union. Such claims have the potential to burden the state budget and, at the same time, the Czech Republic puts itself at risk of initiating infringement proceedings by the European Commission with potential budgetary implications. In this context, it can therefore be concluded that the agreement will have a positive impact on the state budget. Finally, let me mention that the agreement has so far been ratified by Denmark, Hungary, Croatia, Cyprus, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Estonia, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovenia and recently Germany. The Czech Republic should also not wait any longer for this step, so I would like to ask you to agree to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u3	Thank you and please the rapporteur, who will therefore be Mr Bžoch, if no one objects to bringing us up to speed with the committee resolution and its recommendation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The Foreign Committee addressed this document at its 56th meeting on 13 May 2021. After hearing the report, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify the agreement. This resolution is in the Houses of the Press 1019/1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u5	Thank you and I am opening up the debate in which Mr Kobza is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the SPD movement has long and consistently not supported the ratification of the agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union. We clearly consider bilateral relations between independent and sovereign states, which, on the basis of voluntaryity and mutual advantage, govern their affairs, including business and economic issues relating to them, or their companies and their citizens. In this respect, investment agreements and their protection are a traditional and functional instrument of national and international law, where sovereign states set up their relations with each other, because only they know what is best for them and their citizens, including how to resolve any disputes, rules for changing these agreements and so on. We are strictly opposed to delegate these competences to the institutions of the European Union, which, by definition, do not defend our Czech national and economic interests. Above all, the European Union is an organisation and institution that we consider temporary, unlike national states that are permanent. The membership of some states in the European Union is also temporary, as we could see from the example of Great Britain. Therefore, it is certainly not appropriate, responsible or practical, to cancel any bilateral agreements between the Member States of the European Union, because there may be a slight situation that some of these bilateral agreements will have to be negotiated again when the European Union leaves another state or states, as we have heard recently quite often in connection with Poland and Hungary. I therefore propose that the present press be dismissed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-002-016.u7	Thank you. I do not see any more applications for the debate, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: No.]] This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote on the proposed resolutions. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. again. [[Gong.]] There was a motion to dismiss. I suppose that's enough to express that if the people who oppose you say so, okay? So I'll wait for my colleagues to gather in the hall. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020,' as said here. I think everyone who wants to be present is already present. Initiating vote. I ask, who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 101, 115 Members and Members of Parliament, for 88, against 9. The motion for a resolution has been approved. This concludes the discussion of this point. I thank the rapporteur, thank the Minister for representing the government, and we will move on. The next item is point number
