ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-001-337.u1	337. Government bill of construction / House print 1008/ - third reading I thank the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, for taking the position at the rapporteur's table. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to do the same, and this is Mr Martin Kolovratník. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the 1008/10 Houses of Press, which has been delivered to you on 13 April 2021. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 1008/11. I ask the Minister for the plaintiff, the Government of the Czech Republic, if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That is so, and before I give you my word, I will ask the House again for peace. [[There's still noise in the room.]] Please take your seats. If you want to discuss something other than building law, please be in the foyer. Just a moment, Madam Secretary. [[9.30 hours]] I hope, given what a matery it is, that we all perceive the importance of that point. I mean, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Those discussions - I don't want to name individual actors in the discussion room. Well, thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-001-337.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting here today on the third reading of the bill of construction and the related amendment law, which is discussed as House prints 1008 and 1009. The drafts of both laws shall be discussed and recommended by the Economic Committee of the House for approval. I firmly believe that we will discuss these two absolutely fundamental laws together and send them to the Senate as quickly as possible. I am sure that all of us sitting here agree that a change in building law is absolutely necessary and is necessary quickly. The Czech Republic regularly falls in the World Bank's assessment of the length of approval of new buildings. While in 2018 she placed in an unflattering 156th position, in 2019 she dropped by another post to 157th place from 190 countries around the world. In light of this assessment, we all agree that our common goal must be to speed up the process of building authorisation in the Czech Republic. We all want apartment buildings, highways, bypasses, but also family houses or garden houses. In short, we all want construction to start on all levels. That is why I believe that there is a global consensus on the need for a new building law, which is confirmed by a poll of public opinion, where more than 75 percent of the people addressed are calling for the new building law. I would like to say that the construction law is the most fundamental law that the present House is debating during this parliamentary term. The construction law is extremely complex to discuss, because you need to strike a balance between the interests of all stakeholders. Moreover, these interests often go against one another. You know very well that the actors I'm talking about aren't just two or three, but there are dozens of them. During the moderation and search for a compromise between all parties, together with our fellow ministers, we had to fulfil our own difficult homework, to ensure the protection of public interests from the point of view of our ministries. At the very beginning of the construction law hearing in the House, I said that I had no problem supporting any meaningful proposal that Members would come up with, and we would be happy to help them prepare such a proposal at our Ministry, which many of you have used, and for that they owe a great deal of thanks. The comprehensive amendment of the Economic Committee is not only based on a government proposal, but also reflects the comments of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Legislative Council of the Government on the government law that we have assessed as justified in our Ministry and that is why we have decided to support this proposal. This comprehensive amendment seems acceptable to other ministries as well. That is also why this proposal has become the basis for the second reading amendment. I'm sure you've all picked up passionate reactions around a separate model of the state construction administration. Dear colleagues, all the time I have watched this debate and I am very often part of it, I am sure of one thing. The dispute between advocates of a separate and merged model is essentially such a philosophical conflict, but crucial from the point of view of respect for deadlines. It doesn't matter how much time we spend on these debates, because the proponents of the mixed model will still stand for the correctness of their journey, as well as the proponents of the model of separate government. Let's see how it really is. Our citizens, representatives of professional associations and many others, do not care if they are given a stamp by an official of the municipality or a civil servant. They want it fast and they want clear and predictable deadlines. I cannot forgive myself that this is, moreover, absurd, because the municipalities that they are fighting for never belonged to, only exercised them for the state for more than four billion a year. I therefore ask everyone to realise that the construction law cannot be disapproved at third reading, because its non-approval would mean a delay for at least a few years, and if we want to invest in this current crisis, we really cannot wait long for the new law. I would now like to comment on the amendments. I would like to begin by saying that I thank everyone once again for the amendments you have tabled. There were many good ideas among them, and I was happy to support some of them. Unfortunately, some have not been completed in such a way that they can be supported, or these were proposals that went against the sense of recodification. A total of 76 amendments were tabled to the construction law at second reading. As I have already said, I consider some of them useful and I believe that they can improve the proposed legislation. I would like to mention, for example, Mr Sadovskýý's proposal under number 7861, which makes adjustments to the uniform standard of planning documents, or I also consider Mr Dolínek's proposal to be very good, it is a proposal for charging stations for electric vehicles, or Mr Polanský's proposal for an electronic building journal, or Mr Zaorálek's proposal under number 8046, which deals with the costs of the builder. On the contrary, I consider Mr Kupka's proposal under number 8021, which was applied to the Economic Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as well as to the Constitutional Legal Committee, and was rejected on all committees at the beginning of April. The other proposals I see there are rather debatable. Mr Kolovratník's proposal under number 8008, which proposes the transfer of the procurement of planning documents to a separate remit, can be identified as one of those debatable ones. Although I and my colleagues from the Ministry are in agreement with the idea of strengthening the role of self-government in the zoning plan, in December last year, when colleagues from large cities, including Prague, Ostrava, Brno, came and said that, of course, beyond the framework of the established working group for the future form of spatial planning, they would like to try to prepare a proposal for second reading so that, in fact, the territorial planning would be within a separate remit. That's when I said, "Okay, let's try it. If this is viable, legally correct, and if there is consensus on all those involved, I have no problem supporting such a proposal. One of the basic things that my colleagues and I have been pointing out since the beginning of this proposal is the risks arising from such a change to municipalities, which we have in the Czech Republic more than 6,200. It is very naive to think that in law we will exchange the word "transmitted" for "separate" and nothing will change. It is a change of the whole system, it logically carries with it a lot of other changes and it is necessary to think about all the impacts. As Minister for Regional Development, I am concerned about the impact on small municipalities. However, as I have announced several times, the position of the Union of Cities and Communities, which brings together most of the cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic, is crucial to me in this. If the municipalities agreed to this new setting, despite my concerns, I would support this proposal. In particular, the problem of the territorial planning of a separate area of competence is its financing. While the transferred competence is financed by the State, self-financing is self-financing. The State can only help with grant titles for its own purposes. However, there is no legal claim on them and it is always a question of negotiating with the state budget. The Union of Towns and Communities did not support this proposal by voting for its Bureau. Brno, which, together with Ostrava and Prague, belonged to the main promoters of individual competence, did not support and abstained. Mr Mayor of Prague, who was the main driver of this proposal, voted even against him. I know that the proposal in this form is strictly rejected by all resorts. We know that the Union of Towns and Municipalities and many professional associations reject it. For example, President Hanák wrote to us and expressed his concerns about the adoption of this proposal, which, in his view, goes against the principles of recodification. Now that I have all the positions I have been waiting for, I have to change my personal position from the Economic Committee to this neutral amendment to disagree. In addition to this amendment, I would also like to mention some of the proposals, such as Mr Kalous's proposal under number 7936, which, in order to protect inaction, effectively returns the Institute of Building Authorisation. So this proposal, too, has been rejected several times at the Legislative Council of the Government. [[9.40 hours]] We regard Mr Dolínek's proposal under number 7623 as another such inappropriate amendment, which confers on the municipality the position of the institution concerned when authorising construction. The municipality would thus have a double position in the proceedings, which is contrary to the principle of equality of participants. I would like to mention another amendment which I consider problematic. It's the design of a so-called pretty town. This proposal and its adoption would mean the notification of the construction law and therefore delay the negotiation for several months. Allow me briefly to amend the amendment law, which amends the laws directly related to the new building law. A total of 37 amendments were applied to this law at second reading. The most important is the comprehensive amendment of the Economic Committee. The amendments go to the Line Act, the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, the Public Health Act, the Energy Act, the Forest Act, the Agricultural Soil Fund Protection Act, the Mining Act or the Monument Care Act. Let me ask, in particular, for the support of Amendment 7681 by Mr Luzar, on the issue of the Fire Protection Act and the Integrated Rescue Corps, for which there is broad political and factual agreement. I shall take a favourable position on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking you for your great interest in the construction law and many amendments. As I have already said, some of them I consider appropriate, some of them problematic and some rather debatable. In the vast majority, however, the opinion of the Ministry for Regional Development agrees with the opinion of other ministries, so I believe that you will take this into consideration in the vote, because the common interest of the ministries and Members is nothing more than to defend public interests. I would like to ask once again from the bottom of my heart to support the construction law, because I think it will be a huge step for the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-001-337.u3	I thank the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová for her opening speech and open a debate in which I have three priority rights. The first is the rapporteur, although Bartoš's colleague is here earlier, but since the rapporteur has asked for a procedural proposal to merge the debate, I believe that Bartoš will allow this speech to be voted on. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-001-337.u4	Thank you for the space. Good morning to you. Indeed, I am now in the role of the rapporteur only with a procedural proposal or request, because all these prints go hand in hand, they are interlinked, 1008 and 1009, so I am giving a procedural proposal - we have already done this at second reading and at first reading, and please join the debate on these two prints, because they are completely linked to each other. Logically, after the debate and the submission of all our arguments, when we reach the point of voting procedures, we will divide again, first we will vote separately under the resolution of the guarantee committee press 1008, building law, and then press 1009, laws related. [[Gong.]] And if I have a word as rapporteur, then perhaps my small duty to recapitulate the process here in the House and for the screen recording, so I will quickly remind you that the first reading of the House began on 5 November 2020. Guarantee Economic Committee - there we agreed on that long period between first and second reading, for which I would like to thank my opponents, both sides had a very long time to prepare and study individual proposals. The Economic Committee and other committees met on 3 February. On 12 February, the present comprehensive amendment under press number 1008/7 was published in the system by the Minister and the second reading took place on 1 April. So this is a recapitulation, and now I am asking for a merge of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-098-10-001-337.u5	I've begun to invite everyone I've asked to take the discussions to the lobby so they can return. I'll check you all out. I'm going to ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. The proposal to merge the debate on the press 1008 and 1009 at the third reading will be decided by voting number 308, which I have begun. I ask, who is in favour of the merged debate? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 308 out of 83 present is 71 in favour, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore proceed in a merged debate.
