ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u1	348. Proposal by Members Adam Kalous, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Volný, Jan Pošvář, Zdeněk Podal, Antonín Staněk, Jana Krutáková and others for the law on the promotion of gardening activities (garden law) /house print 634/ - third reading I will ask Mr Adam Kalous to take the position of the appellant at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee of the Agricultural Committee, Mrs Monika Oborná. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 634/6, which was delivered to you on 4 December 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 634/7. I'm asking the plaintiff's representative. [[Noise in the hall.]] I beg the House to remain calm! Yes, my colleague Kalous is interested in opening the debate before opening the debate. I'll wait until the situation in the House calms down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time I presented a proposal for a garden law in this place as a petitioner, I used three words - tradition, massiness, utility. And I think those are the exact words that express the nature of gardening. This is a proposal that has support. It was supported by seven out of nine MPs, and without a doubt, it has support for approval, although I must say that some colleagues are using this law as a beatdown for some media abbreviations. If we succeed this time, it will be the fourth attempt to systematically address the interests of more than 350 000 Čech and 140,000 members of the Czech Gardening Union, which is one of the largest interest unions in the Czech Republic. [[11.30 hours]] In fact, it is the interests of a much larger group of residents of the Czech Republic, which benefit directly and indirectly from the gardening activities of others. We often hear here that priority support should be given to such laws and projects that will promote the ecological diversity of the Czech landscape, but also to cities that will help keep water in place and deal appropriately with it and many more. This, among other things, is what the gardening law is all about. One of the so-called arguments against the law is that it is unnecessary, redundant and that gardeners can work without it. After all, their current operation is said to be evidence of this. I just can't agree with this. On the contrary, gardeners need their law, protection and a clear definition of public interest. Above that, however, I think that the role of politicians is also to send out symbolic messages. Even so, I see this law: as a symbolic sign-up not only to the legacy of the 100-year history of Czech gardening, but above all as a symbolic expression of support for the following years, when we will need their activities in and outside cities, when the importance of gardening will continue to grow. After all, this trend is also well seen from abroad. Not only in countries that have a long tradition in this, such as Germany, Denmark or the United Kingdom, but also in new gardening states such as France and Sweden. Where they realized the importance of gardening in time and went to active and effective protection and support, gardening is now prospering and is being used by many people, such as large cities. As a good example, let us take the capital of Germany, Berlin, in which the gardens occupy about 3,000 hectares, i.e. about 3.5 percent of the city's area. Gardening can be done here by those who want to, whether in classic gardening colonies or currently in very trendy community gardens. I myself was surprised at the effect they have on their surroundings, for example in its cooling and formation of microclimate or in the management of water and its maintenance in the locality. But also in the biodiversity they try to maintain here, thanks to which local children do not know some animal species only from books or rural visits. On the other hand, let us not take the example from countries such as France with its lack of and late legislative support for gardening, when there is a place for gardening in Paris for more than ten years. Whatever political party or movement you are from, I believe that if I make only the fundamental arguments for gardening, and therefore support for the law on the promotion of gardening activities, you will find a reason and it will probably not stay with just one person to raise your hand and give this law a green light. Gardening sites or more generally gardens are part of the green system of cities. They are an integral part of their recreational green areas. Very often, they make a major contribution to the so-called green belt of the city. The division, divide and complement its urbanised areas. They co-create green view horizons. They are one of the stabilization elements of quality life in the city. They contribute to the creation of the urban landscape through their multi-functionality. A common phrase in my text is biodiversity, what am I talking about here? For example, the fact that gardens are a place of occurrence of native plants and trees, including many protected ones, that they are one of the places with very high variety of species, thus providing the background and food to a wide range of animals. Many of them are already so rare or even at risk in the Czech countryside. There is no question and no doubt that gardens in cities represent more potential to protect and support biodiversity in a built-up area of the city than urban parks, for example. As current studies and practices show, rare species or escapes are very quickly domesticated on completely newly founded garden colonies and the site thrives in terms of biodiversity wealth. This beneficial activity is one of the most affordable leisure activities, both spatially and transportally, financially and socially. Today's world is a very dynamic environment, and therefore it will need other leisure activities than workout courses, bike paths, etc. It is the garden settlements that allow age-free recreational use throughout the year. Moreover, in their proper implementation, they can fit into the overall concept of a transparent city of short distances. They follow the residential background of the city, walking and cycling routes. Last but not least, gardens also save public finances when quality maintenance of greenery is done free of charge as a hobby by city residents themselves. I am convinced that, after this list, the question is why to support and legislatively adjust gardening activities is almost redundant. Our aim and message should be to adjust the position, the public benefit of the garden movement in the legal order of the Czech Republic and thus help create the prerequisites for the implementation of its mission at local and national level. Perhaps, thanks to his support, our children will not have to travel tens of miles to see what a lizard, a hedgehog, or a bee look like. So that cities don't become parched gray monoliths, but to be disturbed by modified and useful greenery. Perhaps, thanks to our decision, we will be able to better retain water in the urban landscape and return it, cool the local environment and, at best, support the microclimate. Just support gardens as a natural part of Czech cities in the future. In my opinion, the submitted legislation, which enters into third reading, is the best prepared of all that Members have dealt with here in the past and also a balanced compromise. I highly doubt that it would be possible to find a different, better or more balanced version. That is why I ask you, fellow Members, with a certain amount of urgency, to support this law. I think I've presented many reasons why. Thank you for your attention and I wish us all future cities with gardens and gardeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Adam Kalous, for the introductory words. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Jarošová is the first to sign in, Jan Pošvář will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I just want to say that I'm really glad that we can finally discuss the law of gardening at third reading tonight. I believe our gardeners deserve it after an endless almost 20 years of waiting. Our SPD movement is a co-president of this novel. The Czech Garden Association currently brings together more than 135 000 gardeners and this activity is also carried out by non-members of the Czech Garden Association, either by individuals or by associations. So it's a lot more people, it's not a small group of people. And although it has a long tradition of gardening and social importance in our country, it is not currently explicitly regulated in any separate legislation, unlike some other European countries. The main objective of this amendment is to adjust the position and public benefit of the garden movement and define it as a public service activity. I firmly believe that this time it will finally succeed and we will finally approve this bill. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u5	Thank you. We will now continue the debate with a factual remark from Mr Dolínek. Co-worker Pošvář is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u6	Thank you. I apologize for using tech. I'm here for a colleague - sometimes less is more. I support the law. I'm glad we're gonna accept it. I disagree with the opinion of the starosta that we should wait for the building bill. I think if he was in a collision, there's always a second reading of the building bill to correct the law. There are ways to get it out in case there's something wrong. But why do I say that sometimes less is more? Because if you sit here on tram number 20 and go to Dejvice, there's a unique protected area where there's lizards, and there's not a single garden, there's nothing there, there's a stone wall where the lizards are sunny. It's a public area, and we don't need gardens. On the contrary, in Prague, conservationists have dozens, hundreds of locations where there are no gardens, nothing like that, and species naturally return there thanks to protection and precisely because there are no gardens. Because that's where the common nature works with the support of protection. That's why I say sometimes it's less than that. The speech was too full of stuff... [[11.40 hours]] I could also say from the Prague example that where we have garden colonies, as I say, I support them, we have ensured in Prague that they could not sell out, they could not be alienated, we helped gardeners to preserve the unique territory. But she's impenetrable at the same time. In Prague, all these territories are locked up, whether you are in the Balkans or not, there are two paths, in Nebušice and in the area, in Jenerálka, but you will not pass. It's just not like you say in your speech that you can ride a bike there. You often have to go around, go around. So I say less is more, but I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u7	Thank you. Now, Mr. Messenger Pošvář. Mr. Adamec will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the gardeners have so far had no certainty, no legal anchoring of their activities, and some related protection to be tailored. At the same time, gardening is a rather significant activity that has a positive impact on the whole of society. In the first place, garden settlements are part of the urban green system. They help to keep water in the cities and cool even in the summer days. Many research shows a positive effect on human psyche. Green strengthens the mental and physical balance of a person. And let us not forget also the effect of self-grown food on health. Especially at the time of the pandemic, the garden is a kind of oasis of peace and a safe zone. We must not forget the benefits for gardeners to be self-stocked in the garden of food. In the extreme case, it is the ability of the garden to replace the market completely in this respect. But this joint bill of ours will not solve all the problems that the gardeners are burdened with. I believe this is an important first kick. The law will continue to evolve and expand. However, this must not mean that we will needlessly extend the declaration law, which is more suited to the explanatory report than directly to the law, as Amendment B2 does, for example. The text of the proposal is fine, I would like to sign under it, however, as I have already said, it is more in the explanatory report. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support all the amendments, in addition to that B2, and, of course, the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u9	I thank Mr Jan Pošvář. Mr Ivan Adamec now and Pavel Kováčik has signed up with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at third reading, but given the way the House works at the moment, the split in half, unfortunately I could not speak in other readings, so I will of course use that time and, at the same time, comment on one amendment which I do not like at all, and I will say the reasons why. I must begin by saying that I am not in favour of the special law of gardening, if I take it as of course... and on the other hand, I was in favour of gardening. You might be wondering how it's going together, but I'll explain it to you in a minute. I think that what Mr. Speaker said here, of course, I see as a positive proclamation and that we can agree on this. But how to solve these problems is another side of the matter. And I think that a special law that is full of proclamations and some amendments - they are not as innocent as they look - paradoxically, gardening activities do not have to benefit at all because whether gardeners are in cities, we do not decide as a parliament, but the municipal councils or the councils where they are rentals decide on it. That's what needs to be said. Tradition, massiness, utility. Yes, I agree. On the other hand, Čech are a nation of mushrooms. Yes, tradition, massiness, utility. Are we gonna make a special law on this? Not at the moment, I don't think. But I'm terrified of the time when most of the people's representatives meet here and say that this is an important layman's work, and it needs to be regulated by law. Do you really think we need to regulate every human activity by law? And especially those activities that take place in self-governing cells? You really think city councils, municipal councils or city councils, mayors against gardeners? By the way, Berlin fell here. I've seen the old Berlin airport turn into a community garden. It's nice. It may be sexy for the young, but most of these gardens are more or less in the management of older people at the moment. That's what needs to be said. They're just seniors. And I must say that we, for example, have never raised rents to gardeners in their colonies in 23 years. Never, because we're glad they're doing this. And let's not be illusioned that the gardens as a whole will be subservient to urban greenery, seat belts, city forests. It's never gonna be like that. It's an additional activity. And once again, I don't think we have to have a special law for complementary activities. I really don't understand why we're breaking into something that runs on its own. I don't understand the representatives of gardeners who want to have the so-called security that, by the way, don't exist in the world. The only certainty is that we all die. It's just reality. And cities are changing, let's say that too. I have had the opportunity over the last 23 years to judge where part of the garden colonies or land was once in the extravilion of municipalities, today it is in intravilán and in a number of cases it can hinder the development of the city. But, of course, it is up to the authorities to satisfy those interested in gardening and to move the gardens to other locations, because this activity really is very important for local communities, it is beneficial. But on the other hand, I don't understand why we should be here deciding how to do this. I remember that. It's been done here a couple of times. I confess that I do not understand the position that, under such a clear aim of doing good for this group of people here, we are simply deforming our legal order. Special laws... And we all know that. But I guess it doesn't really matter anymore, because we've already messed with this place, this legal system, these kind of designs, and they've approved similar special laws that maybe it's naivety of me to tell you that we shouldn't be doing this. I repeat once again: Gardening activities are beneficial activities. But it's one of the many activities of human society. People just do a lot of things in their spare time. I understand the benefits of green. Why not, in the end it's good. Let's have a garden colony! People who live in apartment houses and want to have contact with nature, want to grow something, so that's okay. Let's give them the space. By the way, there's also a little bit on the mouth of the fact that the municipalities provide the activities of their associations, associations of their citizens. The attitude of the city and the community as it treats its citizens is important. I mean, the administration knows that very well. And if it doesn't allow its citizens, then citizens are losing their reason to vote for the government. Let's face it, let's face it. And let's not think that by some law, we're going to change society in that spirit. We won't. There's gonna be a law that's full of proclamations. I would like to point out here that if anyone thinks it's a good idea to put in the bill that we're ordering the municipalities for how long they're supposed to pilgrim the land into gardening activity, it'll only lead to the fact that the municipalities won't want to pilgrimage the land because they're afraid that their maneuverability will be very small in the next ten years. And at the cost of knowing that the gardens will be replaced somewhere else. Of course, there are a number of places, I say again, the places are expanding, they are expanding, and let's not just look at Prague and the big cities - it looks completely different in small towns. I just feel like it's completely wrong. I repeat, I warn against Amendment A7 because it is the result of an anti-gardening activity. And please, once again, let us consider whether we really want to indulge the legal order of the Czech Republic with this bill, whether the declared intention actually accepts this bill, that it will guarantee gardeners that they will better garden, that they will be calmer - eventually they have a law - and whether what the gardeners here thinks will fill their imaginations with the material we are supposed to approve at the moment at third reading. [[11.50 hours]] I think it's a deep misunderstanding. It's a big mistake. Nothing's gonna happen. Any legal standard that regulates human behavior always encounters problems of circumvention, especially in this case where the proposal is completely provocative, toothless and, as a result, against gardeners and their gardening activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u11	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Pavel Kováčik's colleague, although he has applied with priority rights, I will ask for more time to wait. I have two factual points, from Mrs Procházková and from Mr Dominik Feri. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u12	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. To my foreman, through the President: I am the Chairman of the Association of Scalniks, and I can assure you that the community is absolutely not conducting our activities, it is not interested in it at all. Many of our members have rocks in their gardens that are ploughed, and the rock that has conifers - the conifers are formed for many years - and when they lose the garden, they have to retreat to various development plans, so it is sad. Those people, I think, really deserve some protection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Dominik Feri's factual comment. A colleague Pavel Kováčik is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. A serious colleague, dear colleagues, a question in a particular village, but then it is a matter of appeal, for example, in the context of a hearing at a given council. That, in my opinion, is no possible argument that should be put up with here in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I remember the first reading, the exact same arguments fell, we said: it is a useless bill. We are now preparing together as an ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 electoral coalition program on the justice section and one of those points that we definitely want to say and declare there is some legislative austerity, which means the laws to break rather than the laws to accept. After all, we see it now that we do not adopt too many new laws within the Chamber of Deputies, so I think the public is lucky that we are dealing with just the covid. And this is exactly the example. We don't have to look at 1919, like we did with some of the designs, 1918 - the obsolent laws. Here's an example. This is an example of a completely unnecessary law right in front of our eyes. Do we really have to adopt our own law? The gardeners are doing a great job, and I want to get a garden and garden very soon, but I don't need the law to do it, I don't need that kind of support. And the best proof of how useless this law is, when we meet here in two or three years, I think a large part of us will still be here, and we'll evaluate it, evaluate the effectiveness or impact of this law. The impact will be zero, the law will be useless and mature to abolish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The President of the KSČM member's club Pavel Kováčik will now speak with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. You know, if I would like to follow up on the last de facto Mr. Feri: just so that the legislative austerity doesn't go too far, because where there are no laws, the law of the jungle enters. For example, such a law of the jungle, which favors various interests other than the interest of man, a citizen who appears to build a rock in his own good and on almost his own or rented land. But such a rock is a work of art, and not only a work of art, it is also, in its own way, an archive of plant species and cultivars, which these people often build for decades and whose legitimate interest is also to be the archivist of those species and cultivars, plants and subsequently also animals, insects and the like, that this work also has some kind of right to at least some kind of consideration, I do not reflect in any way. That is the reason, or one of the reasons why we are going, and I have now personally, confess, the feeling of a climber's state just before reaching Mount Everest, because we've been doing this for twenty years, I'm one of the parents of the proposal along with many others, including former Members today, or even current colleagues and colleagues, and I think that finally maybe we can finally finish the top hike. And I have to say that one of the reasons why we once set up a subcommittee on hunting, fishing, beekeeping, gardening and breeding was also the reason that people who represent these interests, which are undoubtedly very beneficial, traditional, should also be kept for the future and that communication should take place. The result of the communication of the subcommittee, the individual members, where almost all the clubs are represented, is this draft law and at least most of the members who were involved in law enforcement, creation or co-production were at that time expressing themselves and expressing themselves mostly positively. I would like to ask not only for the sake of the rockmakers, but also for the cactiists and other specialized organizations, who are in the collective specialization, to build up their rocks, collections, interesting works of art, to take account of and support the proposals made by Mr Luzar, who are my proposals, which I put into the system, and because of my illness, I could not sign up for them here at second reading. So I'd like to ask you to do that. In advance, I want all those who do not add up just one and one are two or a thousand and a million are a million thousand, but also the symbolism that was referred to here by the representative of the petitioners, a colleague whose opening speech I fully sign and ask the rest of you to do the same, I ask politely, politely, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kováčik. He made a factual remark to Ivan Adamec. Mrs. Mrs. Krutáková is still ready for her performance. A real point - you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u18	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond to an honourable colleague, Mr Kováčik, by your means. The fact that Mr Feri here spoke of a certain revision of the laws in our legislative system is not that we want to break the laws that are important to society, but that are simply extra. Yes, where there's no law, there's a jungle, but it's not like that. We regulate a lot of activities by law, I'd say, multiplicating and completely unnecessary. That's what we're talking about. I repeat: please, we all have the same interest, if you have noticed. We want gardening to prosper here. But with this bill, we're hacking into the authorities, we're hacking into even the gardening associations, because I don't think all the things that are outlined here in the material - I hope they don't all go through - are in their favor. And really, believe me, I've been working for the mayor in town for 23 years, and I have a lot of experience with gardeners. Where there are some specialties, it is something completely different, the city must stand up to it, and if not, choose another representative. For God's sake, the people of these cities have the right - just to choose the council that will, I would say, fulfill their desires, their wishes, and just what people want in that city. And if they don't, they won't last much longer. So I just want to say that this bill is completely useless, and I support the gardener. By the way, I support mushrooms, beekeepers and all human activities, because this is, of course, part of my work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u19	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now in the debate, Mrs Jana Krutáková. A colleague of Bendl will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a company, we stopped a year ago. What seemed normal to us a year ago today is difficult and difficult to reach in many cases. But what no one has forbidden and cannot forbid is to take care of flowers, grow their own crops in gardens and gardening. So I welcome this bill, which aims to legally anchor gardening activities as a long tradition in the Czech Republic, to adjust its position and to help create conditions for its operation. The Movement of Mayors and Independents is a co-president of this law. And I would also like to draw your attention to the amendment tabled by me, together with my colleague Věra Kovářová, which is referred to as House document 6634. Its aim is to clarify communication and information between municipalities and their citizens concerning the territory reserved for gardening activities, by allowing municipalities to define areas for gardening activities within the territorial planning documentation. This will, of course, carry with it further legislative amendments. I therefore believe that you will support our amendment, which will significantly facilitate communication between gardeners and municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u21	Thank you and Mr Petr Bendl will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to support the words of my honored colleague, Ivan Adamec, who, as I would like to say, has presented an opinion on this whole legal standard here, because we who have ever been in municipal or municipal councils have often come into contact with gardeners and gardening as such and have always supported them as far as possible. But what's happening here right now is basically interfering with the powers of self-government. After 1989, we gained our freedom. Part of the acquisition of freedom was that we would also move the decision-making from top to bottom, because in cities and municipalities they generally know much better about certain activities, they have better information, they can communicate better with people than at those political levels that are far away from them. One of those competences, by the way - what my previous speaker said here, that you propose to put into law so that municipalities can define the territory for gardening - well, that's where it is! I am surprised that representatives - colleagues from STAN - do not know that they can set aside areas for gardening in the area planning. This is the same as determining industrial zones, as determining zones for sports activities, etc. But it is also true that, since the garden colony, it is almost another situation, therefore it is not possible to solve it completely across the board. I can imagine that the introduction of a paragraph that limits the handling of property belonging to cities and municipalities, saying that you can only rent for ten years, will also be explained: ten more years. And then the conifers don't. It's just a matter of perspective. And when the Member, through the President, complains here that these representatives may not be making a decision in favour of someone... As a Member, you have the right to speak there, to propose a resolution, to speak to anything. I suppose you've done that, that you're certainly able to say, yes, I've pushed through there, but the deputies, that means the citizens' representatives in that community, they said no for some reason. And we can't even identify them here. Often the issues of cities and municipalities inside are much more complex and we feel like we're going to make a line here and say - we know better than the people in the communities that are beneficial to them. We, as the Czech Republic, have applied to the local government charter, which means that we have shifted the power and ability of citizens to influence public matters around them, down to the edge, to cities and municipalities. That's what we say by law, we're moving it back. Well, we don't like it that the council decides otherwise. We are the MPs, so we will load you up, we will decide for you here what is needed, we will decide for you what to do with this property. Tonight it's just gonna be a little bit of a decoy that it's gonna be about gardeners, that we're gonna tell the towns and municipalities: no, you're just gonna rent them the land for ten years. Tomorrow it'll be an area of culture, then it'll be a sport, then it'll be anyone else, because we'll know better how to support this beneficial activity. And we're gonna start dictating to someone how to deal with their property. I don't like that principle. The fact that we are to support such federal activities is undisputable. And that's how it happens that reasonable councils do it, that's just the way it is. Yes, sometimes, over time and age, a garden colony becomes part of the city centers, and now there are disputes there and inside that garden colony, which was my case. When I was mayor of Kladno, we wanted to build family houses on the site of a garden colony. Half wanted to, half didn't. The opinion of environmentalists on this - ecologically, there is a large garden higher, less small manure, I will simply say. But the other way around, they said, "But we're older people here, we're running our own business here, we're coming here... The debate was extremely difficult. And now we're going to stand above them: we're going to decide for you, the law will just dictate it to you. I understand. That's a political statement, co-worker Kalous here - that one would press a tear - say so deeply... I'd like to know if he wrote it himself or if a writer wrote it to him. But the reality of life is just different. Limiting the management of the property of municipalities: it is not good when we start with this, and we surprise me especially that STAN is for instead of supporting the position of the Union of Towns and Communities, which he says - do not interfere with the competences of self-government, you do not know better than we do how to do it. And if, in the construction law, you can modify some things, but they're not defined by which ones. There I think in terms of technical, construction etc. falling into that territory... It's in the zoning plans, when it's being discussed, it's crucial, there's this discussion where the city's going to develop, what it's going to do. Everyone can be actively involved there. And that's the decision of the people in place. We, for God's sake, do not start with the salami method that we will start talking to cities and municipalities into their competence, with the fact that we will get used to the fact that the MP knows better than the mayor or representatives what the local problem is and how to solve it. That's the way to hell. And I ask very much, of course, with an appeal to the mayors to perceive this issue and support such associations, so that we do not vote here for this law, which will not give them any certainty, and when they read it, they will realize, especially those older people who already have some experience will understand that they still have to deal with the village, they still have to deal with the council. Ten years goes by like water. What's next? Now I'm going to perform - they've arranged it for us, so let's rent it out for ten years. And then what happens? Doesn't that bring trouble in? For God's sake, let's not approve of the laws that reproduce the jungle. We just approved one - the Food Act. God forbid the European Commission will agree to this. This is an unnecessary law, we don't need it, reasonable mayors and councillors not just gardeners definitely support and support and always find a better option with them than we do in our decision making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u23	Thank you, and Mrs Věra Procházková will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u24	Thank you again for the floor. He won't give it to me, I have to. Let me give you a classic example. A beautiful garden, which they visited from all over the Republic, in a small village. In the village where the council is in several people - the same family still rules - it was decided whether to cut a piece from this garden around the river, on which unfortunately there were really beautiful trees and bonsai, for the cycle path! [[Emphasis.]] What am I doing here? It was argued that the cycle path was a public service activity. Yes, it is. But the gardener couldn't say, "And my garden, my gardening is also a community service." Well, I want equality at least. At least that's what the law is good for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u25	Thank you. Mr Antonín Staněk has joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, I do not want to delay for long, but I want to say that the Czech Social Democratic Party supports this parliamentary proposal for a garden law, which I am a co-president of. I very much appreciate the fact that this law has managed to ensure the journey through the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies until this third reading, and I firmly believe that, like here in the Chamber of Deputies, this law will eventually gain its support in the Senate. I agree very much with what has been said here by some previous speakers, namely what has been said by a fellow pirát. I, like them, see this law as the first kick out. I wouldn't see any buried dogs in it, hidden skeletons or anything like that, but I would really see the first excavation to do with the issues of gardening activity and the enormous amount of work, but also the money the gardeners put into their gardening, so that at least, as such, they can be sure. I myself, as deputy and mayor of Olomouc, had to deal with the difficult situation at the moment when we were faced with the obligation to send a notice to gardeners about the cessation of their gardening activities as a result of the fact that the gardens had to retreat from the flood control measures. Yes, the flood control measures at the moment were much more important and socially significant, but I did not have a very good feeling from some of my colleagues in the Council about how they ended their activities with these gardeners. They just announced an end, a deadline by which they have to leave the gardens, remove the buildings, and just go. I tried to convince my colleagues that this isn't the way to do it. There are a lot of old people there, for whom the garden was one of the few places where they came to nature, where they could mentally rest, where they could carry out their activities. We were looking for a way to deal with this situation, and here I agree with my colleague. Yes, it is a council that has allocated areas in its zoning plan, which have subsequently been designated as gardeners, are ready and can be worked with. Yes, it's about the deputies, but I don't think we're breaking into their jurisdiction. We are merely creating a framework by this law in which the council and gardeners can move. There was the terminology of massiness, utility. I don't think it was intended to mock the work of gardeners. You know, a lot of them, when they have a garden of ten fifteen years, they really cultivate, they evaluate the land. And it would be polite for them to be able to get something for what they put into it, even if the necessary cancellation is necessary. And that's just a question of a contractual relationship, and the law here suggests something similar. It's a sure thing and a guarantee. I don't agree that only the old ones garden. On the contrary. I think that the interest in gardens in cities is growing among young people who see in this activity, in this, say, social application, social activity something that brings a piece of humanity into the city, a piece of something that brings back to them nature, which we slowly but certainly lose in large cities. I thank and am glad that they are the starosta and independents who are co-submitters of this law, because it only confirms that they have a broader view of the problem than just a narrow view of, say, the mayor and the council itself. And it's not a complaint. I fully understand the Civil Democratic Party and its position on this law. They are consistent because it was President Václav Klaus, who vetoed a garden law in 2010 just before the end of the House, which went through the entire legislative process and the House was no longer sufficient to approve it, and actually the law fell and was no longer discussed. So it was a great shame, and I believe that nothing like this law will happen on his journey again. And I thank all those who have participated in it and who will support it at this third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u27	Two factual points will follow. First, Mr Dominik Feri, then Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u28	Thank you. The colleague here, through the President, mentioned equality. Yeah, but is it equal because someone has a garden, like flood control or a bike path or a road that connects two parts of the village that are hard to reach? That's not where I see equality. I wouldn't call it equality, but more like a match in some territory. And we're gonna look for that match here in the Chamber of Deputies? Are we going to say here that in our community it's like this, and another heartbreaking story from another community? No. Let's not play the world director! I mean, those who are supposed to make decisions about it, and those who are supposed to be looking for a match in the territory, they're the deputies. These are the councils that, within the area planning, will tell each other where, let's say, public interest is, if we want to name it that way, what's more important. I mean, if there's gardens over there, or if there's anything that's gonna make it public. Let's leave it to the communities, let's not inerge into their gestures, into what they know best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u29	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec, followed by Mr Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I would still like to respond to what has been said here in the debate. By the way, I'd like to ask my colleague Staněk through yours not to tell STAN the mayors, because the mayors are everywhere else and perhaps somewhere more than STAN. There's only one thing I want to say, and I'm surprised at them because they don't defend the interests of the authorities. They don't. And exactly what you said here, through Mr President, about the flood-related situation, it turns out that this is exactly the authority of the council. That is, if some representatives do not know how to behave or have other ideas, the majority will always decide anyway. Most in that village will decide whether or not the garden will be there. Let's face it! And we think we can make a better decision here? Better and happier for the so-called local, municipal welfare? So what do we have communities for? What the hell do we have self-government for? Let's face it, we're replacing someone here. We think we're lords of the gods, that we will determine in the Upper Lower, what will everything look like? We don't want that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u31	Thank you. And now, President Vojtěch Filip, at this moment, the last one registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u32	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to my colleague Feri and my colleague Adamec. You see, there was a large garden colony in České Budějovice, which was wedged behind the left-hand seaside communication, and we had to make an station communication that would be the driveway for the D3 motorway. But it was hard to find a compromise when the gardens were not only bought out, destroyed, but found more land for them. The curtain in law is also very important for representatives. I was a representative of the city of České Budějovice and I know how difficult it was, and we had to join forces, all political parties, to find - and it was not easy - a way for those who had to destroy the garden because of the railway communication to find the right replacement for them and to accept it. And believe me or not, the adjustment we have here is general. [[12.20 hours]] Yes. They make some people do what they normally wouldn't do because they might not want to. But he has a purpose in the law. And it makes sense for both the council and the gardeners and their surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u33	Mr Antonín Staněk, then Mr Petr Bendl, is now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u34	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say, as has been said here by your colleague, Mr President, from Mr Filip to Mr Adamec, by your way. I really do not believe that the bill presented is breaking into the competence of the municipalities, that it creates a framework that even the municipal representative will see as necessary. [[on the contrary]] I'm sure we're not breaking in, and we don't want to decide what's going to be in the Upper or Lower or Upper Lower. But I understand your concern... or your concern, because many laws often become a tool for something else. I'm sure it's not the intention of the petitioners either, but I understand that things can go wrong. On the other hand, I say again, it is not the intention of the petitioners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u35	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u36	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to defend my colleague Adamec's position. Mr Filip, colleague of the Vice-President of the House, through Mr President: you basically confirmed that this solution is not just a matter of the council meeting. This law wouldn't do you any good. Nothing. On the contrary, it would make the situation even more difficult for you, because it would tell you, if we pushed through your proposal - and it is not true that we are interfering with the competence of self-government; if this amendment, which concerns the obligation for cities and municipalities to deal with their property, goes through the competence of self-government, it is not. The moment you have something like that in there, you'll have a more difficult situation. If gardening colonies were on the Prague bypass, what would you be dealing with? Ten years rental, end, bypass Prague. What is greater welfare for the public? Finding a solution that is always at the level of self-government or say: so there will be no bypass, because here the garden will be preferred. With all due respect, it's not like that! You're suggesting that's the case. We're just denying reality. We're denying the fact that the council has to solve it anyway. They must be communicating there anyway. Here we are fighting basically for the votes of gardeners: We are for you to be in the law, and thus you will vote for us. That's what it's called. But the law doesn't really help anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u37	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec, factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues. I will respond here to Mr Staněk's honored colleague. I have no doubt about the godly intentions of the petitioners, to be clear between us. I don't think we're different in relation to the gardeners, except we're different in ways to solve the problems. And I think that this is the fundamental contradiction and contradiction to how we perceive, for example, the stability of the Czech rule of law, how we perceive the stability of self-government and such things. Let me say one thing. You know, I think all intentions are - maybe except for the exceptions - God-loving here in the House. But I always warn about it. It needs to be examined from all sides. Because the road to hell, as they say, is always paved with good or godly intentions. Thank you for your attention. Let's be careful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u39	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Mr Adam Kalous, Mr Adam Kalous, is interested in the final words. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just going to briefly respond to what was said here. I took two of the biggest criticisms of the law from the discussion here, and that is that the law interferes with self-government and that it is redundant. So that's the first one. We're not hacking anywhere. The law does not provide the municipality, state or region with any obligation to leave these land. It is therefore purely for the community to consider whether it will leave the land for cultivation to the gardening association, for example. To the minimum time to leave the land for ten years, I would add that this period was chosen to the fact that the ten-year period is suitable for the reclamation of the land, because the shorter period... Of course, the land cannot be recultivated in that time even if it is some unused land, etc. As far as excesses are concerned, that's what's most common here. I think - I have already said this - that gardening activities in the Czech Republic have such a long tradition and so considerable influence that its position cannot be addressed only by means of private law, which, unfortunately, are not currently offering resources that could be used for example for relations between gardening associations and land-pumpers. The legal standard recognised by the public utility of gardening activities is lacking, and there are no tools to support gardening activities and the creation of new settlements. All of this is brought about by the new law, including the possibility of the municipalities and the state to leave land that would otherwise remain unexploited and uncultivated in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u41	Thank you. The rapporteur is interested in the final...? No. I will ask Mr Dolejš, the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration, formally, if he is interested in speaking with the final word? He doesn't. So we can proceed to the vote on the amendments. And I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u42	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues. So, given that no further proposal has been tabled or has been made in the debate, we will vote on the amendments under the original procedure. I would like to inform you immediately that, on the basis of information from the legislative department concerning the amendments of the A1 to the A15 Agricultural Committee, en bloc will be voted with the exception of point A4, which is in conflict with point A12. It's just a technical matter. However, I wanted to tell you in advance so that you wouldn't get caught up in any way during the vote. So as far as the procedure is concerned, the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the following order in the third reading on proposals for draft laws: 1. Proposals for legislative technical adaptations if presented at third reading. 2. Amendments to the Agricultural Committee A1 to A15 - en bloc by one vote. Once again, except for point 4, which is in collision content. If these amendments A1 through A15 are adopted, Mr Luzar's B1 amendment will become unvoted. We would then vote on Mr Luzar B2's amendment. Next is Mr Luzar B3's amendment. 6. Amendment by Mrs Věra Kovářová C. 7. The Act as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted. So it's like this for the procedure proposed by the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u43	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl is applying for the procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would suggest that we vote specifically on point A7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u45	Yes, thank you. I will ask the rapporteur whether she will adopt this proposal or whether we will vote on it as a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u46	I would have put it to the vote as a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u47	Yes, okay, I understand. So first, we will vote on the counterproposal for the draft procedure. This means that point A7 would be voted separately. Are we ready for the vote? I think so. Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 61, 101 Members registered, for 80, against no one. We have accepted the motion. And now, with this decision by the Chamber of Deputies, we will be voting on the procedure as proposed. I've heard the application for check-out, I've checked you all out, please sign up again with your cards. Okay, and I'm gonna vote on the procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 62, 97 Members registered, for 97, against no one. We've approved the procedure, and we can follow it. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u48	Thank you for the floor. So, given that there were no legislative technical amendments made at the third reading, we would now vote on the amendments to the Committee on Agriculture, with the exception of point A4, point A7 we would vote on the basis of Mr Bendl's request, so we would now vote on the amendments to A1, A2, A3, A5, A6, A8, A9, A10, A11, A12, A13, A14, A15. These amendments regulate the gardening activity, the definition in particular, and also define the time of the swamp and specify the period of notice of the swamp.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u49	Thank you, please, for the committee's opinion. [[The opinion of the Agricultural Committee is positive.]] The appellant - an opinion. [[Positive.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 63, 98 Members registered, for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u50	So we would now vote on the basis of Mr Bendl's request, especially Amendment A7.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u51	Yes. Opinion on proposal A7. Thank you. [[Positive. The Committee's opinion is positive.]] The plaintiff? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 64, registered by 98 Members, for 66, against 19. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u52	So, given that Amendments A1 through A15 have been adopted, we will not now vote, or have become an unvoted amendment by Mr Le Luzar B1. So at this point, we would vote on Mr Le Luzar B2's amendment. This proposal defines the public benefit of gardening activities. The opinion of the Agricultural Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u53	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 65, registered by 98 Members, for 63, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u54	So now we would vote on Mr Le Luzar B3's amendment. This amendment defines the cultural value of gardening activity and its preservation. The opinion of the Agricultural Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u55	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 66, 99 Members signed in for 78, versus 3. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u56	We would now vote on Mrs Věra Kovářová's amendment under letter C. This amendment defines the scope of the municipality in the promotion of gardening activities. The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u57	Thank you. The plaintiff's opinion? [[Positive.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 67, 99 Members signed in for 78, versus 4. The motion was not accepted. [[That's right: the proposal was accepted.]] This has dealt with all the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u58	That is correct, Mr President. [[The votes from the Chamber concerning the vote number 67 shall be heard.]] . Therefore, please let the law as a whole vote. Mrs Věra Kovářová's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-003-348.u59	And I said he wasn't accepted? Well, I'm sorry. I meant, of course, that he was accepted. Well, let's get it fixed for the log. Thanks for the heads-up. And now, as I have already said, we have voted on all the amendments, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion of Members Adam Kalous, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Volný, Jan Pošvář, Zdeněk Podal, Antonín Staněk, Jana Krutáková and others to issue a law on the promotion of gardening activities, according to the House of Press 634, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' [[Garden law]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 100 Members registered, for 81, against 14. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur, thank the representatives of the appellants, and I conclude on this point. Now, let's look at the point.
