ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u1	486. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 87th session of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 24 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with, and therefore asked for inclusion on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to each written interpelation. The first interpelation, which is House Press 707, was interrupted into the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, whom I do not see here, and therefore we cannot continue to discuss this. Another interpelation, which is House Press 709, which is the interpelation once again by Mrs Olga Richterová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, was also interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, so we will not discuss it. Another interpelation, which is press 770, is the interpellation of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to the Prime Minister, was also interrupted by the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and we will therefore not continue. Another is the interpelation of Mrs Kovářová to the Prime Minister, who was interrupted by the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and we will therefore not continue to do so. Another interpelation is the House Press 1015 by Mrs Kovářová, who was also interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and we will therefore not continue to do so. Another intervention is the House Press 1017 by Mrs Kovářová, who was also interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and we will not continue to do so. Another intervention is the press 1075 by Mr Kaňkovský, who was also interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, and therefore we will not continue to do so, because even the Minister apologized to us. Similarly, the interpelation, which is House press number 1096, which is the interpellation of Mr Stanislav Blaha, has been interrupted into the presence of the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, so we will not continue. And next, there is the House press of 1098 by Mr Jakub Janda, who has also been interrupted. This interpelation has also been interrupted into the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and we will not continue to do so. Next, there is an interpelation, House press number 1107, by Mrs Richterová to Minister Maláčová, who was interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I don't see the secretary either, so we can't continue this interpellation. There is also a House press of 1110 by Mr Jakub Janda on the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. This interpelation has not been interrupted, so we can continue to do so, I see the Member. So Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to the interpelation of Jakub Janda on the navigation of the Odra river on the Polish side of the border, plans of the government of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1110. I am opening the debate and I am sure that the Member is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u2	Hello, good morning. I request that this interpelation be interrupted in the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u3	Okay, thank you. This is a request to be put to the vote. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. Since we don't have enough numbers right now, if we don't meet, we'll probably continue as usual, which means we'll move the vote to the end of the block. [[He's waiting a while.]] I'll wait a little longer. I will ask everyone to sign up if necessary so that we can vote on the interruption. However, if this does not happen - I still see some incoming Members - then this point, if no one objects, I will interrupt and we will vote on its interruption by the end of the block by intercession next time. So, it looks like we're going to continue with the interpellation. We'll deal with the vote later. And now there is interpelation, House press 1115, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mr Marek Novák's interpellation in the matter undersized by the OSPOD. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1115. Mr. MP, I don't know if he's here, Mr. Mr. Novák? So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I'm going to ask for the interruption of this interpellation to the Secretary of State's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u5	Okay, I understand the proposal, and I'm going to proceed the same way I did with the previous interpelation, because at this point, we're not in enough numbers to vote for the procedure, so we're going to deal with it when the number increases, or at the end of the block. I interrupt this interpelation, we will continue with the next one, which is the House press 1124. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jan Lipavský interpellation on the planned journey by economic advisor to the President of the Republic, Martin Nejedlý, to Moscow. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1124. Mr Lipavský is present, so I am opening the debate and the Member is reporting for the floor, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I still do not see the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, so I would like to postpone this interpelation to his presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u7	I will point out that this is an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u8	I'm sorry, I served two, even for the Prime Minister. Since the Prime Minister doesn't go to interpelation for a long time, I believe he might change his mind, so I'm going to ask for a stay until the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u9	Okay, thank you. I will proceed in the same way as before, unless anyone objects. This means, given that we do not have enough to vote on interruptions in the process, I will interrupt this interpellation given the situation we are in and move on. I now have an interview with the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, who responded to Mr Jan Lipavský's interpellation with regard to geopolitical security of building a new low-carbon electricity generation source based on nuclear energy. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1125. Mr Lipavský is present, so I am opening the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u10	Hello, I would also like to postpone this interpelation to the presence of Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u11	I understand this proposal. Once again, we will vote on it when there is sufficient presence of Members in the Chamber or when it is eventually at the end of the block. And now I have an interview under House press 1127, which we have not yet opened. First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček responded to Mr Stanislav Grospič's interpellation on the massive dismissal of Czech Post employees, a state enterprise. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1127. I don't see Mr Grospič at the moment. I'll give him a little more time, if possible, to make his appearance if he's in the lobby or somewhere nearby, because we're still moving faster than usual. However, if the Member is not present, I must say that his intervention cannot be discussed, and the House will no longer deal with it. Next up, there is an interpelation under House press 1128. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Pavel Žáček's interpelation on the contribution of the Ministry of Finance to the collapse of the repair of the building housing of the Office for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes in Siwiecov 2, postal code 130 00, Prague 3, Roman 3. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 128. The Member is present, the Minister too, so I am opening the debate. The MP will be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u12	Thank you, thank you for the floor. Good morning. Of course, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, although we both know that it is not entirely exhausting. After all, I would sum up some of the key points that led me to submit this interpelation. Why do we have to deal with the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes as one of the smallest chapters of the state budget? I think that many of us perceive and know from the media what property management looks like, which is in the hands of the current managers of this chapter or the Institute. Specifically, the main building of the ÚSTR in Prague in Žižkov looks like houses on August 21, 1968 around the radio that burned down after the intervention of Soviet armored technology when Soviet soldiers wanted to get on the radio. And for me, it's also necessary to talk about how it looks when the state can't properly take care of its assets, in such a small chapter, whose budget is, if I'm not mistaken, about plus minus CZK 260 million. Of course, that's what the question comes from when we can't handle it in a chapter this small, what it looks like with some bigger ones. The second reason to mention was a rather long investigation into our central criminal office, NCOZ, which ended in a sort of strange delay. Personally, I've been here several times on this subject. I don't believe there's any political pressure, but, of course, it goes beyond another resort, beyond the Ministry of the Interior. However, what's in the name of the interpelation, the share of the Ministry of Finance, which I see in the fact that the Ministry of Finance is involved in the control of the operational programmes, I would say online control of the individual steps, and in my opinion, this was not the case here, because if that were the case, I think that the chapter would not have gotten into the situation in which it is. To remind you, I was informed by the Minister that the reconstruction in the history of the headquarters of the ÚSTR in Prague in Žižkov was included in the investment plans by approving the documentation of the programme 155020 Development and restoration of the material technical base of the ÚSTR and ABS, which was approved by the Ministry of Finance on 15. 10. 2015. The programme envisaged the implementation of the circuit jacket, i.e. the repair in 2017 at the planned value of CZK 150 million, and therefore the budget of the chapter of the ÚSTR was increased by CZK 100 million in this year, followed by CZK 31 million in 2018. At the same time, the ÚSTR ensured a strengthening of the budget for the implementation of the event on EU funds, the Operational Programme Environment, amounting to CZK 8.8 million, and the national resources of the OPŽP of CZK 13.3 million. In my opinion, management failure, poor preparation of the entire project for this memory, in the past important memory institutions have led to the fact that this building is uninhabitable, all open floors blowing through the wind, and totally devastated. In my opinion, this is a great, great embarrassment. According to the information sent to me by the Minister, 36.8 million were spent on this investment project on 31 July 2020. I'm saying that these were special circumstances that NCOC was investigating, which I add. The result of this investment can therefore be summarised in the sentence: For almost CZK 65 million from state resources controlled by the Ministry of Finance, the building of the ÚSTR headquarters was irreversibly destroyed. I would, and that was also part of the question, have mentioned one more thing. I asked if the Treasury, or the State, was okay with investing in this building in the past. I asked if the state, the Treasury, knew how much the investments were in recent years. The answer was: The Ministry of Informatics, which resided in this enchanted building between 2003 and 2007, put 61.2 million into it. The USTR, which took over this building in 2007 and 2008, put 25.2 million into it. It's structured here, in the answer. The fact is that part of the funds, I don't think it can be counted entirely for investment in the building, because the part is for example for computer or IT equipment that was probably removed from the building today and somewhere travels like a vicious Holanďan in Prague, so if the sum gives 86,7 million, so let's say that it would be a total amount lower. However, at the same time, when the raincoat tender was announced in quotation marks - a mere, not an entire building, so he repaired management for example shortly before, building a side entrance to the library of Ján Langoš in the order of hundreds of thousands of crowns, I estimate up to half a million, and it does not seem to me that it was really money that would be systematically spent with care of proper economics. As we know, it has failed, the cloak is not repaired to this day. The Minister mentioned a number of meetings with management representatives. And in this situation, the same management, which thus ended this stage, which he obviously did not have, began to prepare the so-called second stage of reconstruction, in a reply from the Minister, called the overall reconstruction. The estimated costs in this second phase increased up to CZK 472 million, CZK 472 million, and it must be said that the Minister was very reserved to increase the budget of the chapter. [[Secretary Schiller off the mic: Denied.]] Yes, I quote to the Minister: refused. Yes. [[9.20 hours]] The second basic thing I wanted to add after the Minister was that we both came out of other records when assessing the information, because I also asked about the costs that the chapter of the ÚSTR had spent on moving, those costs, when logically employees had to reside in other premises, just those amounts. The Minister was based on current - I quote - "from current sources of CRAB registration," according to which the annual rent regulation for the use of the administrative building was worth 2 million and less than 500,000. We know that the National Cultural Office considers the CRAB to be inaccurate, full of errors, and when I confronted him with the data, some of the contracts that are deposited in the State Guardian were missing. They were real estate leases, so there was no complete amount. As far as I know, the USTR doesn't pay rent only in the building on Winston Churchill Square, in the former Union House, but also has lease contracts, such as parking parking space rentals, warehouses at Žižkov Freight Station. By the way, since 2017, the USTR has been renting warehouses here for an indefinite period of almost 600,000 crowns a year. So in this sense, I asked for a supplement. I'd add a historical-political background to that. This management was introduced by social democracies and Greens in 2012, 2013. We all remember getting Daniel Herman kicked out of his position as director of the USTR. His expulsion took on such an arch that he became your colleague in your previous coalition government, so I assume that you were informed about what happened at the Constitution, how it was staffedly cleaned, how things changed there, they had directly from the source, and that's why you're surprised that these people had confidence that even though they were in quotes properly headed by the institution, so that they would be able to do some larger projects. I think that after the first phase, not only outside the state sector, the public sector, but also in the state organization, they should not get a second chance. I would also like to comment on one more information that was probably affected by the response or communication with the USTRA regarding the state of the building. Among other things, you said in the conclusion that the Ministry of Informatics invested CZK 61.2 million in the building in question over the period... years, the amount of CZK 61.2 million, the highest investment and so on, for construction works in the framework of the reconstruction of the building caused by its emergency situation. It should be noted that the technical state of the building has nevertheless been unsatisfactory since the ÚSTR took it into use. I remember the building wasn't ideal, it was blowing from a number of windows. On the other hand, I do not believe that the then governments would be able to entrust such a supposedly bad technical building to the Ministry of Informatics and then to delimit it to the ÚSTRA, which accepted it in good faith. Nothing happened in this building. In my opinion, everything questionable came only by the change that led this building, that it really looks like a building after the attack of Soviet tanks around the Czechoslovak Radio. Of course, I wonder how many of these buildings are unmanageable, if you have any idea, in the hands of the state, even in the hands of larger chapters than the chapter of the STR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u13	Thank you. Madam Secretary is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the response to your intervention has been approached, as has every response, but to this in a very, very thorough manner, using all the available resources and information currently available to the Ministry of Finance in this matter. The issue of the reconstruction of the Institute's headquarters for the study of totalitarian regimes has already been the subject of several questions, from various parties, of course, including your interpellation, so allow me to limit myself, therefore, to reply beyond the written answer, so that I do not repeat what I said in the written reply. You didn't even quote a lot from her. In 2015, the property reproduction programme 155020 was approved Development and restoration of the material technical base of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and Archive of Security Forces. The program included a reconstruction of the perimeter mantle of the building worth CZK 150 million. In view of the planned level of state budget participation, it was in accordance with the Budgetary Rules Act on Systemic Action, which was fully in the competence and responsibility of the administrator of Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. However, the management of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes subsequently declared the need for a significantly larger scale of construction work. The entire project was to continue to be implemented under an existing building permit for the reconstruction of the building, which was extended several times. The request to determine the state budget expenditure for financing the second phase of the reconstruction, which envisaged the need for a substantial increase in funding, has not yet been submitted to the Ministry of Finance. I have dealt with representatives several times, my colleagues, we have written X letters and no supporting documents were submitted to the Ministry of Finance for the purposes and needs of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, such as project documentation with cost verification. It has been requested several times, either from the level of my colleagues, either the Deputy Director or the Director of the Office of Representation in Property Affairs, which, of course, led a number of negotiations on this subject, or even mine. In January 2020 the Institute's management presented the concept of a complete reconstruction of the building, whose costs were estimated at CZK 472 million according to an expert opinion. The intention envisaged the replacement of supporting building elements and ceilings, i.e. it should have been a new construction instead of a reconstruction, although carried out under the original building permit. In this situation, I have expressed my disagreement, I say disagree, with further increases in the budget of expenditure, Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The Ministry of Finance subsequently offered through the Office for Representation in Property Affairs several possibilities of obtaining suitable premises for the location of the Institute's headquarters from the offer of state-owned properties currently unused. I was explaining to management that given how many people are sitting there... I'm just really not... politics never gets involved in these things. I am certainly not under any influence, but I am primarily defending the economic interests of the state, the interests of economy, and, given the number of officials, the fact that part of the agenda is supposed to go over a different chapter in the future, and in the light of all these facts, I have suggested that they use offers other than reconstruction - this costly because we have moved from 150 million, I say to 472. I add that, regardless of the management and approval processes relating to the budget, the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes was 14. 10. 2020 started by the Ministry of Finance's control department public administrative control, which is focused on a comprehensive audit of the Institute's management, that is efficiency, efficiency and economy in the management of public funds during the period 2018 to 2019, which may be a bit of an answer to your other suggestions. Depending on the development of the control, the audited period may be extended by a period prior to or following in specific areas covered. So we're going to see what's going to come out of this check, it's going to be done very thoroughly, and then it's going to spread either forwards or backwards. In the context of an ongoing check, this is before its actual termination within the meaning of the rules of control, it is not possible to provide public observations on the state of the investigations in progress or on the facts found so far. In general, however, I can confirm that the subject of the control is also the use of public funds for expenditure relating to the reconstruction of buildings or expenditure on rents. [[9.30 hours]] Finally, honourable Member, I would like to stress that the legal powers of the Ministry of Finance in this matter have been, are and will be properly used to protect public funds. As Minister of Finance, I am actively involved in this subject, which I hope is supported by these steps. Of course, if you have any suspicion of an infringement, I am merely asking you to direct the standard procedure to the relevant administrative authorities or to the law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u15	Thank you. We will therefore continue with the debate to which the honourable Member is reporting, I see. Please, Mr. Žáček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u16	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, thank you for your information, albeit general and brief on the ongoing control. The key question is how long it has been tolerable for the government, for the state to keep this building as it is, and by when it must be qualified to decide. That is what I think is perfectly legitimate, because it creates different costs or more costs. And the second thing is which... and again, of course, I appreciate your procedural approach to this. It is clear to me that this is a very sensitive subject for your government, because the issues of the past are also very difficult with regard to the Prime Minister. It really should not be politically involved, even though everything has its political dimension, and that you have an impartial assessment of the economic situation. And it's also, by the way, the management, the management that's there today, is perceived. But I'm sure I'd ask you one more thing that's crucial to me. The tools for continuous control of all these investment events are in the hands of the Ministry of Finance, or your subordinate, some official, head of department, who could actually follow the management process online. And I think it kind of implies the need to intervene in the event of some kind of collapse of the program or its failure to do so in real time. And here I would like to ask you why it didn't happen, and why the losses that resulted from it, among other things, the rents, among other things, that the institution, I'm not talking about a completely different credit or about what it looks like abroad, that's a completely different chapter, so here I was wondering why it wasn't, when you were so well informed, if somehow you initiated your submission to you, what happened and what the role of the finance minister in this process is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u17	Thank you. The Minister will respond in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u18	Thank you for asking. I repeat: I think that all these steps are clearly illustrated, and not only in this, but also in a number of other cases, that it is absolutely apolitical that we are monitoring economy and economic governance. The idea - I don't know what kind of idea you have of watching it online. Each chapter shall have certain appropriations allocated and shall be managed in accordance with the budgetary rules and other rules. And it is her responsibility, her responsibility, whether legal, arising from competences, and perhaps criminal if she violates those obligations. Of course, the chapters that are connected to the Treasury, so we see certain movements there, but that doesn't mean we're watching inside the management of the chapters online. I don't know what you have in mind. We are able to track the movements in the Treasury when the chapter is involved. And precisely because certain funds were allocated there and there were requirements for increasing them, which was not reasonably demonstrated, was not adequately answered, and it seemed to us that at this stage it was already inefficient at this stage, as I said, that a group of people, relatively small, should be engaged in such a demanding reconstruction of the building, so we are offering rents, therefore it is there and was intensive communication with the Office of representation in property matters. And we will continue to take these steps, regardless of the fact that it has been asked several times to prove it to be... It didn't all happen. And all of this led to the communication, the fact that last year we started the public administration control. I will await those results, which is happening at the level of certain departments by competent personnel, and on the basis of those results will be continued. It's a routine procedure, it's consistent with the regulations, it's done at the administrative level. And believe that officials do nothing but follow their duties, because they too are responsible under the Civil Service Act or, of course, under the relevant criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u19	Thank you. The Member will still respond in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u20	Thank you again. I'd just like to ask if you have any idea when the check should be completed. And the other thing. I had that question, I don't know how you reacted to it, and the question that's being offered, because it's a building, and I know I was getting it for the STR, it wasn't easy at all. It's a building that's interested. Let's just say it's between the Union House, where, by the way, there's a mansion - or who's in the possession of one of those development groups that would definitely be interested. Viktorka Žižkov is there, he's right across from the pump. So my question was, if there are, if you have any signals that anyone would be interested in using, even if it's still state property. I'm aware of that. And then I'm asking a rhetorical question, if you have any idea how many such buildings in such a state, I'm not saying in such a key place in the center of Prague, is it? If you've got this under control. Because - I repeat - the size of the chapter, the physical destruction of the building for me again, it feels emotionally to me that the management, thanks to its inexperience, simply sat on top of it from the beginning and engaged in a project that they did not have from the beginning, which was badly done on the basis of documents that were ten or more years old. And I think there was some intention that would have led this memory institution to lose the building, just from the start. Question: "How will we or the State deal with this, how will they deal with it and who will be responsible for it?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u22	The first question I will answer is that I never enter the administrative activities of the supervisory authorities within the Ministry of Finance, ever. That means I'm always fully acting within the competences I have, so at this point, I can't tell you when the check will be completed. I'm guessing it's been going on since October, that it might be moving slowly, but I don't know. And, of course, I don't know if the control authorities are going to spread the control like I told you. That's up to them. According to the findings that will be against the audited period, they will decide whether to extend it forwards or backwards. That's totally their business. And I never ask and enter unless I get the final conclusions to the extent that I can get them. So that's... I can't give another answer. As far as your answer is concerned, I have no information. It was pushed from different sides because, you know, there's a whole series of buildings that are being dealt with, and I don't know about it. It's handled by the property representation office, it's handled well, and I'm proud of how this office works. However, I know this because I have not had such pressures and questions from the various parties that I have had in both chambers of Parliament since I was in office. So I'm sure this building is waking up passions. I don't have this information, and I don't care, because if this building was available, we have a state property law here, there's no other way to proceed than according to the written paragraphs, and it would be processed by the State's Property Representation Office. That means, then there's the procedure of publication, unnecessaryness and so on. It has to be offered within the public sector, then there's an auction and so on. This has absolutely precise procedures and believe that they are always strictly followed. To your last question about the building overview: you understand that I don't know. I'm not exactly gonna give you the number here, but if you're interested, I'll either invite you or you can interpel me or text me, I'll leave that to your discretion. But the property representation agency has done a huge amount of work, no matter how far it's going to be in the area of embedding different buildings without owners, whether it's in the process, in the electronization of auctions, when it's own forces, without any IT company, without any imminent vendor lock, it's created a system where it's done electronically - I've graduated it on my social networks several times - whether it's just in cleaning all those cadastrals and here these inconspicuous relationships. [[9.40 hours]] Now you may have been evoking me because... as there is so much and we all live in covid and a whole range of other agendas, so maybe they remain a little bit of a Cinderella within the resort. It's a shame, it's a shame. So maybe I'll talk to the headmistress of the Arayma, do some more promos on the social media that the office's been through. Maybe there's an answer to your questions. Unless you want to approach me directly, which, of course, I am at your disposal at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u23	Thank you. The Member shall no longer submit to the debate. So, if no one else is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Pavel Žáček if he is proposing a House resolution on this answer. He's not suggesting, so we have this interpellation settled. Thank you. We will move on to the next one, which is the Parliamentary Press 1129 where Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interview with the Government of the Czech Republic on a request for information on the continuation of the preparation and construction of the Prague 511 circuit. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1129. At this point, I do not see Mr Michálek in the hall. I'll give him as much time as before to eventually arrive from somewhere in the galleys, but I have information that this will not happen, so this interpellation is failing and the House will no longer deal with it. Let's move on, which is the Parliamentary Press 1132. This is again an interpelation of Mr Pavel Žáček to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to it. This interpelation is about protecting classified information in the Office of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 1132. The Member is present, so I am opening the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u24	Thank you again for the floor, but, of course, as colleagues, I would also wait for the Prime Minister to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u25	I understand. According to the facility, there are now enough of us to possibly vote. So I'm gonna try to call my colleagues in the O.R., and I'm also hearing an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. [[Gong.]] Please log in with your cards again. Let's see if there's enough of us to come together to vote now or not, and in that case, I'd postpone this vote to the end of the block. [[He's waiting for the MPs to come to the ballroom.]] Thank you. Members are still running low. I will repeat for those who are coming, that, before the procedural vote to postpone this interpelation to the presence of the Prime Minister, and because, at the time this proposal came up, a sufficient number of Members were entered on the board, so I proceeded to the possibility of voting. Let's see if we can get enough numbers together. I still see the Members who are coming. So I'm going to ask all of you to sign up so that we can possibly vote in a procedural way if we're going to fill in a sufficient number. If that doesn't happen, which looks like it won't, then I'll have no choice but to -- ah, watch out -- [[Other Members are coming.]] I believe that all who want to be logged in are logged in at the moment. We don't have enough to vote. In accordance with the previous procedure, I will postpone the vote on interruption of the interpelation at the end of the block. Thank you, everyone. Let's move on. There is also a House press of 1133. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, whom I welcome among us, responded to the interview of Mr Jan Lipavský, who is present, on the planned journey of economic advisor to the President of the Republic of Martin Nejedlý to Moscow. Interpelation, along with the reply, is presented as House Press 1133, as I have already said. Initiating the debate, the Member is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u26	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. In the autumn I intersected the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also the Prime Minister, more or less with similar questions, when information appeared in the media about the fact that the so-called advisor to the President of the Republic, Mr Martin Nejedlý, was planning a kind of trip to Moscow. Today we know that the journey has taken place. We have an idea, maybe we have some idea what happened there. However, this does not mean that the question is not relevant and that there are no questions to which we need answers. These circumstances are such that the President of the Republic Miloš Zeman calls Mr Nejedlý his advisor, however, when we ask the institution responsible for the implementation of the president's policy, i.e. the CPR, the Office of the President of the Republic, through which the President exercises his office under the law, they do not claim Nejedlý. They don't register him anywhere, they don't have a contract with him like he wasn't. Of course, there is nothing to prevent a person from having any different counsellors or people to consult, that's perfectly fine. The problem is that this person, who holds the highest political office in this country, that is, the presidency, also acts for the presidency, but has no factual relationship with the institution that serves as official support to the President. So here we are developing a parallel structure of a power, de facto power parallel structure, which, in consequence, carried out here an attempt on parallel diplomacy, in my opinion completely outside the legal order of the Czech Republic. What happened: The Nejedlý one in Moscow has raised a special exception for the Vice Prime Minister of the Russian Government, Taťána Golikovová. The reason is that, of course, strict anti-coronavirus measures apply, so he had to get some stump to travel there. It is not at all clear who paid the cost of the trip, because the information we have today - and perhaps the Minister of Foreign Affairs will put it right - was not covered by the state budget. True, the Prime Minister told me that the trip was not covered by the state budget. So I wonder who paid for this diplomatic service and what it was worth. There was a meeting, however, on the spot in Moscow to Mr. Some cooperation from the Czech state has been provided to Nejedlé, in the form of a Czech ambassador in Russia, Mr Pivoňka. They met there, they had fun. However, the Czech Ambassador was no longer present at the meeting itself with the Russian advisor, and we have another contact with the state administration at the moment when Mr.Nejedlý added a note of the trip, which, if I have good information, was made by the Director of the Foreign Department, Jindrák. [[9.50 hours]] We don't have that entry publicly. I asked for it and I didn't get it, I was referred to the Office of the President of the Republic. In the media, we can read some information about what was there. The question is, of course, what did he dictate? I am in the same matter - and that may be a new matter for the Minister, perhaps he knows, maybe he doesn't know - turned to the Office of the President of the Republic, I filed a request for information under Act No. 106/99 Sb., on free access to information, and in principle I asked the Office of the President of the Republic that there is a situation where a person who is not employed by the Czech Republic performed a diplomatic service for the Czech Republic and I wonder what value this diplomatic service is, whether there is a donation agreement or whether they have entered into any other contract to capture this in kind. I wonder what it's worth. Certainly, the diplomatic service, when you are going to negotiate with one of Vladimir Putin's closest advisors, is not worth zero, and if it has non-zero value, it should somehow be charged in the records of the Office of the President of the Republic or elsewhere in the state budget that this gift was therefore accepted. KPR refused to answer, squirmed and so on, we filed an appeal against it and it was rejected again, so the next phase is the Office for Personal Data Protection, which serves as another instance for the hundred six. This is still going on, the deadlines are running, in any case I consider it absolutely scandalous that the President of the Republic is making such parallel diplomacy, unchecked and uncontrollable, because when diplomacy is exercised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Parliament has a whole range of instruments, whether it be interpelation written, oral, committees, it can place points, whereas in a situation where a private person travels there, part of a castle party, it is actually completely out of control. And in that moment, the question, Minister, which is primarily directed at you is: What is the state doing to hold power in institutions under the law, whether it be a law of competence or a law on the Office of the President of the Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u27	Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] We will continue the debate. I will ask for more peace of mind in the hall, or those discussions that are not related to the subject under discussion, move outside the meeting room, and I will give the Minister the floor for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u28	Mr President, honourable Member, Members of Parliament, Mr Lipavský has raised a number of legitimate questions, which I can hardly answer from the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs, because this concerns the matter of the Office of the President of the Republic, however, to the path he mentioned. The journey of the external advisor to the President of the Republic, Mr Martin Nejedlý, did not take place on the basis of the mandate or instructions of the Government of the Czech Republic, which, according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, is the supreme body of executive power and is responsible for the implementation of our foreign policy. And this is a fact that is well known to our partners. As regards the organisation and preparation of this trip, the Ministry was not involved. The registration provided by the President's Office of the Republic shows that Mr Nejedlý, in his meeting with the Russian President's advisor, Mr Ušakov, dealt mainly with the agenda of the presidential offices, a legitimate matter at the level of the presidential administration. In the case of competence law: here I think it is quite clear that the government is responsible for the performance of Czech foreign policy, but this also does not solve that the Presidential Office would not maintain contacts with partners at the relevant level abroad. From this point of view, I understand, of course, that information and transparency in such steps would be welcome. We have discussed this with the President's Office, I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should also be involved in preparing for the future any journeys that are diplomatically outnumbered, however, just as we, like the Office of the President of the Republic, do not engage in government affairs, in relations between the states in charge of the government, and we do not designate the Offices of the President of the Republic to take action in the event of contacts with the Presidential Administrations or counterparts. As far as internal affairs of the President's Office are concerned, I do not feel competent here to comment, which is, of course, a question which should probably be directed elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u29	Thank you. Mr Lipavský is still reporting for the debate, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u30	Thank you for the floor. It was said from your speech that it was the execution of the President's agenda and that you were dealing with the Office of the President of the Republic. The fact that the president has provided for his foreign policy a man who has no formal relationship in that office, I understand that he's sort of beyond your agenda. The only thing that follows from this is that the Constitution needs to be adapted in some way and more subordinate to the President of Parliament. In many countries in the world, this is a common standard. In our country, the president is completely out of control, unchecked, not subject to anyone, and does what he wants, but is also part of an executive party of power, which is the same party as the government, so he in his limited capacities - the presidency is relatively small, it is a few dozen people - yet he sometimes manages to trigger such strange situations and strange waves. I thank you for your answer, and I understand that these questions must be addressed to the CPR and the President, after all, that is the procedure that I am voting on this matter. I'm not proposing a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u31	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. Mr Lipavský has already said that he will not propose a resolution, so we have exhausted this press and moved on. Next, there is an interpelation under House press 1135, which we have not yet discussed. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation on occupational rehabilitation. Interpelation, along with the reply, is translated as Parliament's press 1135, the Member is present, so I would like to start a debate. 1135, interpelation on Ms. Minister Maláčová in the case of occupational rehabilitation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u32	Thank you very much for the opportunity to briefly mention: this is a topic of working rehabilitation of people with disabilities. This is actually a topic of hundreds of thousands of people in the finals, because when I say an absolute number, there are 1,100,000 people in our country who have some - even low - disability rates and the right to work rehabilitation affects a huge number of people. So that's why it's important, it's a topic that's being used in the sense that we provide some kind of benefits as a state, we provide some kind of funding, but not those services so that people can get back into their original profession, if they get hurt, or that they can really use labor rehabilitation services so that they can get involved in full and even free life as they wish. I have dealt with this important topic by means of written interpelation with the Minister and with the Ministry on the basis of initiatives from the field, on the basis of initiatives from organisations working with people with disabilities, and on the basis of people disadvantaged themselves, that the system is set up very formally and the labour authorities that should assist with mediation and providing work rehabilitation simply do not do so. They don't do it in a functional way. So, in summary, we have a legislative framework set up here, which is not being implemented, so the right of people with disabilities to work rehabilitation is not being fulfilled, and it is disadvantageous for us as a society, because it could be filled with the possibility of people not becoming completely dependent on helping to become more involved, so that there is simply some possibility of adapting to a new situation of progressive disease, and it is not working completely today. [[10.00 hours]] From my point of view, the answer from the Ministry was inadequate because it did not deal with the arguments where the current system is failing, it is rigid and it will be stuck at the offices of work. It merely indicated the number of people who are helped annually, but which, in the context of that million, between 150 and 50 000 people who fall within the category of people with disabilities - yes, I know that is a very broad category, but it is good to realize that this is such a huge number - so in this context, the number of working rehabilitations is hugely low. And I'm going to close it by ending it with disability pensions, or with doses of material distress. It often ends with great poverty for people who have a serious health problem, while in other countries active with working rehabilitation, many people can keep their jobs or get involved with others, simply find the involvement that is appropriate for them. And I wish that was the case with us, and that is the whole topic of working rehabilitation: prevention, involvement, participation of all of us in the whole of society and long-term sustainability and public finances. So that's a summary of the subject. And I would ask the House to suspend the hearing until the Minister is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u33	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, there is a legitimate proposal to interrupt this point, which I would like to put to the vote. But I do, we already have 67 colleagues, so we can vote to interrupt this point on the proposal of colleague Olga Richterová. We'll decide that in the 75 vote that I started. I ask, who is in favour of the motion to interrupt the presence of Secretary Jana Maláčová? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 75 of 68 for 47, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and the consultation has been adjourned. We will now discuss another one. There's an interpellation of Jiří Valenta to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. My colleague Valenta is here, the Prime Minister is not here, but I am opening up a debate. I'm asking my colleague Valenta what he's suggesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike my many previous speakers, I do not propose that we continue to discuss this interpellation, which means that I do not consider, do not consider... interrupt this interpelation into the presence of the Prime Minister, because I believe that by the end of the parliamentary term we will see him here at these interventions very rarely, perhaps at all. At the same time, I would like to tell you that the issue of Czech television, which I wanted to deal with with the Prime Minister, is so broad, so crucial and so critical, at least in my opinion that one interpelation would not fix anything, basically the public would not know anything. Therefore, after agreement with some colleagues and other political clubs, we will deal with this issue in a different way, probably through an extraordinary meeting. We are beginning to collect signatures and we would like the Prime Minister to at least comment on this issue. Of course, no one wants him to have any executive intervention in the structures of Czech Television, but he's lying here, and you know that, the annual reports on the activities and management of Czech Television in a few years' time, and we would... We would also include them in this extraordinary meeting. So thank you for your attention, and I'm not suggesting anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u35	I thank my colleague Valent. That settles the interpelation. I'm gonna ask for a short replacement because the next interview is my intervention on Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u36	So I'm taking over the chair. For the record, I presume that no one calls for that previous interview anymore, and it is therefore possible to put an end to it. I am opening another interview where the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpelation on the support of the Czech aviation defence industry. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1140, and I am opening the debate, and Vice-President Filip has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u37	Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to introduce colleagues with the content of the interview, which is included in printing 1140. We have been arguing here for a long time about how the Army of the Czech Republic should look and how our defence is ensured. A number of colleagues blamed me for the fact that, as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, we sought to move 10 billion into the government's budgetary reserve at the expense of the Ministry of Defence's budget for 2021 and that these funds should be used to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, which is the main battlefield of current society, but also current policy. I was based on the fact that the Army of the Czech Republic, in its concept, provides for the purchase of its fighting technology and new technologies, as well as the means for individual budget years to be purchased, which will take place in 2022, not this year, but in the next year up to 2026. That's a thing that's funded five years in advance. I was struck by one crucial thing, and it is a matter that the advances that have become the subject of this dispute are paid abroad, to the Federal Republic of Germany, to France, to the United States of America, but to Czech companies, advances are not paid. Therefore, I asked the Minister of Defence to explain why Aero Vodochody did not receive any advance, even there is no proper order for the inclusion of L-39NG aircraft in the armament of the Czech army, although from 1 January this year the original L-39 training aircraft are already beyond their lifetime for their age and for the flying hours, and why the new aircraft are not yet secured. What's stopping it? When we pay five years advance advances to other producers abroad and we do not pay Czech producers in the Czech Republic? Does this mean that Czech taxpayers' money is to be used to ensure the existence and survival of economic difficulties for businesses abroad, and for Czech companies, including the state enterprise LOM, namely the Malešice Aviation Repair Company, should not such funds be provided? So that the Czech taxpayer will ensure the prosperity of businesses abroad, but will not be there for its own companies? That is not clear to me and I do not want to be clear, because I consider it to be a matter contrary to the Czech national interests, contrary to the needs of the Czech economy, contrary to the needs of the Army of the Czech Republic in such a way that it is able to be combatable and able to fulfil its obligations under the treaties that we have alliedly concluded. [[10.10 hours]] It seemed stupid to me, too, because the deposit paid for the purchase of Bell Viper helicopters is basically not ensured that LOM Praha is a service place for service. We have a sad experience from purchases in Spain, when military transport aircraft are serviced by the manufacturer, not in the Czech Republic, and this obviously causes us financial difficulties, but also organizational problems. And the last question that had to do with it, and when it wasn't actually possible to solve it without the Secretary of Defense, is how the Ministry of Defence wanted to provide military aviation training for the abolition of a school air base, because if the school air base had no aircraft, it wouldn't have been a school in the sense that we have. It is evident that the Czech aviation industry belongs to the world's top. Our planes, which are more than 3,000 around the world, those trainers, serve the military for training, namely the armies of all the states with which we have agreements. So I am convinced that this interpelation is meaningful for two reasons: from the perspective of the Czech Army's own fighting capacity and from the point of view of the use of Czech taxpayers' funds at home and abroad. Therefore, I suggest that this interpelration be interrupted in the presence of the Ministry of Defence, with the fact that I would like the Minister of Defence to answer those questions in a different way than he answered me in his written reply, because there are things in it that are completely contrary to the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u38	Thank you, I'm registering the procedural proposal. Before it was made, Mr Lipavskýý made a point of fact, so I will let him react, and then we would vote on the procedural proposal, if necessary, because there is sufficient presence in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. It's really a parade of complete cynicism, what the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, has shown here, so that a man whose political party stomped and claimed to take 10 billion from the army's budget for this year, then weeping about how no new technique is being made. I find that absolutely insane. And what's even crazier comes up is unbiased lobbying. Vice-President Vojtěch, through the President, do you find it dignified to be the advertising mascot of OMNIPOL? I've even seen on the Internet that you've been photographed in a L-39NG mask outside the KSČM headquarters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u40	Ambassador, I feel obliged to call you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u41	Excuse me, I'm responding to the factual point of view of Mr Vojtěch's contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u42	I understand, but I'm calling you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u43	So it's just really disgusting cynicism that we've witnessed here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u44	Thank you. Now I do not know how to proceed because I have announced the vote, but Mr Staněk has made a point of fact. So we will probably continue the debate for a while, if no one objects, then we would vote on the interruption. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u45	I know that I cannot respond by a factual point to a factual point, so I will not respond to the factual remark made by Mr Lipavský, by you, Mr President. I don't know, but I understood the performance completely differently. I understood this speech as a defence of the interests of the Czech defence and security industry, which really suffers from the fact that it has no chance of getting advance payments unlike foreign companies, and it is not just OMNIPOL that has been mentioned here. I have had several communications with representatives of the defence and security industry in Moravia, namely companies such as Meopta and others who simply have a problem with the fact that they do not have a chance to get to the contracts in a certain way so that they have the following references and can export great materials abroad. So this is how I understood the remark made by my colleague, Mr Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u46	Thank you. Mr Lipavský is still making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to former Minister Vojtěch Filip, Mr... [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Well, I'm in the middle of it. However, I would like to apologise to Mr Vojtěch, but of course I meant Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u48	Thank you. So at this point, we would vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of Minister Metnar, if I have correctly noted this, the proposal. I see there's enough of us logged in. I've begun. There's no one else running. I can see the gentlemen of the House, so I'll wait a little longer so they can participate. We will vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote order number 76 68 Members and Members are registered, for 52, against no one. I am of the opinion that we have interrupted this interpellation, and I can return the chairing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u49	We will continue, ladies and gentlemen, by interpolating Mr Jan Farský to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. The Minister is not present, Mr Farský is present, please open the debate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u50	Thank you for the floor. Since the personal presence of the Minister for this interpelation is appropriate, to the extent necessary, I would like to ask for the interruption of this interpelation in the presence of the Minister, in this case the Minister for Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u51	Thank you. The proposal is clear. We will decide in the vote order number 77 on the proposal to interrupt the presence of the Minister of Transport and Vice-President of the Government of Karel Havlíček. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of Mr Jan Farský's proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 77 of 68 for 55, against no one. The proposal was adopted and we interrupted the discussion of this interpellation. Another proposal is the interpelation of Mr Jan Skopeček, who intersected the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar, who answered him. The answer is in print 1154. I am opening up a debate on this, and Mr Skopeček is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u52	Thank you very much. I should have expressed my ambition to disagree with the written questioning, to explain to the Minister why. It is a tender for the post of Director of the Army Sports Centre Dukla. In this selection procedure, the Ministry laid down inconclusive conditions for the selection procedure, including the achievement of language education. Unfortunately, the winning candidate did not achieve this, yet he was chosen. In my opinion, the tendering procedure should have been cancelled because none of the applicants met the conditions. However, since there is no point in discussing this without the Minister, I would also like to interrupt this interpelation until his presence in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u53	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Skopečka. Anyone reporting for the debate? It's not like that. I'm going to vote on a motion to suspend, in the 78 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In vote 78 of 68 present for 55, against no one. Also the discussion of this response to written interpelation was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. Before we continue, I state the apology of the President of the Chamber of Deputies for today, for reasons of work, the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman, apologizes. We have a decision before us that could not be made at 9 o'clock, and it is a decision to interrupt the press hearing that we have here. Interpelation of Pavel Žáček on Andrej Babiš, print 1132 - here was a proposal for interruption. We are voting in the number 79 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of Mr Žáček's proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 79 of 68 for 49, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another motion for interruption from Mr Jan Lipavský to the press 1125. This is an answer to the written interpelation made by the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. We will decide in the 80 vote that I have launched, and I ask, who is in favour of the interruption proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 80 of 68 for 53, against no one. The discussion of this reply to the written question was also interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade. It is now another press of 1124 and it is the answer of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to the interpelation of Jan Lipavský, where there is also a proposal to interrupt the hearing. We'll decide in the 81 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 81 of the 69 present for 51 Members, against no one. The motion was accepted. Even press hearing 1124 was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Mr Marek Novák's interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the press 1115 is another interrupted response to the written interview. We will decide on the motion to interrupt the Madam Secretary's presence in the vote number 82 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 82 out of 69 present for 58, against no one. The motion was accepted. The discussion of this written interpelation was also interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. And the last proposal to interrupt is the proposal by Mr Jakub Janda, who intersected the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček on the navigation of the Odra River. It's printing 1110. We will decide on the 83 vote that I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 83 of 70 for 56, against no one. This press has also been suspended. In doing so, we have exhausted the answers to the written interpelations of Members from the Ministers of the Government and from the Prime Minister, and we should now address further points, according to the approved agenda. But we don't have any points on the 87th session for the period from 9 to 11, so I'm going to interrupt the 87th meeting with the fact that the 89 Chamber of Deputies meeting will be convened at 11 o'clock, where the item of this meeting will be discussed. We'll be back at the 87th meeting at 14.30 at the oral interviews, as was said in the morning, which you can register for by 11.30. Thank you, and I'll meet you at 11 o'clock for the 89th meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-001-486.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the adjourned 87th session of the Chamber of Deputies. To record your involvement, I've checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards because of the interruption. Otherwise, the replacement cards and their numbers are valid as recorded at the 89th meeting. If anyone else has a card, let me know. We will now continue to discuss this point.
