ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for a Law on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of COVID-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Laws /Departmental Document 1158/2/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill on amendments, his resolution was delivered as a House press of 1158/3. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Mr Roman Kraus among us, he is already here. [[Senator]] And I ask that the Minister of Health Jan Blatný speak first for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments to be tabled. I will also ask that the rapporteurs of the guarantee committees be prepared, and since my colleague Válek is excused, then I will ask that the guarantee committee, the health committee, nominate someone so that we can hear the committee's report. [[There's noise in the room.]] I will ask the House for peace and Minister Jan Blatný to speak. But the noise here is too much. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your place as determined in the sitting order, or move the debates into the foyer, so that the Minister of Health Jan Blatný can present his word in a dignified atmosphere for the outcome of the sitting in the Senate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to come before you again today with a proposal for the so-called pandemic law, this time after the Senate meeting, which decided to return it on Wednesday evening to the Chamber of Deputies with its proposal for amendments. [[11.40 hours]] The Senate proposes to approve the law with a regulation which clearly states that measures under the pandemic law can only be ordered in the duration of the pandemic emergency situation and will expire. The same scheme is proposed for area measures pursuant to § 69 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (i) a law on the protection of public health which may restrict travel and transport, carry out various events or close schools, accommodation facilities or catering facilities. I consider this proposal, which actually builds a tight regime of emergency measures precisely in relation to the existence of pandemic readiness, to be beneficial and I can agree with it. Furthermore, the Senate proposes to make the issue of emergency measures conditional on regional sanitation stations under this law by prior approval of the government. As is the case with measures ordered by the Ministry of Health. I can also support this change. I would therefore ask you now to support the so-called pandemic law in the form approved by the Senate by your vote. Thank you for your attention and support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Minister of Health, Jan Blatný, and I will now ask Senator Roman Kraus to take the floor and inform us of the hearing in the Senate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this so-called pandemic law was returned to the Chamber of Deputies on 24 February 2021 by decision of the Senate, resolution 117, as amended by the amendments adopted. Now briefly to the legislative process. The Chamber of Deputies passed the bill 19. 2. The Senate and the Senate's Organising Committee have ordered this law to the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee and Committee on Constitutional Law. Both committees discussed this draft law on 24 February. The Health Guarantee Committee recommended the Senate to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with relevant amendments, as well as the Constitutional Committee. There, the amendments were substantially more extensive and concerned § 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17 and 21. Subsequently, the bill was dealt with by the Senate, which on the same day, meaning 24 February, at its 6th meeting decided to discuss the procedure in a shortened procedure. The amendments of the Committee on Health have been approved without any problems; the amendments of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which differed from those submitted in points 6 to 21 above, have not been approved. Further amendments have been tabled by Senator Láska and Senator Wagenknecht. These amendments have not been approved either. So the law gets back to you on the next decision with the amendments to the Health Committee. In the final vote of the Senate plenary, this proposal was adopted with amendments by 58 votes out of 72 present, 6 senators opposed. The paragraphs of these amendments are in front of you in the material we have sent you. And I would just briefly comment on the proposed changes, as Minister Blatný has already explained. We added to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) in addition to the word "prohibition" and the impossibility of limiting meetings, meetings and similar actions of constitutional authorities, public authorities, courts, etc., because we certainly thought it necessary to hold these meetings without any restrictions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 there, in my opinion, the key is that all these extraordinary measures can only be issued in the state of pandemic emergency, which did not initially depart from this text. The third amendment is to § 3, par. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The original version was that the government only approved the measures, issued by the Ministry of Health, but not by regional sanitation stations, and we wanted to avoid the possibility that they might occur - I do not think that this would happen, but the potential danger was - that more sanitary stations in the Czech Republic would agree and declare the same extraordinary measures and restrictions, and that it would be good that even these regional health stations decisions should be controlled by the government. The other two changes in Sections 8 and 16 are more or less formal. In one we changed the fall of the word "execution" to "execution." In the latter, we only added to the list the municipalities with the authority of the municipal authority. So it's more of a technical change. I think that the proposal that we have returned with the amendments is conformal to all the negotiations that preceded it, that it will allow the Ministry of Health, regional health stations and others outside of emergency to implement almost all measures that it will be a good tool for us to manage this situation with COVID-19 disease, and that it is a powerful enough tool to do so. Therefore, I beg you to approve our rejoined proposal with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u5	I thank the senator for his performance. And before we proceed, I state the apology of Mr Marian Bojek from 9 to 11.45 from today's meeting. He's here. At the same time, I warn him, as well as a colleague of the Volný, Lubomír the Volný, that they do not have their mouths and noses covered, that they therefore violate government orders. And I ask them to start acting according to their constitutional oaths, which means that they will comply with the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic, and I give them a reminder. My colleague Válek is not here as rapporteur, so I am asking the Chair of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, if she is interested in speaking in the debate. It's not like that. We can therefore proceed to our own debate. First of all, Vice-President Tomio Okamura, I see the application made by the President of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek, but only after his colleague Feri, who has the same priority right when a colleague Válek is not present. Mr Vice-President, I'm not going to give you my word yet, and I'm going to ask the House for peace again! I will repeat once again that it is necessary for you to settle in your seats and any debates on a subject other than the press of 1158, to move into the foyer. I'm gonna wait till the rumpus melts. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to be voting here again today on the so-called pandemic law, which is basically and in principle just another otherwise named emergency situation for the next year. This is it, we're voting, and we're voting on the so-called Senate return. So let me remind you who voted for the pandemic law here in the House last week. The only MP who voted against the pandemic law was the SPD. For this pandemic law, which, as I have already said, is basically an otherwise named emergency situation for the next year, for here in the House, the members of the Pirates, ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL, and as far as the KSČM member club is concerned, have also voted in addition to the ANO and ČSSD movement. That means they didn't actively vote against it. [[11.50 hours]] I repeat the reasons why the SPD movement and the SPD parliamentary club as the only parliamentary club in the Chamber of Deputies did not support this law: because three of our main comments have not been incorporated. Firstly, we wanted control to take place, to be closely controlled by the Chamber of Deputies, and we proposed that every 14 days the Chamber of Deputies had to vote on government measures and discuss them. That didn't work there. The second point is that, at the same time as the measures, the government must propose compensation. We were gonna put that sentence in there. The SPD movement pushed for this sentence to be there, so that, at the same time as the measures, the government had to propose compensation. And once again, it wasn't incorporated. And thirdly, we wanted the measures to have to be explained in detail and intelligibly, not just somewhere on the Ministry of Health's website, which I can't imagine maybe 80-year-old citizens looking for anything there. And once again, it has not been sufficiently worked out, and it is precisely that the government, along with the measures, does not propose compensation, one of the biggest problems of the current state, that people have no money, companies are failing, people are losing their jobs, and that the measures are not explained in detail, intelligibly and trustworthyly. That's one of the biggest problems of the government we've ever had. The SPD's proposals have not been incorporated, so it has actually been confirmed that this is only an otherwise-named emergency situation. So the SPD movement will not support this pandemic law. We will not vote in favour, nor will we change our consistent position, so we will oppose it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u7	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now a factual comment by Zdeněk Ondráček. Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared with priority rights and then Jakub Michálek with priority rights. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I will take the liberty of actually responding to Vice-President Okamura in that list of who voted. Mr Vice-President, I understand, of course, that it is beyond discernment for you whether anyone votes in favour, against or abstains. But please tell the truth. You voted against, but show me the only KSČM Member who voted in favour. So please don't tell me that the KSČM voted for the pandemic law. You're lying!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u9	Have a nice day. Now with priority rights, Mr Dominik Feri as Vice-President of the Club. And Mr Jakub Michálek will prepare for the pirát and then Mr Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Mr Senator, I regard the pandemic law as a result of a very fragile political agreement and I am very pleased that the government has cooperated with the opposition. The Senate has played a very good role because it has managed to eliminate the legislative technical deficiency, if that is what I can call it, and it is a good thing that this proposal is coming back here in this form. On the other hand, I must say that we are in a slightly different situation than what we were in when we started negotiations on this draft, namely there is a request for an extension of the emergency situation or, respectively, whether the government is going to declare a new emergency state. We're gonna pass the pandemic law here today. And when I say this completely flat, we're going to pass a law here that is very likely, if that's still true what the Minister of Health mentioned at the meeting that we just had, that actually there will be three parallel systems. One inactive, that'll be the pandemic law. Measures will still be declared under crisis law, which means they will be emergency measures. And there's gonna be a law on public health. And please keep that in mind. I'd like the Minister to explain. So when we pass the pandemic law here, and we agree that we want it, because it is not just an equal to the emergency situation, there are some guarantees that we consider necessary, for example, that it will be justified, that there will be some adjustment for damages, that we need to - I don't know, if it has also become a broader acquaintance - that any of us Members and Senators will be able to request information first, and I think that is very good: if you are asked by citizens, I don't know when something opens up or how this trade is affected by the measure, then the Ministry will have to give a priority to reply within 14 days. But I don't understand why, if we passed the pandemic law, some of those current crisis measures could not be declared under the pandemic law? Why doesn't the D.O.D. want that? Why doesn't he want to give all the entrepreneurs he's shut down the shops a clear clue that they can in some regime that has been designated and isn't as vague as it is in the crisis law that they can ask for the damages? It would be good for me, regardless of the fact that the measures under the pandemic law will have to be explained in more detail. That means, for what reason does the government want the hardest caliber, that means emergency measures in an emergency, and it doesn't use the pandemic law? That's really what we're doing here, 'cause the law's gonna lie down. I understand that the hardest or strongest caliber is the emergency, then there's the pandemic law, and then there's the Public Health Act. But why don't we use the pandemic law if we have it? For us, we will support the Senate's return. Like I said, I think it's a good adjustment, and at that time, it was as much as possible. On the other hand, when we've adopted something, let's not make a law for the law here, but let the Ministry say so. Yeah, well, let's rewrite it, and he'll do it. But it's not like it just says, "We're gonna have an emergency, or the government's gonna call it an emergency, and everything's gonna go back to normal." We're really here that week after it's been like this, they've actually spent nothing, even if maybe the time of the pandemic law comes in a month or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u11	Now with priority rights Chairman of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek. I'll read two apologies. Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologizes today because of illness and then she apologizes for work reasons, Mr Jan Volný. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic law really is no salvation. But what is it? It's a long-term rest we've had here for over a year. In Germany, the pandemic law was adopted in March. And what's happening now? Now we're having a health crisis because we let it go, and in Germany, where they handled it, they had a pandemic law, so now we're taking some of our hospitalized. The pandemic law is about softer measures. Maybe if we had him, we'd be better off right now, and we'll definitely need him in the future when we're relaxing. So it's not true that nothing's gonna change. The law is simply objectively necessary. The result is certainly not perfect, especially the question of how the government dealt with compensation. There I feel a deficit because it was really appropriate to pay at least part of the compensation on an ongoing basis. Of course, this isn't about paying off lost profits, it's not about paying off all companies lost profits from taxpayers' money, but at the same time, there should be some amount. The procedure of the Ministry of Interior, when they rejected all requests, all damages, I think it's inadequate. The pandemic law itself is certainly better than nothing but rejecting it now. Because if we reject it, the tradesmen will get a clean zero in a non-pandemic regime, without a crisis law, if there was nothing, because the Public Health Act will apply, which assumes that the State does not pay the costs at all. I think that is why it is desirable for the pandemic law to be passed. And I wanted to thank the senators for correcting the shortcomings that were there, and in the form in which he was transferred from the Senate, we will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u13	Mr Marek Výborný on behalf of the KDU-ČSL and then Mr Milan Brázdil will be prepared. The MP's on his way. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues, I will be very short. Opinion of KDU-ČSL: We have clearly declared here last week that we have welcomed the possibility of agreement and agreement with the government after many months. We actively participated in the creation of the pandemic law. Once again, I thank the Minister of Health for his cooperation and cooperation. We believe that this is precisely the regime that we may not use, or the government will not use in the days immediately following, but one day the situation will come when we will break the epidemic and when we will be moving to normal. And then it will be necessary to use this pandemic law and the state of the pandemic emergency, where citizens' rights and freedoms will be more investigated. [[12.00 hours]] Unfortunately, we also fully respect the fact that, as the law here was made up of - indeed within the time limits of several tens of hours - some mistakes were made in the original House version. The most serious was the conflict between Sections 1 and 2, when the health minister's measures could in fact continue to apply even after the House agreed to terminate the pandemic emergency or pandemic state. That needs to be fixed. The senators have noticed correctly. It is good that, in this sense, even the upper chamber has worked as a guarantee that we do not put in legal order something that is obviously so problematic. And I thank the House and the House for meeting so quickly, although, of course, the situation surrounding pandemics and data has changed dramatically during the week and it seems that the original state or original vision that we will be able to follow this law and pandemic emergency from Saturday to Sunday will not be possible. Nevertheless, it is important that we have this legislative framework - because we are really talking about the boundaries here, about decoying the playground for executives, for the Ministry of Health and for the government - so that we can have it here in the future. Therefore, KDU-ČSL, our MP's club, will support the version of this law as referred to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u15	Mr Milan Brázdil will now speak in the general debate. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Oh, you're going to change. [[Ambassador Brázdil is wearing the vest of the medical emergency services.]] Then we'll give you some space to wear your vest. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues, colleagues, everyone who can hear me. Let me come before you not as an MP, he is at the bottom of the hierarchy of people's seriousness, but as a paramedic - a paramedic who is at the top. I want to perform apolitically, and I want to perform here in the overalls. We don't have any pretty representative uniforms as firemen and cops, we're in this. Don't worry, Minister, it's not infectious, it's washed, there's nothing to worry about. Anyway, do you know who's scared? That's what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid of death. I'm afraid of getting sick. You know why? Because I'm not vaccinated. I'd like to be vaccinated. Why am I not vaccinated? Because I'm afraid of the media. As a doctor who has some time in the rescue service, I could be vaccinated, but at the same time I'm an MP, and that suits all the media that degenerates us, who sooner, who later, how come you're vaccinated. So I didn't do it, I got worried they'd drag me around the media and make a fool of me, so I just didn't do it. And I'm scared, I'm afraid I'm gonna be infectious, I'm gonna spread it. Anyway, I'm trying to act rationally, trying to behave without infecting and infecting anyone else. And with that, I come up with a completely apolitical thing: prevention. We know three R's, I'll just repeat them easily. The drapes, or rather the respirators. We all know about this. There are rejections, they don't want it. Okay, well, there's nothing I can do about it, they're just not gonna do it, maybe the police will be more aggressive with them right now to do it. But what I'm saying is, these people, if they don't want it, they could at least handle the other R, and that's the spacing. It doesn't cost anything. If we move on from each other and we prefer someone to buy, and then I'll have a little bit of time again, just spread out, and then later the drip gets to me and maybe I won't be infected and I'll be healthy. The third R is, and we all know it's hands, hands, hands full of calluses, or cracked hands, but also noble hands to be clean. Jesus, we've discovered America! Clean, please, but it's not pure in the sense that I wash my hand with soap. These hands end up somewhere, they're not just palms, and those hands have some surfaces, four surfaces, and the last one's on the tip, and we should wash our hands. How simple, it doesn't cost anything, anyone can do it and help themselves and someone else. Very neglected prevention is the eyes. In the beginning it was: we have to wear eye protection. Yes, we wear hats like that. The eyes have conjunctiva or conjunctiva bag and there is a large area to be infected. What can we do? Oh, please, everyone's allergic. Let's wash our eyes clean with our hands. Let's wash them repeatedly, wash them down. Maybe we'll get a small charge with the conjunctiva bag. This is outside the mucous membranes another way of entry, and it is outside the mucous membranes of the nose and mouth. Hygiene - mouth: please, we all think it ends by brushing our teeth. It's not over, that's where it starts. We continue by gargling, more often gargling, mouthwash gargling, anything gargling, and we should look after our mucous membranes: the sinuses of the nose and mouth cavity. And that's because there won't be that many microbes, bacteria, and therefore viruses on the healthy mucous membranes. What am I gonna do? Well, by moistening the environment in which I'll sleep, in a cold environment, that is, care for these mucous membranes. Coughing: how many of you, how many of us can cough? Guys, it's not like without a drape, if I have to cough and eat right now, I'm gonna put my hands in my face and cough in my hands, in my palms. That's wrong! Then you go, you reach somewhere with your hands and spread it around. And all you have to do is cough on the dorso side and then, of course, go wash with the palms, open the doorknob, open all sorts of things, and I don't actually infect anymore. We don't give a shit about the dorso side before your palm. Purge of language: almost no one thinks about it, nor have I heard it. Cleaning our mouths with a toothbrush, that's fine, but then you'd have to take care of your tongue in some way. The tongue's so hunchy, it's got the olakurs, and so on, I'm not gonna go into the details, but it's some sort of ordinary, sharp scraper type, I don't know, ice cream wood, I'm gonna wipe my tongue so I can keep it clean - and look what you can find there. So the next one is language care. Nose lavage: no one says that at all. Please, our nose, mucous membranes, of course, needs to be clean, yet it is enough that we take a bottle of sports several times a day and flush ourselves with salt water, a teaspoon in two blankets, without pressure in one hole and leave it to drip, and suddenly you are much, much better and you may be more healthy. These are the things that have been said here all the time, that we're constantly dealing with the bans, we want to limit people's freedom. This will set everyone free and do it, it costs nothing. Correct spruce: yes, correct spruce. Imagine that our nation - I don't know why it doesn't learn, a few of us can smell. Please, the smell is not so that you take your nostrils into your thumb and into your index finger and pinch, push, push, push, push, push, that's wrong. You're pushing the whole secretion, often even into the paranasal sinuses - a larger area, a larger charge. And suddenly it makes the disease worse. It is blown by evacuating the nostril with one finger from one hole and the other finger from the other hole. And that's right, and then we don't stuff it into our paranasal sinuses, and we probably don't get sick or end up in the ICU somewhere. [[12.10 hours]] Very simple what anyone can use is UV radiation. You've got it at home. It's a mountain sun. Somebody's got it, somebody's got it. Mountain sun, that's actually a substitute for not being able to go to sea somewhere. Let's use it. This UV radiation is not only something like a germicide that destroys bacteria and viruses, but it is also something that creates vitamin D on your skin, and it is positive for handling this disease. And another one, please: hardening. There's a big wave, people are hardening. Let us harden ourselves and try to take care of our health even by going to the sauna when we can, within all the rules. If I have my sauna, let's go to Finnish and all that. Let's play sports. Let us build our positive health, as far as we can, within the rules. Let's go for walks. Let's do everything we can to be... And that's another, let's take care of our own psychology. The fact that we're gonna survive this eventually, but we're gonna be unhappy, we're not gonna get endorphins from being here in this world, and we're gonna love it, so it's not good either. Let's do this the way we can. Read it, go for walks. Let's do whatever you can because it'll lead you to happiness, and that's what's affecting you, the psyche, and your health. We all know the testing, I won't talk about this for long. By the way, my classmate is Roman Prymula, and I really appreciate him, and he certainly talked a lot about how important it is to test, but please, testing is not a medical procedure. That doesn't mean you're cured, even if you're positive or negative. Testing is actually an attempt to isolate those who are positive and prevent the spread of covid. This is how you approach it, with all the mistakes it has, positive, negative. And the last one is vaccination. Yeah, that's the light at the end of the tunnel. I'm not going to talk about it here, I'm not fully involved in this to discuss the details, but I'm sure Professor Chlíbek, who I did a receiver in military medicine, will talk more about it. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, we are at war. We're at war and people are dying. I know a lot about it. I serve Saturdays, Sundays. And people die of covid, people die of covid, but also during covid or next to covid. I'd like to tell two stories. One is about... Yes, I won't be long. One story is a healthy lady, after the covid she's been through, a retired woman. She suddenly feels restless, goes to take a shower, and then she's so soulful, she needs an ambulance, resuscitation, a three-quarter-hour resuscitation in her overall outfit, and that's how the lady dies. And then there's another, another story that had no covid. These are people - I have two in the last weekend - and these people are taking lives. For me, they hanged each other twice. And the reason was because they weren't happy, they didn't see the light at the end of the tunnel. These people need to be taken care of, too. Psychosanitary, and if you don't know what to do, call, call for help. I'm done, I've been warned I'm long. I'm going to end with my whole life, my teenage and adult life, following one of the mottos I'm about to say, and that's that every endurance is a little attempt at eternity. Please, all of you, let's just stick around for a little while, try to stay here forever, and be healthy. So don't be mad that I may have been a little emotional, maybe from the point of view - no. It's something I wanted everyone to know that we have some measures that can help, and it doesn't have to be some draconian thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u17	He will now appear as another Member, Leo Luzar, and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor. Otherwise, I'll warn you that the meeting will continue without a lunch hour. We'll continue continuously. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I thank my speaker for his speech. It was particularly interesting from this point of view that he was an honored colleague from the government movement YES 2011. This government, which sits behind me, also has gros in the ANO 2011 movement. And do you notice how communication works within one movement? The KSČM has been asking the Minister of Health for the YES movement for six months to try to humanly explain to people what is going on in this society so that they do not have depressive conditions, so that they do not commit suicide, to see the light at the end of the tunnel, to use UV radiation, to use vitamins, to function on the basis of supportive medicines that have long been mentioned here, such as Isoprinosine and Ivermectin. But nothing, the government prefers to go to a press conference, it prefers to answer the questions of journalists who are chasing the sensation, instead of explaining to people in a normal, standard way in the reference time, what awaits them, what does not miss them. Part of the so-called pandemic law is this campaign, explaining to the citizens what is going on, because you cannot just order and sanction citizens, but you must also clearly explain to them why you are doing this. And unfortunately, this government does not do that, although I have already asked the Minister of Health four times on this microphone to use his gift to speak humanly to people and try to explain to them why it is important, why it has to be, so it still refuses. I don't know what's causing this, but today he's heard it from his own movement from a doctor who's completely right that he doesn't talk to these people and that it doesn't explain it to them. So hopefully he'll finally understand and start doing it, because the situation is really not good. As far as the law itself is concerned, the KSČM here in Parliament said that it is sewn with a hot needle, that it is wrong, that there are errors, and we even pointed out exactly the error that the Senate has now returned to us. I am here to quote my previous speaker, the Honorable Marek the Výborný, by your means, who has pleaded here, begging himself that it is not what we say it is, that the amendment was a consensus, that it was not a few politicians at various meetings, and he said: "I speak now for KDU-ČSL, I speak for AntiCovid's ODS team, political parties TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. We have a number of other experts, consultants within our professional platform, including in the field of crisis legislation, health legislation, and indeed in this sense our initiatives have been prepared by experts and not as you have said here." End of quote. So, Mr Výborný, by your means, Mr President, where are your expert and clearly declared outputs? It turns out that the law is sewn with a hot needle, that it's unconceptionable, that there are serious mistakes. The only thing that made you vote in favour was the concessions of the government that appeared there in the business community and in the colleagues of the pirát in the information technology that got there, even though I don't think they should be in the pandemic law. The pandemic law is to be clearly declaratory and to set out for citizens what is necessary and not to deal with how information will travel, or how what will be compensated, because the impact of this pandemic law on citizens will be different, and the individual things that are there cannot be dealt with in such a specific way. It was ignored. That's why we have this proposal again. And here I can say that the KSČM has not changed its view of this law. The law is poor quality, it is sewn with a hot needle and it is created on order, a political order, and it does not deserve the citizens of the Czech Republic to follow a law that is illogical and bad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u19	Now I'll read the apology. Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologizes for her illness. Let's keep going. Mr Václav Klaus now has the floor and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, for Tricolor, I will speak to the pandemic law. The tricolor will not support either the Senate version or the original House version. We believe that this is just another name for an emergency. Here part of the opposition in some attempt to have a pie and at the same time eat it is trying to rise up against an emergency, but at the same time in some way to support it. I'm talking about Pirates, ODS and other parties. I think it's a position that is inherently unsustainable. You're shielding yourself with businessmen. There are million-dollar fines in the pandemic law, of course for entrepreneurs, there are huge fines for individuals, and any compensation - I'll tell you how this is going to go down. Politicians' friends, they might get some compensation, another tens of thousands you refer to the court. Our experts made it clear when tens of thousands suddenly turn to court to claim compensation, how it would look in practice, how much anyone would get. Nothing, according to our conviction. We think that the Czech Republic has enough crisis laws, we have an emergency state according to one type of law, according to the other and so on, so there is no problem. The last thing we need is some new legislation that someone here negotiated at 2:00 a.m. in a hot political meeting. I don't think he's the answer. Plus, as we're following the situation now, it's not enough for the government itself, or the pandemic law can't work. If I have the floor, I'll say the present situation. Over the past year, we have approved two deficit budgets in a total loss of 1,000 billion, we have 20,000 dead, the longest closed schools in Europe, tens of thousands of people in huge economic problems, hundreds of thousands of others surviving only on some temporary government support. So after a year like this, according to the government, we are on the verge of a medical disaster. Instead of admitting the fact that the strategy has not been successful, there is an effort to continue along the same path, the path of lockdown and passivity. Tricolor has a different opinion in the long run. We think that we must face the crisis actively - through activity, production, increasing the number of medical personnel and aids, our own production of, for example, a licensed vaccine, increasing tracking and testing at workplaces and elsewhere, active efforts to search for the most effective drugs and their standardisation, not only to rely on the vaccine, to learn from the company's failure to protect the most endangered, which were the homes of seniors, from which almost a quarter or more of the dead are recruited, not to wait passively as a company to shut down at home. We believe that leaving protection on our own companies cannot produce worse results. Firms will certainly not take worse measures or with less interest than the government itself. Of course, I expect many of you to condemn what I said here, but if you read yesterday's statement by Austrian Chancellor Kurz, it is not very different. I have a relatively similar opinion. What I find the worst is trying to find scapegoats in the current difficult situation that I see in many of you - trying to get out of this situation...: to point out to someone: It's his fault. I think it's unacceptable and undignified. If I wanted to be funny, the first thing I saw today when I went to the House was Minister Hamáček without a drape smoking with about 12 other people. I could point to someone, too, but of course it's not a solution to the situation. But I don't want to talk about this. So much for the pandemic law, and I'm sorry, I still have to comment on an incident that took place here at about 11:10 p.m. As Chairman of the Tricolore and a man, I must stand up for my colleague. We've all had a feverish discussion here, when Mr. Volný here was playing for a microphone and acting undignified and uncoordinatedly with respectable behavior. At 11:10 p.m., Mr. Okamura here yelled dirty at our colleague Tereza Hyťhová, forbade his sidekick to talk to her, and when I came to the House, I found a colleague in tears. I think that rudeness towards women is exactly the same thing behind the edge of civil coexistence, and I think it's supposed to be addressed by the mandate and immune committee. If there is a common relationship with women in some Asian cultures, I would like to call on you to do so by your means that you are here in the Czech Republic and act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u21	Well, thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot express myself from my position as chairman, but I have not spoken to Mrs Hyťhová at all today, and I have only spoken to our Member, Mr Maříková, so it would be good for you to stop making up stories and lie directly. I don't get this at all, and I'm... I don't understand this at all, I don't understand it. I didn't even talk to your Member, I didn't even look at her today. So that's it. And on, so I'm gonna go back to managing the meeting. A real point, but I really can't react because I'm in charge of a meeting and I don't have anyone to replace me or I don't want to react to that anymore. I think I've already said that, but I'm making a point. So you don't want to go into de facto? Okay. So Mr. MP Lubomír Volný gets... yeah, you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u22	I think that's why we have a mandate and an immune committee to deal with it. It was said that Mrs Hyťhová wrote on social media that you lied in the House about being the only ones who didn't support the pandemic law. But we're not going to dissect this place either on the basis of factual remarks or on the basis of your talking from the counter. We want to deal with it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u23	Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what Mr. Klaus is trying to do here. In such a difficult situation, when we're discussing a rather important material here, he's dealing with his personal emotions here. I don't think that's appropriate. Let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u25	Next - I have already said this - Mr Lubomír Volný will be next. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to call on both the President of the Chamber of Deputies and all the other Vice-Presidents to stop breaking the law and abuse their powers by giving me a warning because I do not wear a mask. It wasn't me who approved the regulation of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic from 22. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. Article 4 (1) (a) (n) the author of this Regulation has granted an exception to constitutional officials. So it's not my fault, complain to the Department of Health and don't remind me anymore, because in that case I will also present your behavior as a complaint to the mandate and immune committee, because this admonition is an abuse of your authority. Now I'm going to make a statement on the pandemic law. This pandemic law is one of the reasons why our non- parole committee was formed on COVID-19. Authors of this law and people who are responsible for at least three quarters of all 19,000 victims died in the Czech Republic, we will try to drive them to justice in legal and legal ways. In this country, 19,000 people have already died on the basis of the government's measures. In Belarus, which is the same size, it has 10 million inhabitants, 1,900 people died. Everything is open in Belarus, they go for fun, the economy works and they have a tenth, 10 percent, victims compared to the Czech Republic. It's a statistical fact you can't run away from. The measures that have been implemented here have been implemented wrong, stupidly, inefficient and murdering people. I am already convinced that the government of the Czech Republic is not made up of stupid people, I am convinced that stupid people do not work at the Ministry of Health, I am convinced that neither of the health ministers was a stupid person, I am convinced that the Prime Minister of this country is not a stupid person. I see intent behind this, and I accuse this country's government of mass murder. We will do everything in our power to hold them accountable, because those numbers are clear and simple. [[12.30 hours]] At present, 30 studies have been conducted on a drug called Ivermectin. Some doctors have been using this medicine secretly to treat the victims of covid since June, July last year, as well as secretly using Isoprinosine, which they carry from Poland and put it in the form of syrup to the sick in tea. Secretly treating doctors, secretly treating nurses. And that's why, even though we have more patients than in Germany, we have fewer deaths, because the Prussian system, when a German doctor simply doesn't give you a cure that isn't allowed, our doctors - luckily for patients - went around. And it is probably not a coincidence that the first mention of the use of Ivermectin came from Slovakia, where doctors could no longer look at dying patients, tried this medicine on them and are currently saving three-quarters to 90 percent of all those affected with it. This law on COVID-19 is completely useless, because we can solve the covid crisis in two to three weeks. All it takes is for this government to stop wanting to kill the people of this country in the name of its business. Today, the Prime Minister of this government, who, instead of being able to legalize Ivermectin within 04 days, has done so with Remdesivir -- I call on all of you at home on TV screens, I call on all of you who have stayed here, find Remdesivir on Wikipedia, my colleague, through the President, without a smile -- on October 14 or 15, the state authorities of the Czech Republic have asked for the use of... well, what is it called... [[He's looking across the street at the bench.]] Remdesivir and at the end of March this medicine was given to the first patient in 14 days in the name of business, when one dose cost - or one treatment cost - 2,000 euros, so it went in 14 days. Now that we have a drug that sells at the Asian markets for 1.50 a tablet, the Prime Minister is doing a $25,000 commercial on TV. And now I don't know if I'm gonna read the title correctly - Bamlanivimab. So we will pay CZK 25,000 for Bamlanivimab instead of paying CZK 150 for Ivermectin. You're asking why? Think about the fact that both YES and ČSSD are falling preferences. The YES movement decreases preferences in such a way that it is unlikely that it will not win the election. ČSSD has fallen in such a way that it is unlikely to be in the next Chamber of Deputies. And they're still continuing this suicide policy, at least politically. They ignore all the research that exists. And we've decided with our non- parole board that we're going to hold them accountable. That means, Minister, that you will receive all information from us about Isoprinosin, about Ivermektin, so that you can never defend yourself by not knowing it. The same information will be given to the Prime Minister of this government, the same information will be given to Minister Hamáček, the same information will be given to all ministers of this government. And I'm really curious to see how you're going to explain to the police that even though you've been given information that it's a safe drug that's been administered to 3 billion and 700 million patients, it has practically no side effects, it's practically used globally from Brazil to India to Slovakia to us, so you haven't been able to do the same thing with that drug that I can't remember... What was it, Mariánek? Remdesivir. You've been able to approve that in 14 days. And today you're gonna be feeding us another experimental drug that hasn't had a proper clinical trial that we don't know anything about, which costs another 25,000 crowns instead of 150 crowns, and you're gonna treat our patients with it. Why? Well, in the name of business. Like the Prime Minister, he did not answer how many percent of the tests are carried out by companies that are commercially or personnelly linked to Agrofert. And here I am turning mainly to the ODS and the opposition to the democratic bloc. We've been here for three years, or two years, for sure, dealing with 50 million from Chapi's nest. For $50 million from Chapi's čapí, we meet here three or four times in particular? And you don't mind that maybe the Prime Minister is in such a conflict of interest that he's pumping 75 percent of the 25 billion? How come the pirát don't mind? The information was repeated here. The Prime Minister never answered her. How come the Pirates don't mind? Are you guys going to bed with YES after the next election? How come it's okay with the ODS? You have a huge problem with 50 million subsidies, and you don't mind doing tens of billions of crowns for a man who may be in a murderous conflict of interest because the Prime Minister won't kill for 50 million crowns, but for 20 billion, I wouldn't be so sure about that. As I said before, this law is useless, it has no reason to exist, because COVID-19 doesn't have to be here with us. But you're still gonna approve it. It will be approved by the democratic bloc, approved by the ČSSD, approved by YES. You're gonna approve it because you've been given an order, a party order, to approve this law. You will not act according to your parliamentary promise, but you will act like the parliamentary sheep because you have been given an order. And you will pass a law that will be amended to other diseases in the future, because you refused, you rejected an amendment that would really only make it a COVID-19 law. You said no. More diseases will come, this law will be used for further totalitarian strengthening of the power of the sanitary mafia, and all of you who raise your hand for it will be responsible. And all of you who raise your hand for it, in this case, you will become murderers because you will support what kills people in the Czech Republic. You're gonna have blood on your hands and you're gonna kill. Remember at least one moment when you thought purely and have not yet considered wanting to be Members. Remember the moment you were still normal, the moment you didn't want to kill people for a political career. Remember the moment you had a clear conscience, because there's a drug that's globally tested, and there's two of them. They're globally tested, they're safe. In three weeks, any crisis can be over and we can live as freely as in that dictator controlled by Belarus. Mr. Governor Vondrák, I'd like to point out that he needs to change his respirator because he just touched him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u27	I would only ask Members to address themselves through the President. Now, let's go - two factual points, and then Minister Lubomír Zaorálek came forward with priority rights. So, Mrs Barbora Kořanová and then Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] So Mrs Barbora Kořanová will perform, please, your two minutes and Mr Jiří Bláha will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must respond to my colleague, the Volný, through you. My colleague, I've been watching you lately. I listen to conversations with you and so on, and I have to say, you're not a pig. At least Pavel Novotný is a clown, but you're a dangerous psychopath. I ask the President or the Bureau of this House simply to do something about this, in violation of the fact that these two Members do not wear drapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u29	Mr Jiří Bláha, on the point of fact, will now be prepared - so far last - with priority rights, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, must respond to what we have just seen here, through Mr President. That's exactly why I've had a limited business for 12 months. People who go to work don't have jobs and we're losing tens of millions of crowns. Just because of these people, I can't do business freely because what we're experiencing here today isn't because there's a bad order that we didn't tell someone, but it's because we're all acting like pigs, that we can't tell ourselves that if we have an epidemic here, the only way we can stop her is by acting responsible to each other, by following what my colleague said about half an hour ago: masks, respirators, hands, disperses. The fact that half the nation doesn't deal with it or only deals with it at work, and once they come in front of the race gates, they don't follow anything, they meet everywhere from bus stations to facilities when they go to sports etc. etc., it's just a game of doing something, but we don't do anything. And that's why we're locked up. Not because we can't draw up a law here or agree that we're using this situation to score points, but it's only because we're acting irresponsiblely towards each other. And the Member, through Mr President, Volný is an example of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u31	Now a factual note - two applications. First, Mr Lubomír Volný, second, Mrs Zuzana Majerová and is still prepared with priority right by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u32	So, through you, for my colleague Bláha. I don't know where you are right now, but I think you can hear me. You know, if you lived in dictatorial Belarus, no one would shut you down. You've been locked up here by someone who caused 90 percent more casualties compared to the same great Bělorusko. Find out, Belarus - 1,900. There's hundreds of thousands of demonstrations after X months, there's no drapes, there's no separation. With us, the separations, the drapes, and those who follow the measures as much as possible, especially young people, end up in the infectious ward today, fighting for their lives because, for example, how much time do I have? I can do that - Mrs Martina Vašáková, President of the Czech pneumological and - I will not read it - society, I suppose the doctor and highly professional said clearly that the respirator can become a biological weapon, a biological bomb. Just like I've been telling you with my colleague Marian Bojek all year. People who are sick for two, three days don't know about it, but they're really sick, so even if they only wear one respirator for the last eight hours, they inflate them with viruses and then breathe them back in. And it's not Lubomír's Volný. This is the opinion of Mrs Martina Vašáková, President of the Czech pneumological Chamber or of the Society. I get it. I understand, my colleague, that she does not like it, because she will also have blood on her hands, but you do not study the opposing views of professionals in the field at all. You're still looking at the Volný who's applying the legal exception given to him by the Department of Health, by the way, no one's gonna do anything about it, but you're not studying opposing opinions, and that's why you're gonna have blood on your hands! [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u33	Now the factual point, Mrs Zuzana Majerová, and I have one more factual point here, is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Good day, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond to the previous speaker from YES and his particular sentence that we treat each other like pigs here. Speaking of pigs, it would be very good to mention who started it. And before you start calling people that and accusing people like that, you realize that just as in education, children are a reflection of their parents, so is society acting like those who preach to them. And we've been here nine months forbidding people from living and working. Every normal person, if something hadn't worked for nine months, changes strategy. Our change in strategy is that after nine months instead of one drape, we wear two. That's how a kid in kindergarten finds out! And I'm really begging you to title people around and people in general like that, because the tallest ones keep showing up in public that they preach water, but they drink wine! Because it's a good decision when your wallet's full! Especially those who are already down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u35	Now the factual point, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, is prepared - one more factual point, Mr Jiří Bláha. So please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, if we could take it down a notch in the rhetoric. I understand you haven't been here in the Chamber of Deputies for a week and you haven't seen the red light here, so you all need to show off in front of the press and in front of the TV, so take it easy on both sides. On the other hand, I really appreciate what Mr. Milan Brázdil said here, but on the other hand, also admit it, and let's just take a look at what Milan said and what we do here. We're gonna wipe the table here sometimes, but now there's five people in front of me. Everyone's been patting on their desks like this, after the speaker's desk. We touch microphones. We'd all be soaked up in a minute. We had an antigen test here last week. We have found that some colleagues have a positive outcome. We have colleagues here who are positive, who are in the hospital, or are in some kind of state. I don't remember those who are around them or working with them on the committee staying in quarantine or anywhere else. So, please, we're just like the factory. We want something from people, but we don't keep it here. If the government wants to do something next week and wants to ban us walking - or people walking - a kilometer, or at most to stay in the county, I'm already 14 days in a closed county, and you still don't have any results. So if you want to do this, cancel the Chamber of Deputies for three weeks, because we're just preaching to people what to do, but we're acting completely different! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u37	And now the last with priority rights is the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. I don't have any more applications. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for performing, and I hope you'll forgive me, but I can't say one thing. The problem of epidemic is not technocratic in this country and in the world, it is a cultural problem. When I say it's not technocratic, it's not up to us to perform here and talk about some miracle drugs and techniques and some... That's not our role. What is actually the most important thing is how we are able to behave in this epidemic, how culturally we behave in it. That's all that matters. Here are the different ones who read foreign articles and explore what the virus is acting on, and it's hard to say. But one thing is quite obvious, which can be put to the conclusion. The virus is very effective against companies that don't follow the rules. Where the rules don't follow, the virus just wins. I believe that even the professors who are here will agree with me on this. And you understand, every reckless behavior, even in this House, the non-compliance, that's actually the worst. The non-culturality that's happening here, the expressions that fly here, all this non-culturality is actually the biggest foot-cracker in the fight against the virus. You know, not the drug debate. This is neither our place, but what culture we present and what culture we try to persuade others to rule in this country. The Greek historian Herodotos, as early as the fifth century B.C.E., was one of the first - that was the father of history - began to talk about ethnicity being divided and different according to their tolerance to those who do not respect the rules. And it is unfortunately true that the Czech society is the one that belongs to Herodot, who is actually tolerated for breaking the rules. We see it almost every day. I can give you a number of examples here, and that's what really irritates you. Unfortunately, we're the ones who... [[12.50 hours]] I'm not saying we're bad. We also have the ability to improvise. This ability has to do with certain advantageous properties in evolution, but unfortunately, in an epidemic, it just sucks! This ability of us not to respect the rules, even to show off, you know, these ruthless things are turning on us today. If someone asks me why we're in a bad way, and I should answer that layman's question, I'll say it's a cultural problem. We just have it in us, breaking the rules. Even historical developments have led to this. And that's why I'm sorry that I reacted, even though it seems better to keep quiet - I understand, but I wanted to say it. This, this ruthlessness, this rude language, this inculture that also manifests itself here in the House, that's why the virus wins! It's a cultural problem, not a technocratic one! And I'm not saying this here to yell at you right now, but to thank the opposition, thank those who are handing us a hand against this non-culturality today. That's why I got off because the only chance you understand how to succeed in this culture... New Zealand. New Zealand is a country that has the same qualities as us in something. They also tend to break the rules, and they've been able to change that. They were able to create a very strict system. That means we, too, with our ability to improvise and disrespect the rules, should be able to say to ourselves: now it just can't, now these qualities are useless, now the rules have to be respected. And this is a role not only for the government, but also for the Houses, for all those who do politics today. And I am speaking to thank the opposition for the negotiations that have taken place today, thank you for the agreements that have been made, and for the fact that we may not be sitting here in vain today, because we will finally come to an agreement. They're compromises, that's our job. But that is what we must do today in Czech society, that we have agreed and that we prefer culturality against non-culturality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u39	The appearance of the Minister of Culture has aroused the Members' interest in the response, so I will read the order. First, Mr Lubomír Volný, second, with a factual point - all factual points - second, Mrs Helena Válková and third, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. So first of all, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes, Mr. Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u40	I would like to say directly to Mr. Zaorálek, the minister for everything, that he prefers in the eyes of some uncultural but alive. So you can be cultural all you want or pretend to be cultural, but if you have the blood of thousands of people on your hands, it doesn't help much. He and Mengele were a cultural man. [[Speech of disapproval and banging into the benches.]] I would like to ask you, Mr President, to extend my speech by 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u41	It wasn't for 20 seconds, but I'm gonna give you some space to comment on a factual point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. It is not true that pandemics are best handled in countries where measures are followed. I've said this before, and it's a verifiable fact. A pandemic is best handled where there are no precautions. What are you gonna do about it? Belarus - hundreds of thousands of demonstrations, out of our millions of money paid by the opposition, there if people died on the street or gathered in hospitals in corridors or were overcrowded with crematoriums, you already know that, Mr Bartoš, through Mr President. At least you from your fellow pirate party in Belarus. We found out in China, we'd find out in Belarus. I'd like to warn the Minister that I'm not the one who talks dirty around here. They're other colleagues of his. The Rakušan, who realize that they will not make their Austrian people listen, give up, so I don't know how you want to force ours. And I disagree with you. We're supposed to be dealing with drugs here in this House, knowing that and you all already know that, and it's your duty to verify that there are medicines that have 80% efficiency and reduce mortality by--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u43	So I gave you 10 more seconds, so if we can work this out, thank you. And if anyone can sign up again. So let us go, Professor Válková, Mrs Válková, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Čižinský, Mr Blažek is the order for factual remarks. Please, two minutes. Mrs Válková is asking for a technical break, i.e. a hygienic treatment of the negotiating table here. So if I may ask the staff at the request of Mrs Válková, the technical staff in the House to comply with the request. So please, the gentleman has already stepped forward. [[Rectangular disinfection in progress.]] So, Mrs Válková, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. I'll try...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u45	I'm gonna ask you to calm down because the professor doesn't have such a strong voice. So please, take it easy. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u46	Vice-President, thank you. Maybe I can get that voice stronger because of the way I lecture a lot. I only came out to say that last time I asked, as a gentleman's lady, to be kind when he sees that we are sitting in the first row and the distance is really minimal, Mr Volný by your means has put on a drape so that he doesn't basically force us to leave the O.R. in the first place after each of his speeches, thereby artificially prolonging negotiations on points he doesn't deserve. It didn't happen, on the other hand, he told me on the microphone that when I joined politics, I had to be tough enough. I don't imagine hardness like that. Hardness is probably appropriate in this sense when it comes to not retreating from certain principles, principles, perhaps even in justifying the laws we stand up for, not in terms of health. And I very much welcomed the speech by the Minister of Culture, through you, Mr Vice-President, who spoke about culture in this House. I don't feel it, I'm sure the culture is getting worse. It is in crisis situations such as this pandemic, when we are really at the borders of health, mental and other options, that we show who we really are. So let's please show the public that we're better than we seem at first sight. And that would be very, very desirable, because it is one of the things we can do easily, quickly, nothing costs us and at the same time we can at least improve the confidence that is slowly approaching zero, because the public doesn't trust us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u47	There. Time! I gave you 10 more seconds because there was that noise in the O.R., so of course I took a look at it because you're a woman and we're gonna be gentlemen. Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Pavel Blažek, and then Mr Lubomír Volný, will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the Minister. Of course, our behavior is an expression of our responsibility, our consideration, our solidarity. I agree with that. [[13.00 hours]] But, of course, it is also a technocratic problem. Just that you need vaccines, that you need a needle and syringe for each vaccine, that when you have vaccines, you need to deliver them. That people should know when they are indicated for vaccination, where to register and so on. And unfortunately, this is where the government is failing very badly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u49	Now, Mr Pavel Blažek, you have two minutes. And Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u50	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I, in response to Mr. Volný. There are certain names that should not fall at all in this plenary, and I will not repeat the name, and certainly not in the context that I would say that it was some cultural person, although I think I understand what the Member meant. But let's imagine that tomorrow people will be 15-year-olds, 16-year-olds will have such statements of the day, and there will be somebody in the Czech Parliament who said that this person responsible for incredible atrocities is a cultural person! So I would like to ask Mr Volný to either take those words back or explain something. But even abroad, the idea of us even talking about this person and saying that he has something to do with culture is simply a disgrace to this state and this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Let's keep going. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný, then Mr Kobza. At this point, the final point in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u52	Through Mr President, my colleague, at least doctors will not be surprised and will not think of anything in particular, because every doctor in this room has studied the work of torture and suffering caused by Mengele in concentration camps. He studied these work alongside each other, so the professional public has to do this. Secondly, we're standing here in a situation where 19,000 people died. For me, no more words - and the government plans to kill another 19,000 - are no more hard words for me. There's not a strong enough word for what you're doing here -- well, most opposition is just about to commit it -- but you're going to support it because people have died here and people are going to die. And I repeat to Mr Bartoš, through Mr President, will you study this? Will you study the scientific data on Ivermektin? Or are you just gonna scream with me? Where's the pirate thing? Where's the pirate thing you said you joined politics with? Save these people! The cure works, the cure heals. And here's to a colleague who had to leave again. Well, she wouldn't have to leave if the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic hadn't approved an exception for constitutional officials. We have an exception whether you like it or not. Our conduct was unconstitutional, our admonition is unconstitutional. It doesn't matter that there are holes in the next law and the next decree that you'll learn about when we discuss the crisis law. Because no one in the Czech Republic now has to wear a drape on their mouths and noses. Nobody! I'll explain later. But no one has to wear a drape on their mouths and noses, so high-quality we have a government here. And I'm calling on her to check her last order because no one can force anyone to wear a drape or a respirator. Thank you. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] That's the kind of pros you are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u53	I'm gonna ask for a health break again, and then we'll continue. [[Dissipation of microphone and table is in progress.]] Thank you and please Mr Kobza, the Rakušan Member will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, Mr. Senator, hello. What we're witnessing here is called stealing a show in show business. We're here for the people. We are here to vote on the Senate's return, whether we decide between two versions of the law, either the House or the Senate. We are not here to discuss Remdesivir and other matters. Because I understand that Mr. Volný is reducing his campaign budget. But we're here for the people, not him! So I'd beg you all, let's go back to what we're here to do, let's go back to serving people here, and we're supposed to decide a law that will fundamentally affect their lives. So, please, let's get back to the matter of why we met today! Let's not forget that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for this remark, but I must point out that we should respond to previous debates and also stick to the subject. Mr Rakušan, then Mr Volný Again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u56	By your means, Mr President, only to Mr Volný. Professor Válková didn't leave because the government messed up something. Professor Válková didn't leave because the government messed up something. Professor Válková left because you're being ruthless selfish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u57	Thank you and now the Volný Member is the last to be logged in with a point of fact. I remind you that factual remarks should respond to the speech in the debate, not to other factual remarks, but we're probably not going to change that here today. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. I, through you, to a fellow Rakušan. I have a feeling about some of my colleagues' performances, like I'm not popular here in the House or something. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] It's like you don't like me personally. That's quite interesting. I understand that they don't like me who I'm stepping on their billion-dollar business, I understand that, but they don't express themselves, they sit and they're quiet, sometimes they leave. But that you ordinary pawns of these big political corporations don't like me, so that's kind of an interesting thing. I'll tell you how to get rid of me, okay? Can I give you some advice? [[Mr. President, I'm going to ask you to...]] I have a minute 25, and you can get rid of me by not approving the pandemic law and never prolonging the emergency. Because if you approve the pandemic law, or if someone extends the emergency situation, then I and 30 other Free Bloc members will haunt you here for at least another eight years. You're damn right I do!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. This has exhausted the factual points and is now being put forward in the general debate by Mrs Valachová. However, I will ask again for a sanitary break. [[Mike's being cleaned.]] Thank you and we'll continue. Mrs Valachová is enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. I must say, I hesitated to speak, but the gunfight of factual remarks and behaviour and the statements of some Members assured me that this moment was right. We have said a lot here about many professions, professions, our health professionals, doctors, politicians. But I didn't hear anyone pointing that out, and I guess I'm not the only person who's been texted by people who've lost someone. This means the survivors of those who, despite all the steps we take, have succumbed to COVID-19, despite all the efforts of nurses and doctors. [[13.10 hours]] I don't know if these people are writing to some Members who have spoken here before me, maybe not. I have decided only briefly, because the letters are usually very long, but I will say very briefly what one of these survivors has turned to me with. It may surprise some previous speakers, but she asked me - and I will act accordingly - to do everything we can to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including restrictions on movement and including restrictions on the rights of all of us. So really just very briefly. You may also be surprised by the speed and dynamics of this story, because this is also one of the reasons why some may underestimate the situation in the Czech Republic and think that by some policy or exchange of wannabe-interesting gloss here at the House plenary, they will help something. "Saturday 13. I spoke to my younger sister Marcelka on the phone this evening. [[right 13. 2.]] She felt tired, had no appetite, and had an elevated temperature. I've taken suspicion." I'm cutting it short. "Sunday, 14. We left our sister at the infectious clinic on 12th, she was a positive covid. [[That's 14 right there. 2.]] On Monday, February 15, my sister called me twice during the day on her cell phone, she was satisfied with what is nice, new environment and friendly, helpful staff - 15. 2. Thursday 18. 2." - that's a few days - "I called at 8 o'clock this morning, the doctor was available, at 10 o'clock he told me he didn't have good news for me. The situation has deteriorated, and it's a matter of hours. In response to my desperate question whether we could visit my sister, he literally said, 'You can come say goodbye.' Her nephew stroked her hair and parted with tears. It was her first hour at her bedside. I stayed. In the three hours I was standing at my sleeping sister's, our whole life together was projected to me. On the way home from the hospital, I spoke to the chief on the phone about the situation. He called me from home, and he promised to talk to a doctor on duty, that I'd call her about 22 hours, asking her how she was doing. In conclusion, he said: 'We are already traumatized as patients leave and families grieve.' By means of it, I thanked and admired everyone for their exhausting work. We believed, hoping the nurse would breathe after all. At 19.15 the phone rang and on the other hand the doctor said: 'I regret to inform you of sad news.' We're devastated, desperate, unhappy. Coronavirus " - I quote the words of the writer here now - "he killed my sister, and we were just helplessly watching her futile struggle. " And now the endgame - I note that I have made it very short, colleagues, it is up to six pages: let the government declare maximum restrictions on movement and, at the same time, maximum financial support for survival. If I could speak on the main news, I would describe how desperate it is to lose a human being. Human life is fragile and we must do everything we can to keep this destruction from spreading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. With a factual remark in response to this speech, Mr Volný came forward. [[Room humming.]] Thank you. I'm gonna read an apology. Mr Nacher apologizes for today's illness hearing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u62	Through Mr President, Mrs Valachová, and the entire hall, such sad stories have occurred since the beginning of the coronavirus crisis in the Czech Republic 19 000. Such sad stories in the same great Belarus took place 1,900. So this lady, this sister, she didn't have to die if we behaved the same way we did in Belarus. And in order for me to be responsible for judging this very sad and painful story, it's that I need to know if the nurse you were talking about got Isoprinosine and if she got Ivermectin. And if she didn't get any of these drugs, someone took her 80 percent chance of survival. And that someone should answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u63	I'm gonna ask for a break again. However, if no one else is in the debate, I would also end the debate at this point. And then maybe I'll ask if there's any interest in the final words. [[Dissipation of the rhetorical counter and microphone is in progress.]] Thank you. [[Sounds like a gong.]] I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mr. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga apologizes for work reasons. I will now ask whether there is still interest in the final words after the general debate by the Minister or the Senator. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I have already begun to engage, so the Members are meeting. I'm gonna reengage. Of course, I will give everyone time to arrive, because there is no need for us to sit here squeezed together in this situation, so I completely understand that colleagues must arrive from farther away. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your cards again. I will point out that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. [[Noise in the hall.]] Is there any other problem with the voting devices? Isn't it? I see my colleagues are still arriving in the hall. Mr. Chairman Bartoš? Isn't the voting device working? [[Yes.]] Well, I'm gonna check everyone out one more time. Please try to log back in with your cards. If there's a problem... [[A commotion in the hall.]] So I guess we have a problem with the device. I'm denouncing as furiously as I can. So I'm gonna have to call a technical break because we're at least jammed with a imaging device. So I'm declaring a technical break at this point for two minutes until 1:20. Let's take a look. Then I'll inform you immediately if there's a problem of a longer-term nature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to inform you that the technical problem is of a more serious nature, so I am declaring a 15-minute break so that we can get the voting equipment up and running, or until 13.35.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u65	Madam, honourable Members, Mr Senator, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue because the defect should be removed. I'd like you all to sign up with your cards again. We interrupted our negotiations just before the vote on the approval of the proposal in the form of senate. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill'. Is there an application for a check-out? I guess I have no choice but to reboot the system after the tests and reboot the system where we interrupted the meeting. I'm very sorry, but unfortunately. Yes, the voting device doesn't work, the checkout doesn't work. Now. We're gonna have to run the dosage. Let's try to hold on a little while before they gather... I will probably be forced to interrupt the House's negotiations again, for 20 minutes this time. The voting device doesn't work. What can I do? We can, of course, vote in numbers, that is the second possibility that we will vote on names - I do not defend myself - or in the form of crucifixors. In that case, I would interrupt the meeting for at least 10 minutes to prepare for it, because it is not a routine procedure for which the House's office would be prepared. Look out, you can't unsubscribe, you can't do anything. I'll give you five minutes, and then either we vote by name or it's technically fixed. We'll prepare both options. I'm interrupting the meeting until 13.43 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-001-001.u66	Dear colleagues, we will still need about 10 minutes to collect the scrutinizers, which will delay us now, but it will save us an hour of vote, if necessary. I think it's coming, so let's try to test it. I'm gonna ask you to sign up. Before the number of applicants settles, we'll do a test vote first, and then we'll do a full constitutional act. So I thank all those who are present and have volunteered, and I would like to ask you for a test vote, for example, if it's Tuesday. I started voting number seven. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 7, we rejected Tuesday, which I consider to be quite a good result. So it looks like the voting device is working, so we'll continue. I will once again make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain related laws, according to the House press 1158/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 1158/3.' This is a motion for a resolution. I believe that all those who want are logged in, I'm initiating vote number 8 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 8 156 Members and Members are registered, for 124, against 24. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill approved by the Senate has been approved. If no one has any objections, I also note that we have accepted him. I would therefore like to thank the Senator, thank the Minister as a plaintiff, and I am of the opinion that we have therefore adopted the bill. This point is exhausted and we can end it successfully. Let's move on to the next point on tonight's show, which is
