ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u1	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the 94th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, I will refer to the registration of the 93rd meeting with the replacement cards. And we can move on. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies with an extension of the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 23 March this year. We shall proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we determine, as in the morning, for the 93rd meeting of Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mr Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Once again, I'm gonna go on to get enough entries, and I'm gonna look around, and I'm gonna see that there's enough people here, and I'm just gonna ask for an entry. I checked you out, so sign in. There. We will decide on the verifiers of the number one vote I started, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number one of the 77 in favour of 77, against no one. I note that we are the verifiers of the 94th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mrs Jana Krutáková and Mr Jiří Valenta. As far as apologies are concerned, I refer to the minutes of the 93rd meeting, so they remain the same; no further apology has been received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. On 27 February 2021, Members of Parliament, the Government declared in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the territory of the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 30 days. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 22 March this year, the Government requested the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic until 27 April 2021. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. I believe that I do not need to repeat the various provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are not doing this for the first time, so we will proceed to our own agenda of the 94th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, even though I was present and the President of the KDU-ČSL Bartošek Club will comment on the agenda. Okay. Chairman Jan Bartošek for the KDU-ČSL Club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I have announced, colleagues, I am asking you to include a new point, which will be called Information of the Government on the completion of the nuclear power plant Dukovany and security issues related to this. And I would like to say that this point will be included to be the first to be included today, before we discuss the extension of the emergency situation. Why am I coming up with this new point? The government is acting against its resolution. On 27 April 2020, the Government adopted a resolution by the Government of the Czech Republic on the preparation of new nuclear resources and the fundamental security interests of the state. By this resolution, the government approved the secret document, under the secret regime, called T4 2020 and the media wrote about it. The document describes the threat of Russian and Chinese companies. The issue is that in April 2020, the government approved this security document of the Czech intelligence services describing the significant threat of Russian and Chinese companies, and in March 2021, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček basically invited Rosatom to de facto tender and handed over the entire tender documentation, essentially the plan of the new Czech nuclear power plant. There are many questions. For example, as I prepared, according to Jaroslav Míl, a safety questionnaire regarding the completion of the nuclear power plant. In essence, it is not a questionnaire, but a general text where potential candidates are invited to provide information on the structure in which they intend to submit an offer on their own structure of the main supplier and members of the consortium or likely subcontractors. A working group involving security forces under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior did not even see it. Why? How is that possible? Who will this questionnaire be consulted with, or is it already taken to solve it? At the same time, it is not clear how, when and who will evaluate the answers sent, and on the basis of answers to general questions, the State cannot be expected to learn new facts relevant to the safety assessment of applicants. And then there is also a question of how to possibly justify the later exclusion or non-reaching of a candidate. There's a lot of questions. At this point, just think of it as an introduction to this issue and a request for inclusion on the program. By the way, it is also the case - the words of Minister Petříček - that there was a hug of social democracy, that the government was hugged. And I am also interested in the attitude of social democracy, how it will behave in this situation, whether it will be constantly pushed into the corner by the ANO movement and its arrogant behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u3	The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will now comment on the agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond briefly to the proposal that has just been made. I have called this meeting in accordance with Section 109m of the Rules of Procedure, which is a special provision which is intended precisely for us to discuss the emergency situation. You know there's a slightly different regime in terms of speaking times and all. It is true that the programme is approved and can be extended. So we have also respected a little the rule that it has always agreed, at least in the framework, with the emergency situation, that was the way it was treated on the grémies. [[10.40 hours]] President Bartošek has the full right to propose a point in the programme, but even after consulting the legislation, it is recommended that this be related in some way to the emergency situation. There's no precedent, the Rules of Procedure don't regulate it, but we've been more or less following it now. He's a rare emergency, not for us now in this parliamentary term, but there are Members who may not have experienced it at all. So I would respect that now regardless of the substance and content of what Mr Bartošek is proposing, but just so you know that I myself will not vote for that point, because I think we should only deal with the emergency situation and things at least generally related at this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u5	Now with priority rights chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, I agree with you and I will show you the direct link between these two points. I think it's pretty simple. On Mondays and Tuesdays, we read about how the Communists would not support the government's request to prolong the emergency situation. Then the Russian company is invited to the Dukovany tender, the Communists will meet, the Central Committee of the KSČM will change its mind and recommend to its Members to support the request for an extension of the emergency situation. And I have to say that the emergency situation is really serious, and it's out of the ordinary political agreements that happen yesterday, today, and will happen tomorrow, and with an emergency situation. With so much restraint on constitutional freedoms and human rights, we're not supposed to be doing business, and here we see a dirty political deal live - we're gonna let the Russian firm into your tender, and you're gonna support us in extending the emergency situation. That, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, is the connection. That's why I think the House is supposed to discuss it, because it has undoubtedly and immediately to do with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u7	President Bartoš has been given priority rights, but I don't see him here, so once again, Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on my in front of the speaker. I believe that these points are closely linked, and you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, are responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and are to answer to it. I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to propose this point and I believe that this is a matter of our national security so fundamental and will affect our future over the next few decades that if you address Rosatom this hard with ignoring the government, it is equal to an invitation letter in 1968, because it is a fundamental attack on the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. [[A commotion in the hall.]] You ignore what our Secret Service says. At the meeting, you say how you will respect them, how they will be taken into account. Screw them, screw the security of the Czech Republic and sell us for 30 pieces of silver.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u9	Now, Prime Minister Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure it would suit the way President Vondráček presented here, to you, especially from the government benches, so that we can see that these things are completely unrelated, let's just focus on the emergency situation. That's exactly what's going on here, that emergency situation should serve, that debate about him, certainly a long one, which is going on not only here, but in the media, it's used to close our eyes to what's happening, and it's kind of a drape, a screen that's convenient at this point. I want to call on the social democracy that is a member of this government not to close its eyes, so that it does not cooperate on this, if it is simply a flagrant violation of all conceivable rules by their Minister of Foreign Affairs. Well, that's definitely a challenge that needs to be raised here, and you colleagues should be aware of whether you want to participate in this or not. And I also want to call on Prime Minister Babiš to re-run the negotiations - the negotiations that we had with the Dukovan as the chairmen of all the parliamentary parties, so that, at a time when such steps take place here, when there are changes compared to what was last said in our negotiations many weeks ago, so that we can sit back at one table and on such essential things for our security, for our energy self-sufficiency, the contract that is going to cost us hundreds of billions of crowns, which will affect tens of years - it is not a matter of one, two, three governments - so that we simply talk about it. You can't just take that off the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u11	Now Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not respond to the lies that have been raised here by the microphone in connection with the emergency situation here with this problem. Those are the lies that have been told here, and we would never be the ones trying to deal with an emergency. Connecting these two things is really, really tragic. If we're talking about nuclear safety, about building Dukovan, the hypocrisy that the right here is showing off has reached its peak. At first they said: We just want a substantive discussion, a technical discussion, we don't want to bring politics into it, we want clear arguments. And when the government hears them - and I'm against the government doing this, because I would like it to decide, not to postpone it after the elections - it suddenly comes up with the fact that this is not a matter of debate, that this is not about arguments, but purely and simply about a goddamn policy. Because the previous outputs that were here, and the connection of the emergency situation to this problem really came to an end. I have no words to comment on. The emergency situation we have here, citizens' health concerns, connect here with this - so shame on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u13	We're still discussing the program, but so far, those with priority rights are logged in. Now Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, then President Ivan Bartoš and colleague Stanjura and Bartošek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would simply ask the opposition that we really do not do any business about the lives of our citizens and claim - the emergency situation and Dukovany - is completely absurd. I'm going to ask Mr. Havlíček to come out here and explain it, because the move he took was after consulting the security services, he was after consulting the president of the ČSSD, so he has to explain. I don't even know the details. And please believe us, we don't do business. We want to ask for an extension of the emergency so that we can all handle this lockdown together, and the lives of our fellow citizens are priority. So I really consider the debate to be, as I would say, not appropriate, because it is an absurd statement, there is no such thing. The Dukovany will be decided by the next government, so that is the case, and I would like Mr. Havlíček to have the space now and explain what he did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u15	Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček is registered, but now Ivan Bartoš and then Deputy Prime Minister. Then Zbyněk Stanjura, then Marian Jurečka, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond perhaps even in the sense that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has spoken here. The way it happened yesterday in the finals, and why it happened, it's just people who did it or who took part in it. You're saying it has nothing to do with anything. We're in that emergency condition -- turning it off, turning it on -- we're about a year old. How many times has the House or the government been swept by something so-called under the cover of an emergency, when a thing that is absolutely essential suddenly happens out of nowhere. [[10.50 hours]] I consider yesterday's challenge sent by Minister Havlíček to be fundamental. I've been in two important meetings since January. On one was the Prime Minister, there was Mr Havlíček, there was the director of ČEZ, there was Mr Míl from the commission, and there was a clear question of security regarding the solution of these projects, which was also said by the opposition, Russia and China should not be involved in this project for security reasons. I'll soon get to why I'm talking about it. Then we met with representatives of the security community - there was a representative - represented by Mr Koudelka from the BIS, there was Mr Havlíček, there was like Honza Bartošek and other people and we were discussing the issue of security. The security community will clearly repeat several times that this is not the right procedure. I ask Mr. Havlíček: Will you follow this? Yes, we will. And then, as soon as I have Mr. Blatný's documents on my desk, we're analyzing the effects of the measures, because a number of the data didn't come from the government to us -- testing in companies, if it works, if these people go to the sick room more, when we have the covid quarantine -- so the day before we're discussing the emergency situation here, when the decision now has an impact on the whole Republic, those Dukovany II, that's going to be 80 years from now -- we're going to be dealing with this, the children of our children probably with how it's going to be resolved, the project, they're going to have something to do with it. So on the day before, there is an active challenge from Mr Havlíček, who is not discussed by the government, and I would like to know how the security community could agree with this, with this step, when before even 14 days there was a clear "no" sound not only from the BIS, but from the rapporteurs, from our SACUIB and so on. So the day before the emergency hearing, and now I don't take the level with the Communist Party, we don't know what it was, the day before, this event happens, where Russia is actively invited, and it's still the way that the questionnaire is to evaluate ČEZ. That's what the security community has to evaluate, right? They're experts on the project! So it wasn't supposed to happen, it came again at an absolutely inappropriate time, and today we're dealing with an emergency situation. And so we ask. I wonder what the justification would be for you to disprove what was hanging around here and perhaps even in the media, that it has something to do with today's vote and support for the KSČM government proposal to prolong the emergency situation. I will be glad if you disprove this, but even if it were any other time, the procedure chosen by Minister Havlíček is inappropriate and contrary to what has been promised before, what has been said at those meetings, and what the government has claimed. I do not have the date of the Government's resolution here right now, but I do think that this should be explained, and I hope that this a priori has nothing to do with the positions of the parties to the emergency vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u17	Now Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, then Zbyněk Stanjura for ODS Club, then Marian Jurečka. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I don't know how they found out there was a tender. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] All you have to do is put together the basic attributes of the message that took place yesterday, and it is quite clear that no tender could have been published. At the moment and after consulting the international atomic agency, we have acted perfectly in line with the way in which the world is progressing, by preparing security - we can call it - the pre-round. In other words, the tender is written exactly at the moment when the investor, after prior approval or opponentship of the government through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, gets permission to address one or the potential supplier. That didn't happen. Once again, it didn't happen. That means we didn't give any instructions to start the tender. We did not instruct any potential supplier to address any economic or any other offer. We've only given our consent to the so-called security clearance. This means, at the moment, to make it completely clear in terms of who would be interested - not indicative, but factual - in the sense of the particular entity's interest, certain consortiums. Everything has been discussed here many times and many times, so let him put it on the table, let him make it clear that he has or has no interest in such a consortium with one or other supply, sub-contractor chain. Part of the so-called security questionnaire, which will, of course, be consulted, how else, with the security forces - I cannot imagine that it should be arranged in a different way - so on this basis, all answers will be evaluated in December of this year and it will decide who will be or will not be invited to tender, and the tender will then take place in a proper manner. For this reason, it was not necessary for us to treat security clearance by the government to decide. We are merely fulfilling what the security forces have called for, and they have called very clearly for us to follow certain rules. We've got a few messages for that. The tender is not being published and we have called for certain documents to be submitted to determine whether the tender will be initiated with the supplier or supplier. Of course, I informed both the Prime Minister and the Chairman of Mr Hamáček's coalition party, as well as we discussed it and Mr Koudelka of the BIS was informed. At this point, it mentions documentation. Please, the documentation was submitted last year. Last year in the tenth month part of the documentation was already passed on to all potential applicants in terms of localization and so on and so on. Living in the illusions that potential suppliers don't know the details of the procurement documents is illusionary. In addition, at the moment, we do not provide them with procurement documents, we only give them part of it so that the security assessment can be prepared on this basis. Of course, the final procurement documents will not be submitted until the end of the year, or at the moment when everything will be on the table and evaluated. So I'm in contact with the security forces, keep them informed, the tender doesn't register. There is enough time for everyone to present a final interest or a lack of interest, to say clearly who they would go with or not, and the next government - finally, this discussion has been held - will be able to comment on this and, of course, it will only be able to do so after the approval of the security forces. So if the security forces decide on the basis of the documentation that comes in and even the list of potential candidates who will definitely confirm it or not - because it can also happen by logging in one or two - then logically before starting the tender, it will proceed in accordance with the security forces. It can be done at any time in terms of elimination. It can be done before they don't talk, it can be done during, it can be done at the end. Yes, it's true that the security forces are pushing it - or clearly, to be absolutely precise - to do it before the tender starts, so it's done before the tender starts. That means if it's in December, if it's in January, it's another thing, but from this point of view, we didn't take any action that would in any way deny what we've been saying all along. We are acting in accordance with the requirements of the security forces - the tender has not been filed or could not be written out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, Marian Jurečka will prepare himself. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u20	Many words, Minister. You didn't confirm anything, you consider yourself a government. I've never seen that before. It was discussed by the government through the Ministry of Industry. I've never seen that before. You have two ministries - I understand. If you had seven, you could make your own decisions, you have nine votes in government. You'd have one, but theoretically, you could have nine, so don't say. First of all, don't play that fake game with the citizens! You have the position of the security community, and it clearly tells you: Russia does not. And how will Minister Havlíček react? So let's ask Rusko how they would do this to us. That's enough, you two sentences! The security community, the task force that the government has set up, not the opposition, not the media, not the competitors, the government! - there are three secret services, the SAO, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - clearly says: China and Russia do not. And Minister Havlíček, as the government, I think behind the government's back, with the Prime Minister's approval, says, "Well, let's ask the Rus how much they would do us for." And he comes and I say, "I see it now, see the price? Do you see the price our friends from Russia are offering us? You're not gonna throw them out! Mr. Secretary, you don't have the approval of the security forces. According to my information, you don't even have the Home Secretary's approval. I propose that the meeting be adjourned to the presence of the Minister of the Interior to confirm the words of the Minister of Industry. Otherwise you're lying to us! [[11.00 hours]] I read your government colleague's statement to the Minister of Foreign Affairs yesterday. Have you read it? Well, does he agree with you? They don't agree. They agree with us. Did you really think under the cover of an emergency situation that you would bypass the government, the government committee, the security community? And as to whether it is or is not tender - an old proverb says: "When something looks like a duck, it cries like a duck, it moves like a duck, it's a duck. " Although Minister Havlíček is able to explain to us in 15 minutes that he is a camel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u21	The President of the ODS club proposed to suspend the procedural proposal to the presence of the Minister of the Interior. I will put it to a vote without debate. I'm gonna make sure there's enough colleagues and co-workers here. [[Gong.]] I'll sign you all out. Before that, with priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry, we should probably vote right now when it comes to the procedural proposal. Just to say, the Home Secretary is here, only he has access to television, he'll answer, he's ready to answer. That doesn't mean he's out of the House somewhere, that he doesn't want to answer. He'll be ready to answer, but he just called in the TV. Maybe he answers the questions you're asking. Thank you. Therefore, if you do not consider this proposal unnecessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u23	I'll have you all checked out before the vote. The Vice-President is still applying for priority rights... I'm not going to have a procedural debate and I'm going to let the procedural proposal vote on it, so that's not the problem. Please log in with your ID cards. On a proposal from my colleague Stanjura to interrupt this meeting, because we have no point yet, until the Minister of the Interior. I don't have enough... I've had enough. I started voting number two. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number two, from 96 in attendance, for 45, against 14. The motion was not accepted. Mr Marian Jurečka will now appear. Please, colleagues, respect... I've already read the priority rights when you apply. So, of course, after Jan Jureček, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek is registered with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, colleagues, I would be very happy to have the Home Secretary Jan Hamáček come out here and either confirm or deny the information we read through the media that the Prime Minister said that the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček has given his consent to the procedure followed by the Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček in relation to handing over either a full or a large part of the documentation to the representatives of Rosatom. I admit I don't understand the procedure. So first of all, a government committee is going to be here, and the government is going to invite representatives of all the parliamentary parties here, and it's strategic, important information, key decisions for decades, and we want the entire political scene to be represented here because it goes beyond this government's term of office. Then the government takes the next step and says: We want to know the position of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Information Services and the SAOKIB. This will make it clear that China and Russia will not be invited into the tender at all. We have a meeting a month ago, political party leaders with the Prime Minister. Mr Míl is there, the director of ČEZ Daniel Beneš is there, and there I asked at the end of the meeting: what will be the next steps of the government, Prime Minister? When do you plan to do a possible listing of the tender and all that? The Prime Minister said, "Well, we don't know yet, we're gonna have to consult, and the government will have to make a decision. And the whole negotiation ended in a firefight about the fact that the financial model isn't actually clear. I was leaving the meeting in a situation where I thought, "Okay, so the government isn't clear yet, it's waiting. By the way, there's a delayed meeting of the State Security Council that was supposed to have a special meeting. This was mysteriously interrupted at the time, or eventually it didn't happen, and until today the Security Council of the State, which would have evaluated this, didn't take place. And we're going to find out here yesterday through the media that this is what we're going to do here, let's say marketing research. Can you tell me why you're doing this? And if the government isn't doing it, why is the Minister of Industry and Trade doing it? He spoke here, the Minister, but he didn't say the whole reason. So why, on the one hand, say: For security reasons - or the position of the entire expert group - we will not invite China into tender. And from the same arguments that this expert group made to the government, you continue to work with Russia. So please explain this nicely, because neither the Prime Minister nor Vice Prime Minister Havlíček have yet to give a clear explanation of this situation, which has happened this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Now Minister Lubomír Zaorálek with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u26	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry I'm performing because I'm not a member of that nuclear group today. But since I was in the last government, and I was working with lawyers at the State Department back then, I'd just like to comment on something that fell here because I think I see this thing pretty clearly. Here it was said that the security questionnaire, when it's sent, is declared tender. I'm pretty sure you can only declare tender under the Public Procurement Act. There is exactly how the tender is started. But the safety questionnaire was something we were going to do, and its purpose is different. The purpose of this safety questionnaire is to contact those countries that are considered and see how the individual companies are connected to the state, what relations they have to the state, if it cannot happen that the state can give them tasks or influence them in some way. That means, in order to draw up the procurement documents, I knew that we needed to draw up answers to the safety questionnaire so that we knew who we were dealing with. On the basis of the information from this security questionnaire, the procurement documents are drawn up and the tender is then announced as it is to be declared under the Public Procurement Act. I'm just saying this because I don't want to deal with all the details here, but I'm sure, based on my work with lawyers at the time, who did it, that there's definitely no tender being declared by this safety questionnaire. That's what I'm sure of. And it is about getting information on the basis of which the procurement documents are being prepared. That's from my point of view, and I'm just saying it as my point of view because I used to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček will now speak with priority rights, then Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since I have been called upon to respond to this matter, I will, of course, do so. I do not want to comment on the procedure chosen, it is probably a matter for the debate of expert bodies and experts. I'm just going to answer the question as to how it was from the information point of view. I would like to say that Vice Prime Minister Havlíček informed me orally of this intention. The Ministry of the Interior has no written material in this regard, and, as far as I know, no opinion has been requested either by a service that is directly subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. the Office for Foreign Relations and Information. I'd like us to move this situation somewhere, because I don't think that's how we're gonna handle it. I think that if the Ministry of Industry and Trade decided to go this way, there is nothing easier than calling a intelligence committee in order to find out the position of the services, because it is possible that this procedure may somehow be arranged for what the services have proposed. Then, on the recommendation of the Intelligence Committee, the Security Council of the State may be convened to deal with this. That's what I think would be legitimate procedure, and it would probably distract a whole series of concerns that are here. Again, I don't want to evaluate the material itself, I don't dare, because I'm not an expert on this. From the point of view of the procedures, the Ministry of the Interior has not issued any opinion on this, nor has it issued any opinion either by foreign intelligence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u30	Yes, thank you. In addition to the speech by Vice-President Hamáček: I confirm that this was communicated orally to Mr Hamáček, it was not written. But the important thing is the safety questionnaire. I didn't realize when I was talking about the form of the safety questionnaire. The safety questionnaire will be prepared within the Ministry of Industry and Trade, ČEZ, government agent for the core and at the same time security forces. After this safety questionnaire is ready, it will be in the standard round, which means, in any case, we were counting on it to be through the Security Council of the State, what has just been said here, the intelligence committee, I think it makes sense that this is the right procedure, and I can only agree with that as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u31	Now President Bartošek, then President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u32	Minister, I'm sorry, but your actions and your constant explanation only lead to your getting involved and becoming increasingly incomprehensible. The crucial thing is that all the security community tells you not to let Russia and China into this. And you say he'll be approached by Rosatom. Isn't that right? [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Then publicly say that he will not be approached by Rosatom or as a sub-contractor. He won't be questioned about security, he won't be provided with information, and the government will decide who will or won't build the core. We're not in a situation where we're competing for cars. We spend a huge amount of money and decide, as a sovereign state, who will build it with us. If you are ready to address Russia, you are addressing a brutal regime that substantially suppresses human rights. The story of the Navalný is not enough for you, it is not enough for you how Russia intervenes against the civilian population, against free speech! It's not enough for you, and what Minister Zaorálek says, what the governments think about it. Oh, my God, Rosatom is connected - you know, how do you even think about letting this firm go? The fact that you eliminated China, sure, if there are concentration camps for the Ujgur, at least so, but it's not enough towards China. And despite the fact that this is not just about the Ujgur, it concerns Christians, it concerns many other groups. And you're flirting and juggling, and you're saying, actually, I respect the recommendations of the security community, but you never said you wouldn't rule out Rosatom. and that you will go the way of other suppliers. And here I ask the Prime Minister to stop the steps taken by the Minister of Industry and Trade. I agree with what the Home Secretary says, have the Security Council of the State convene, check everything that's going on around the completion of the core, and only after the review and discussion of the government and the Security Council of the State may follow further steps. Prime Minister, stop what the Minister of Industry and Trade is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Now President Zbyněk Stanjura, then President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u34	Two vice premieres appeared, I think the proposal of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček is rational, factual, Minister Havlíček is making fun of us because he says that - yesterday there was a report that the safety questionnaire will be sent today. Or what is to be sent out today by Minister Havlíček to the candidates? And then he said, "The standard lap will be and so on." In my opinion, when the Prime Minister comes in today, he says to the microphone: what Vice Prime Minister Hamáček suggests is reasonable, we will assess the steps that the MIT wants to take in the government committee, or at the Security Council of the State, I will inform Parliamentary Party Presidents of the results, and then it can go this way or another way. I think that such a statement, the two sentences could lead us to withdraw the proposal to include this point - we wouldn't have to debate it today, it would be discussed by the security community. You have a group of those six institutions, three secret services, SACUIB, Homeland and Foreign Affairs, and they should comment on that. The conclusion should be public, it should be given to Members, citizens, without details, without classified facts: if the opinion of the security community is "Russia not" let us not address them if they have changed it, let them explain why they have changed it. That seems rational to me. I welcomed Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček's proposal. If - I cannot call on the Prime Minister to do so - if he does so, we will withdraw the proposal for an extension of the agenda, nothing will go to any candidates tomorrow, we will discuss it properly with the security forces, the government, or the Security Council of the State, and we will be informed of the results. I think it would calm the debate, that trust could return to those negotiations, because we are convinced supporters of completion, and these steps threaten completion. They're threatening the completion! So I'm asking the government not to take steps that threaten the term, which is already so tense. It seems rational to me, thank you to the Minister of the Interior for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u35	Now President Vojtěch Filip, then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. President Filip surrenders, so Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor. I want to assure everyone that we really have nothing to hide, and what we agreed is true. So, of course, I will comply, I will convene an extraordinary State Security Council on Monday morning at 7 o'clock, on Monday afternoon the government will discuss it and we will, of course, subsequently inform the opposition through the Dukovany Core Building Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. President Jan Bartošek will perform now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for your comments, Prime Minister. Since I was the one who suggested this point, I am withdrawing it, and I will ask that the steps you have said be followed, that is: no letter will leave Monday, no questionnaire will leave, all points will be discussed by the government, the Security Council of the State and the security questionnaire will be prepared by secret services, as has been said in advance. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. We can now proceed to the vote on the agenda of the meeting according to the invitation, because President Bartošek's proposal has been withdrawn. I have summoned all Members who have not been in the hall. There's an application for check-out, I've checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We are voting on the agenda as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 94 Members registered, for 80, against 10. The agenda has been approved. This means that we will now focus on the point
