ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u1	4. Emergency termination Since there were two appellants to this point, both President Stanjura and Vice-President of the House of Okamura, and Vice-President Okamura was the first to suggest it, so the logic of the matter should be the first to speak as the first to propose it. In addition, it was subsequently logged into... [[Vice-President Okamura is leaving the hall.]] So I would like to remind you, before we proceed, that under § 109m para. In the case of a short hearing on a motion for cancellation of an emergency before the expiry of the period for which it has been declared, no discussion in the Committees shall be made, no factual observations shall be made in the debate, a Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to the Members responsible for bringing the opinion of the Member's club on the matter. I saw Mr. Kubíček reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've prepared it, so I suggest we shorten the deputies' speech to two or five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u3	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. For those entering the hall, I would remind you that we are voting on the limitation of speaking time to five minutes, with each Member being allowed to speak at most twice in the debate. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 45, 131 Members registered, for 96, against 18. This proposal was adopted. We've limited speaking time. Now, let me remind you, we have two plaintiffs. First Mr Tomio Okamura and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u4	Ladies and gentlemen... [[The speaker breathes heavily. Fun in the hall. Let's hear it.]] Sorry, I'm sorry. I was surprised, and I wasn't counting on leaving my files in my office. So I did a sprint. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a point here that we have suggested called Ending Emergency. Government declared emergency 14th. 2. 2021 circumvents and ignores the House's decision of 11. 2. 2021, when the House did not extend the emergency status declared by the Government until 14. 2. There was a complete conflict with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and a continuation of the emergency without interruption. The government has actually decided to ignore the constitutional role of the House, especially its supervisory function over the government's actions. The government's argument that it acted on the request of the chieftains is entirely purposeful, and the authorities have effectively removed their responsibilities. There is an endless extension of the emergency situation. [[20.10 hours]] It is a fact that our country is in serious condition. The Constitution is a fundamental document of the country and it is the duty of the House to protect it. It is not possible for the Government to continue its negotiations outside the Constitution. The earth is exhausted and people's patience is over. By government established rules, various restrictions and ongoing bad communication, they put citizens and their work in difficult social and life situations. Earth needs a new approach. Work and business in retail and services must be made possible under clear anti-epidemic conditions. People have to buy shoes, gloves, or get a haircut. We aim to protect vulnerable groups. The kids have to go back to school. I propose that we vote in this context on the resolution attached as a resolution on this point, and that the Chamber of Deputies abolish, abolish the emergency situation declared by the Government on 14. 2. 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And the second plaintiff with the same content was President Stanjura. I beg you to step forward in the position of plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the main thing I wanted to say about this point for our electoral coalition of the SPOLU, for the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, I said this morning when I proposed the inclusion of the point. I want to thank everyone who voted in favour. I'm not gonna repeat those sentences. I think that by already approving the pandemic law, when the Minister of Health said that he was giving him sufficient tools to combat pandemic effectively. This morning it was still an assumption, today it is a reality. During the day, I consulted with my colleagues from the Senate, spoke with the President of our Senator's Club, and there is really high hope that the Senate could discuss this law next Wednesday and approve. That means we'd take the next step on the legislative road, and then all that was missing was the signature of the President of the Republic. Let me, then, read the motion for a resolution, which I will also submit in the debate. I forgot the end of the sentence this morning, so now I'm gonna read it properly and completely. Motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies repeals the emergency situation at the date of application of the Emergency Measures Act in the COVID-19 epidemic, but by 27 February 2021 at the latest." I believe that this resolution can be supported by a majority of the Chamber of Deputies. And I say, the main reasons and our doubts as to whether we are certainly in a constitutional state lead us to this proposal, and I believe that if the House accepts this proposal, at least from the time this law is effective, the legal certainty will be quite clear for everyone and we do not need to lead to controversy as to whether we consider it a constitutional or unconstitutional state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Or if you had it in writing, the motion for a resolution. I'd rather have him here in writing. That's for the plaintiff. I'm opening the debate. Vice-President Filip came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u8	Mr President, members of the government, Madames and gentlemen. Let me state the reasons why I supported both the convening of an emergency meeting and the inclusion of this point. As a young starting politician, in 1991 I was a member of the Federal Assembly of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and I participated in the adoption of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. It's been 30 years and about one month since the Charter saw the light of day. It was a big compromise, but it was also a big step forward, when it was clear that the citizen was merely restricted by law or could be imposed on him some obligation and the state had to do everything possible, even under the law, to enable the citizen to do so. This applies not only to the government, but also to the government. And I didn't believe that, even on Sunday morning, the government would again declare an emergency in the Chamber of Deputies' decision on Thursday. On Thursday, the KSČM Club did everything in its power to ensure that the government had the tools it could use to avoid any chaos, so that the things that are necessary to manage the pandemic were done. I thank all those who voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by which the Minister of Defence was obliged to order the Chief of Staff not to withdraw the troops. I thank my colleague Vích, who formulated the motion for a resolution with me. That was crucial to me. At that moment, I knew that no one would be eliminated from the fight against the pandemic and that we were able to handle the situation as differently in the various places of the Republic evolved. I was appalled that those who were talking about government incompetence, those who said that they would do it better, didn't want to take responsibility for what was going on here. I understood my colleague Stanislav Juránek very well when he spoke here about what this means to the county captains. I've been consulted with a lot of people who deal with how epidemiology, how health system, whether it's possible or not. But that government decision really surprised me. I didn't last, and I published a few comments on this matter. I cannot accept that a government that answers to the Chamber of Deputies will make the Chamber of Deputies a good day. I understand the legal position that this is a new situation, that this is a situation that has not been foreseen here. It's not true. The governor's request is not a change in the pandemic situation. Just today, when we adopted the law in the morning, and here some pressured him a lot so that it would just be passed before the other points, and I didn't object to it, I just didn't agree with some of the things that didn't suit me in that law. I couldn't vote for him as a whole. Nor will I vote in favour of the motion for a resolution presented by my colleague Stanjura. I have many reasons for this. One of the main reasons is that I appreciate the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, that part of the constitutional order, as declared in Act No. 4/1994 Coll. as part of the Czech Constitution, I think it is important for all of us. Either we want to maintain parliamentary democracy in the Czech Republic, or we are heading to an executive state, whether the presidential system or directly the supremacy of government over others, and the legislature will be placed under the authority of the government. I warn strongly about this, because I do not consider it possible. And respect for the Constitution, respect for the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms should accompany all those who decide. [[20.20 hours]] Do not be mad at me, but I consider this step to be the greatest failure of the government since the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia decided on its tolerance. I really didn't expect that. And this point is a demonstration of whether we are able to communicate with the government as a power legislative power executive, and if the words of the Charter and the Constitution of the Czech Republic still apply, that the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies and is dependent on its recommendation, its decision on trust also depends on it. I'd like to see something like this never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u9	Thank you. Mr Vích is now in the debate. I have a factual point in mind with Mr Klaus, just reminding me that it is not possible to make factual observations, so if this is an application, then after Mr Vích, who has applied in writing and at the same time voluntarily takes up the role of rapporteur, as we agreed at the beginning. So please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, I would just add what our SPD chairman Tomio Okamura said here, I would like to elaborate a little bit more. The need for a change in crisis legislation has been discussed for at least the last ten months. Recent experience with the pandemic of coronavirus has led to the need to give the government a tool weaker than an emergency. The government had more than ten months to prepare an amendment to the Constitutional Security Act and the Crisis Management Act, which, even though there are contradictions and there is no settled inter-ministerial commentary procedure and did not give a thumb to the Government Legislative Council, so the government approved it. I think that's a bad move. In my opinion, the scope of the restrictions can be regulated to some extent by means of the specific crisis measures announced, and if the legislative process of the then pandemic law had already been passed in May, I mean that House Press 859, did not have to be declared an emergency situation and the government did not have to ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend it repeatedly. In my opinion, the current emergency situation is declared by the government of 14. 2. on 14 days of non-constitutional and should be abolished and replaced by, not by, but by, crisis measures pursuant to Act No. 238 on the protection of public health and the Law 240 on crisis management, or others. For these reasons, I ask you to support the resolution made by Mr Tomio Okamura here, namely to abolish the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask you to take your place. Mr Klaus is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u12	Hello. I'll speak briefly for Tricolor when we're meeting here tonight. I believe that the repeated announcement of an emergency was unconstitutional. That means our seat today is breaking into an open door, or consecrating it like we're in an emergency state right now. I don't think so. Meanwhile, of course, there is a political struggle going on, so the Pirates party and the ODS have, in the meantime, turned the helm about four times, supported the emergency situation, only genius marketing changed it to antiepidemic law, and more or less the emergency state is to go to sanctification. This is, of course, legitimate, that this lockdown coalition was formed, therefore it must not object, the only thing I might object to are the tricks around it, but more or less you don't mind the situation, and now you're going to be demanding somewhere in the Constitutional Court to abolish it. Like I said, I think by meeting here right now, we're kind of sanctifying the situation as if there was an emergency. I don't think he exists, he's not legal. The government acted unconstitutionally. So we're going to meet here because we don't want Mr Okamura here to fight in the breasts, that he's the only one fighting against the lockdown and all that, so we're going to sit here, we're going to vote, and of course we're going to support the resolutions, but, of course, it's pure comedy for voters, and we're going to drag on the vote. But at the heart of the matter, the government has acted unconstitutionally, and now we're sitting here trying to get in the fire, my doll, the raffle's stolen, like we're dealing with it. Of course it is not possible, the procedure was wrong, my previous speaker, Mr Filip, said so, and now we are going to adopt a resolution. But in the meantime, the coalition has already formed, which supports the emergency situation, so it's sort of - that's changed the political map a little bit, so we already have a big lockdown coalition here, from the big parties, and that's the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u13	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting to the debate on this point. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. With priority right after the end of the debate, President Okamura. Sorry, sorry, I'm already reading the proposal here. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u14	Thank you, Vice-President Hanzl, nothing's wrong. [[Fun in the hall.]] Anyone can be wrong. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman Vondráček. I would like a five-minute break before the vote, so that all colleagues who are still in the negotiations today have a chance to take part in the vote. So, please, a five-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u15	I interrupt until 20.30, the vote will follow on the two resolutions tabled by the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u16	We have 20.30 hours. Let's keep going. The first thing we hear is an application for check-out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. We'll wait for the co-workers from the lobby to come. Given that there is basically an agreement on how we are to vote, that first we will vote on the proposal that was made first, which was the proposal made by Vice-President Okamura, the second will be voted on by President Stanjura, so we do not even think that it is necessary to approve this procedure. But if anyone says they want to approve it, of course we can do it. Or we can approve it. So I propose the procedure that we first vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Tomio Okamura, followed by a resolution by Mr Stanjura. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of this procedure? Who's against it? Voting number 46, 151 Members registered, for 146, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies is abolishing the emergency situation declared by the Government of the Czech Republic by Resolution 125 of 14 February 2021'. That is the proposal of Vice-President Okamura. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 47, 153 Members signed in, for 31, versus 65. There was no agreement with the resolution. We will now vote on the resolution that I will now make: 'The Chamber of Deputies abolishes the emergency situation at the date of application of the Emergency Measures Act in the COVID-19 epidemic, but no later than 27. 2. 2021'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 48, 150 Members registered, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and that is the end of this point. We've got that point interrupted by 20.40 o'clock officially. I have information that this will take until 20.50 before the amendments are actually processed. So from the position of controller, if there is no objection, I'm now interrupting until 20.50 hours and we'll proceed with point 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, you may see that amendments are being distributed or are being distributed, but it is necessary to fine-tune the procedure. Finally, the amendments are 21, the matter is consulted by representatives of the Ministry, and I have been asked by the rapporteur, who has information directly from the legislative department that it takes 20 minutes. So I'm really sorry, but I'm interrupting till 9:10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-006-004.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, it seems that we are ready to discuss the third reading in accordance with Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act. [[point 3]]
