ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another day of session adjourned by the 87th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I just checked you out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up, we have a new meeting, so let's do your presentation. Members of Parliament, the Government has requested that the following House press, which has been approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Section 99 (2) of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a government bill on some other adjustments in the area of state social support benefits and the contribution to care in connection with the COVID-19 epidemic, House press 1172. By decision number 98, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, I ordered the House press to 1172 the Committee on Social Policy and set it an unstoppable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 10 March to 9 o'clock. Madame Members, I would like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has agreed, first of all, to include a new item in the 87th session of the draft law in the shortened negotiations which I have just mentioned, House press 1172. Furthermore, the amendment to the item - in the block of first reading for paragraph 43, House printing 733, on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, first reading, pursuant to Section 90, paragraph 2, to include paragraph 239, which is the House printing 837 on obtaining and improving competence to drive motor vehicles, first reading, also under Section 90, paragraph 2. Furthermore, the Grémium suggests that the following items of the approved agenda be reassigned as follows: Point 3, press 1111/2, a crisis law rejected by the Senate, which has already been firmly placed on today's first point, proposes to place the grémium firmly on Tuesday of the variable week, that is to say 23 March, as the first point. Point 1, House Press 1152, the crisis law, first reading, proposes to place the Gremium firmly on Tuesday of the variable week on 23 March as the second point. Furthermore, in the context of the above, we propose the following process of discussing points this week. Today, on Tuesday, 9 March, as the first item on the day of the sitting, we will discuss paragraph 56, House printing 989, on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications and on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, first reading, under Section 90, paragraph 2, and then we will continue to discuss points from the first reading block in order as stated. On Wednesday, 10 March, we propose to discuss the items in this order: as the first item on the day of the hearing, the House's press will discuss 1172, the benefits of state social support, the shortened negotiations, then the points from the third reading block in the order 328, print 532, the CNB, paragraph 334, printing 896, the granting of benefits to disabled persons, paragraph 334, print 317, the Labour Code, five weeks of leave, and then other points for which legal deadlines have been met. On Thursday, 11 March, we propose to discuss from 11 o'clock in the following order - paragraph 319, print 973, Geneva Act, contract in first reading, and subsequently point 6, print 731, non-originating species, law at second reading. That's all from the grémia side. I have a whole series of applications here, first, written, with priority rights to the agenda of today's meeting, Vice-President Okamura, then I saw Mr. Faltýnek first, then President Chvojka. Okay, I saw all of you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, for the SPD movement, as the first item in the agenda for today's meeting, I propose a point called Instant cancellation of the emergency situation. Flat bans are not the right way, lockdown is not the solution. People are senselessly forced to take measures that don't work. After more than seven days of dramatic restrictions, it turns out that the fundamental result is not coming. Responsible politicians, that is, government ministers, make an alibi in advance and talk about other closures. We keep on saying that area bans are not the right way and measures need to be targeted. People are senselessly forced to wear a respirator or a health mask in the park. They are forced to buy and use products whose quality and functionality can be doubted, their wearing out in distance is completely unnecessary and can be harmful. The government gradually destroys people's willingness to cooperate and their personal motivation. We need a new strategy and the involvement of people's responsibility for their health. There is a need to abolish pointless area measures and to protect risk groups more consistently. The testing of citizens should be based on dialogue, an explanation of the situation and must be user-reliable and friendly. They must not be enforced under the threat of repression. For the SPD movement, we propose that citizens should be re-engaged as partners in resolving the situation on the basis of personal responsibility for their health. The Czech Republic must stop being dependent on the decisions and actions of the institutions of the European Union. The European Union is hurting. Sufficient effective vaccines must be provided from all sources for rapid vaccination of citizens who wish to be vaccinated voluntarily, with emphasis on risk groups. Voluntary vaccination must be addressed primarily with the use of a network of practitioners, which has already been highlighted by the SPD for two months, and finally the government has begun to do so. For risk groups of citizens it is also necessary to provide free respirators of FFP2, disinfection and vitamins. It is necessary to strengthen the capacity of hospitals by using the capacity of spa treatment, including the personnel capacity of these organisations. Immediately, based on experience from practice, it is necessary to start the treatment of the disease with functional medicines recommended by medical practitioners. We have been calling for drugs to be used since last year, but the government is still hesitating. Instantly it is necessary to use Czech tests available for user-voluntary self-testing and to support own capacities, Czech capacities, for the production of our protective and preventive equipment. In keeping with clear preventive measures, it is necessary to allow the operation of retail and services, including gastronomic services. People need to buy shoes, go to the hairdresser and so on. It is necessary to open schools for teaching in compliance with clear preventive measures using voluntary self-testing. It is possible to adjust the schedules, divide pupils into groups and so on. It is necessary to provide free users of FFP2 respirators in public transport and to strengthen connections in order to avoid such accumulation of citizens, to maintain drapes within the rules of sanitary service in the internal areas and to lay down strict preventive rules for the entry and residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic. In this context, I propose that this House, on a proposal from the SPD, agrees to vote in the same way as last Tuesday on the motion for a resolution. It is one sentence: "The Chamber of Deputies cancels emergency on 9. 3. 2021, that means today." So that is the first point that we propose that we vote on it, that it be the first point of today's meeting. And right here in the vote, it's going to show which side is how it's going to stand. [[15.10 hours]] And point number two, which I propose, is called Providing sufficient quantities and free sales of Isoprinosine. The government must allow doctors and, where appropriate, citizens easy access to medicines that help cope with the severe course of COVID-19 infection. If this does not happen, there is a risk that citizens' concerns may be exploited by fraudsters or that people's health may be threatened by improper application of lay treatment. The State Institute for Drug Control, SÚKL, and the Ministry of Health must act as quickly as possible under their responsibility. Here I would like to remind you and I would like to call on all citizens to sign a petition for the SPD called Petitions to ensure sufficient quantities and free sales of Isoprinosine. The petition is for electronic signature at www.spd.cz thanks for the fact that thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic have already signed the petition for a very short time, almost ten thousand. And we want and ask the government to ensure, without undue delay, sufficient amounts of Isoprinosine to be sold in pharmacies without prescription. Just a reminder that this medicine is freely available in neighboring Poland, and I must say that it is a medicine registered in the Czech Republic. It's registered. He is currently on medical prescription, and this medicine is justified in the early administration of a positive effect on the course of COVID-19 disease in patients. It is therefore necessary to ensure that it is available to all COVID-19 patients who show an interest in treatment. The Czech Republic is now in a critical situation where the personnel and technical capabilities of hospitals are exhausted, health professionals from ambulances have been forced to participate in the care of patients, and there is a risk that it will not be possible to provide sufficient care for all patients in need. Well, the situation is that it's not possible to provide care for all the patients in need. At this point, it is necessary to accept all the options and medications that can help ease the course of COVID-19 disease and which include the medicine Isoprinosine, so as to prevent the complete collapse of Czech health care. It is not possible to deny a drug that has a potentially beneficial effect on the course of COVID-19 disease in early deployment to patients who are interested in it. The patient should be able to decide for himself whether or not to take this medicine. He would then carry the risks and possible consequences associated with the use of this medicine. The medicine Isoprinosine should therefore be freely and in sufficient quantities available for sale in pharmacies throughout the Czech Republic. In neighbouring Poland, where this medicine is freely available, the mortality rate and the number of severe disease patterns are significantly lower per capita. That is why the SPD is asking, and on behalf of thousands of citizens who have signed our electronic petition, which is on www.spd.cz to sign, so we ask the government to do so and to ensure sufficient quantities and free sales of Isoprinosine. So that's point number two that we're proposing for the SPD. And point number three, and I would like it to be the third item on the agenda of today's meeting, in order of 1, 2, 3, so the SPD proposes a third point on the invitation to the government to reconstruct the government and the resignation of responsible ministers. The SPD requires reconstruction of government and replacement of incompetent ministers. The SPD asks for personal responsibility for the situation in which the Czech Republic finds itself. Renovation of government and replacement of ministers is needed, which is not enough for their tasks. It is the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, who is also the Chairman of the ČSSD. It is also the Minister of Health of Jan Blatný for the ANO movement and also the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-President of ČSSD Tomáš Petříček. These ministers should resign. The government of the Czech Republic continues to lose confidence in the public in the fight against coronavirus. This loss of trust is related to their other chaotic, halfhearted, and delayed decisions. The government does not inform the public enough about vaccination against COVID-19 disease and its confusing crisis communication continues. For all one example from last week, when the government banned racing food from allowing it after a few hours of public pressure. Although the Minister of Industry and Trade for the ANO movement Karel Havlíček promised in the media last week that the closure of districts and other strict restrictions would last only three weeks, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš subsequently said something else last Thursday that he would not relax after three weeks. So once again, the endless lockdown and the SPD disagree. But what will be the government's strategy when this emergency ends on March 28th, but the Prime Minister did not say as usual. The citizens are already desperate, they are losing motivation, the cup of patience has overflowed. Citizens lack certainty and have legitimate mistrust of this government. Everyone wants to see the imaginary light at the end of the tunnel after a year and not just another series of delays. The SPD movement has long said that flat bans are not the solution. This government has no strategy and individual ministers, especially the Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Hamáček and the Minister of Health for the ANO movement Jan Blatný, should take their political responsibility for the current situation and resign. The government in this configuration should end and replace it with a government of experts that restores public confidence and brings this country to the proper planned autumn elections in October, where citizens will hand out new political cards. In this context, we also demand that the Czech Government, headed by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, should officially take steps to resign the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyenová. The elites of the European Union have assumed the right to decide on the treatment and prevention of people in the Member States. They have failed to cope with this situation and must be held accountable. It is clear that our country can no longer continue the political course, which makes us, in fact, a mere protectorate of the Brussels elites. Here lies responsibility to Secretary of State Petříček, who does not act. Basically, he is just a statician, Czech foreign policy has ceased to exist. Like Hungary, we must ignore the regulation of the European Union and, following the model of Britain, we must prepare the Czech Republic for departure from this European Union. In any normal situation, if it were to occur in any company, in any organization, if someone were to make a promise, he would promise half a billion people, in this case specifically vaccines for voluntary vaccination, and then fails, fails, so he should withdraw. But Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and the government of the ČSSD movement, YES, CSSD and KSČ are silent. He's keeping his mouth shut about this incredible behavior of the European Union. And we call on Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to call on the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyenová to resign, because I think it is still a mild form. Because Prime Minister Babiš here has presented to us how he believes in the European Union, how he believes in its promises - so everything has been delayed and now it turns out that promises are not fulfilled and vaccines for voluntary vaccination for citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily are not available and we are among the worst countries at all. That means, it's the minimum I'm saying here for the SPD movement, what the government should do to restore public confidence. Because people are desperate, justifiably desperate and they don't want to, they don't understand the measures anymore, many people don't even want to follow it anymore, they're desperate economically, socially and healthy, so this is because the government has lost confidence precisely because it approaches these things in this way, and the solution is to restore trust. That is why we are saying our proposals to reconstruct the government, the demise of responsible ministers. And the government takes it how? Instead of deducing those people who have failed, and it turns out that they have no solution to draw personal responsibility, the government is proposing draconian fines for citizens and repression. Repression, repression, repression against citizens who have not caused the current situation, and draconian fines, million-dollar fines against citizens, decent and working people. But the main thing is that citizens have lost their trust. Trust in this government. And the government needs to draw on this personal responsibility. So thank you for your attention and I hope that you will approve these three points of ours so that we can discuss them and, of course, we can face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u3	Thank you. Did I understand correctly that, in the third point, the invitation to the Government was also mentioned to the President of the European Commission? Or is that a separate point? Same one point. Excellent. So three points are designed. President Faltýnek, then President Chvojka, then President Pekarová, then President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u4	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal on the agenda for this meeting. Unfortunately, I failed to convince my colleagues on the Gremium, and I suggest that we place them firmly for tomorrow, Wednesday 10. 3. for 18 hours of negotiation or negotiation of paragraph 485. This is the Government's information on the vaccination strategy. Minister Blatný is ready, he is counting on it, and I would like to ask you to support this proposal. It's not a law, so we're still able to discuss it after 7:00, but I still think that that hour, hour and a half might be enough for that point. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u5	Thank you. Another priority right - President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to ask: we have two points in the block of first reading points. One is the identity card, and the other is the law relating to the Civil Card Act. They're both prints from the Home Office workshop. I would like to ask or suggest that, in this block of laws of the Ministry of the Interior, we give for these two points, i.e. for civic IDs and related, also point 108, which is a draft constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic, press 1161, and for this point a draft law amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management, in short, crisis law, it is press number 1162. This means that the Home Secretary Hamáček has four prints in one block that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u7	Thank you. Now President Pekarová and then President Jurečka, then President Bartošek. All priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u8	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for a preliminary ruling on the Government's strategy for vaccination and so on, as is the name of the whole proposed by President Faltýnek here in the 18th hour tomorrow. [[finance - the only member of the government in the hall]] I think that the situation in terms of vaccination should be an absolute priority and attention should be paid to it before tomorrow, because every day we do not inoculate quickly enough, we simply risk other victims and, of course, economic losses. So I suggest we do this sooner, and that's the first point today. In the Czech Republic, we inoculate much slower than we set out as a plan. We've been filling it lately, in the last 30 days, only at 65 percent. This should be a warning to us: 65 percent in a situation where we are at the top of the peak of the peloton in both the victims and the contagion, unfortunately compared not only with Europe, but also with other states throughout the world, so it should be a complete disaster for us and we should be focusing on it much, much more. And I think that's just a catastrophic result. The average number of vaccine vaccines vaccinated per dose is 21,500. That's just so little in a ten-and-a-half-million-dollar country. Even on weekends, we have so low numbers of vaccinations that we should simply put all the strength to attack a base of 100,000 vaccinated doses a day, including weekends. If it's just a little bit possible, then we just have to do everything we can to get the vaccine right away, so within one, two, three days tops, we've also been able to inoculate it. In short, according to the strategy we have in force, approved by which progress should be made, 1.2 million people should already be vaccinated, and the fact is that it is 0.8 million people. And every vaccine we have, instead of having it really inoculated, we have it in the freezer or somewhere in storage, so it's a risk for other victims. That is why I think that Minister Blatný should be present today at the meeting of that point and that we should include this point as the first day to discuss the reasons why we are carrying out the plan so miserably to discuss how to improve it and how to achieve much better numbers. Because I remind you that every day lockdown - every day lockdown - costs us 4 to 5 billion crowns, according to economists. According to statistics, we can read them in today's media, clearly very sad numbers for January 2021, when we have almost the most victims, the most dead in 70 years. And these are the statistics that we're facing here now. And they're not just numbers, they're somebody's parents, they're somebody's kids, they're somebody's relatives. We should keep this in mind, so that there are no more unnecessary ones, others that will be filling these statistics in the coming months. We need to get back to normal as soon as possible, but it won't be any different than if we get a much faster, much more effective vaccination. And that's what the Minister here has to tell us why this isn't happening. So I propose this point, once again, today as the very first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u9	Thank you. President Jurečka with priority rights. President Bartošek will prepare himself, also with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u10	Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam Minister, Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to follow up on my previous speakers, on what President Pekarová Adamová and President Faltýnek said earlier, regardless of how these points will be included in the agenda for this meeting. I support that we have the opportunity to talk about this important topic here, so that the Minister, or other members of the government, will give this information not only to us but also to the public, but not only to the vaccination and vaccination procedures, but also to include the current situation of the government's procedure in the fight against pandemics, and also to be information containing personnel changes in the Ministry of Health, especially in the position of the Chief Hygiene, because I think it is necessary for these things to be clarified here as well. So please, I'm adding that both of these points that have been proposed, or if there has been any other proposal, have been extended by this kind of information. And now, on the subject of what I would like to bring as a proposal to complement the agenda of this House of Deputies, which is what the Chamber of Deputies has already supported, we have it on our agenda, but unfortunately, it does not seem that this item will be able to be reached at the meeting, and this is so that we can discuss the House document item under number 7332, which is the setting up of the commission of inquiry, the House of Investigation Committee on the Bečva River crash. Let me say a few things about that. It's been more than six months since this crash took place. There is a repetition of the deadline that is promised to the general public that the expert will carry out an expert opinion, on the basis of which the police will continue to investigate the case and, if necessary, point to a question that may need to be brought forward in specific accusations. However, unfortunately so far, although at the beginning of the whole story we were assured by both ministers, both the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabc and the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, that the authorities, whether the authorities in the field of environmental supervision or the Police of the Czech Republic, are intensively involved and that it will be a matter of a few days, then that it will be a matter of a few weeks, then that it will be a question by 20 December last year. And unfortunately, the deadlines are still unfulfilled. The last time this term was postponed from the end of February, but we don't know when. I think the ministers here should consider whether they should remain in office if these things fail to move forward by the end of March. [[15.30 hours]] Now let me also support this point with what the public has addressed to all of us, Members and Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I would like to quote a short letter here, which is also very important for your decision whether we will place this item firmly at the meeting so that it can be discussed: "Dear Member, honourable Member, an open letter to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic on the poisoning of the Bečva river. Done at Wallachian Meziříčí on 9 March 2021. We would like to address you together in the matter of the poisoning of the Bečva River. This became the 20th September of last year and we still do not know the perpetrator of this disaster. We are aware that, unfortunately, in these days, weeks and months, you are still dealing with the current issue of the pandemic of coronavirus and are striving to maintain the most favourable conditions of economic, social, and health for us citizens of the Czech Republic. Yet we are sending you this urgent request. The Bečva River was severely damaged on a large part of the flow. The dramatic consequences of poisoning are not merely of an economic nature, the mortality of dozens of tonnes of fish, and this is, above all, hardly a repairable environmental disaster. Last September, there was a total disruption of the entire ecosystem of the Bečva river and its result was dead Bečva. The crash killed fish and other aquatic animals, and it's very lucky that they didn't catch people in and around the river. Returning to the original state, if possible in its entirety, will take many years. In order not to repeat such a situation in the future, it is necessary to determine the cause of its origin and to do so, it is necessary to know the source of the poisoning, including the way the toxic substances entered the river. But even six months after the crash, the case doesn't seem to be nearing closure, and the investigation seems to be going to a loss. The procedure of the state authority and institutions involved in the investigation, which we would expect a transparent and credible procedure from, i.e. from the outset, raises only further and further questions, including the one summarised on the website of PeticeBečva.cz, which was signed by almost 20,000 signatories. The approach of the Czech Environmental Inspection is particularly striking, which arouses mistrust from the first day after the accident. A number of operations or procedural procedures of the Police of the Czech Republic are also at issue. Court expert, . Jiří Klicpera, who saves the accident for the Police of the Czech Republic, repeatedly postpones the publication of his opinions. In addition, he has now found himself in a situation where the police must investigate his actions. Last but not least, it is appropriate to mention the not very convincing approach of the Minister of the Environment and the leadership of the town of Valašské Meziříčí to poisoning. And we could continue to list further controversial decisions by various public institutions or bodies and their representatives in relation to this case. The reasons outlined above raise doubts as to whether the investigation of poisoning is conducted correctly and thus undermines the public's confidence in state institutions. In view of the gravity of this environmental disaster, we believe that the establishment of the Chamber of Investigation Commission could contribute to the accident in Bečva to address this unsatisfactory situation. We are aware that the proposal to vote on the inclusion of the paragraph of the provisions of the commission of inquiry is to be tabled again at the earliest opportunity after repeated non-approval of the Chamber of Deputies. We therefore ask you to support the forthcoming vote on the establishment of a committee of inquiry for the accident in Bečva, first and foremost on the approval of this proposal for the inclusion of a point at the nearest meeting of the House and subsequently on the approval itself and the provisions of the Commission. Based on an in-depth analysis of the current investigation and an evaluation of the existing findings in collaboration with local actors, which have not yet been provided sufficient room to express and clarify the testimony and context, this commission could shed more light on the investigation of the accident in Bečva. Last but not least, it could also contribute to restoring public confidence in the objectivity of state institutions. Madam, honourable Member, we thank you for considering the support of our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for the accident in Bečva. Thank you. Sincerely, . Stanislav Pernický, Chairman of the Czech Fisheries Union, local organization Hustopeče nad Bečvou, Mgr Jan Husák, organizer of protest meetings, co-author of the petition event PetitionBečva. cz, Lenka Halová, organizer of protest meetings, manager of the Bečva group without poisons, and Mgr Jiří Jurečka, manager of the Group Poisoned Tubs is not indifferent to us." These representatives of the Committee on Petitions therefore address this call to the Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, and I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, to comply with this appeal to the public of the Czech Republic, so that we can include this point as the first point of tomorrow afternoon's meeting after lunch. So far, there is no fixed point, and I would like to ask you to place this point. I think we can handle it if the political will is across the clubs, correctly, quickly, so that we can focus on the next points we have at this meeting. So please make sure you put this point on the middle as the first point after lunch break. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u11	Good afternoon. The honourable Member, honourable Members, Members of the Government, was Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Bartošek with priority rights now. I see another priority right. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have repeatedly spoken to a point at the moment 326, it is the House press 966, so-called lex Dukovany, and I have repeatedly warned colleagues that this is indeed a very complex law that will take many hours of negotiations and will not be easy to discuss. I think the state has shown that this law really has the potential to block any further negotiations, including third readings. For this reason, I propose, in an alternative way: firstly, the House Press 966 disables the agenda so that it does not block the discussion of other points, and in the event that there is no will, then the House Press 966 places at the end of the third reading block, so that we can discuss in peace all third readings that have passed the deadline, and we could discuss these points that are not so complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u13	Thank you. Mr Jan Farský now. We're still on priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to House press 1073, which is included in the first reading of today's negotiations in a deep, unnegotiable zone. It's point 87. Why do I think that this point, the insolvency law, is also important in this crisis covido time? It is a press that the government, the government's bill, submitted to the House on 4 November last year. It even presented it in a state of legislative emergency, with a view to discussing it as much as possible one day. The House did not accept the legislative emergency with the fact that it was worth more discussion. There have been informal agreements that, although there will be no legislative emergency, there will be an effort to discuss this as quickly and as possible to shorten all deadlines. November 2020, now we have March, and the law hasn't even made it to the first reading yet. And why is it so important? By the time the pandemic crisis came, at that time some half a million people were in debt traps, that's half a million people who just don't stand a chance of getting out of debt that they're wearing. The pandemic times, the health crisis will certainly not help, and those people who are trapped in debt will be much stronger. At this point, somewhere around 20,000, 25,000 a year are going through personal bankruptcy, and at this rate, these people simply did not get a chance to get out of this personal crisis. That is why, I suppose, the government proposed this law in a legislative emergency and tried to negotiate as quickly as possible. I think that the government has done the right thing in this case, that the law really needs to be discussed as soon as possible, because it affects the fates of half a million people and their loved ones, and it also needs to be because we are committed at EU level and we have a deadline for implementation by 17 July this year. So it's also because it's our international or transnational commitment, that's why it's worth discussing. [[15.40 hours]] What I would ask you to do at the moment is just to let him go first reading, because I know that there is also support for this in opposition, so I assume that even with the government Members, we do not have to run away to let him go first reading today in order to be discussed in the necessary committees or subcommittees, where necessary, and so that we can see him as soon as possible during this term of office. And I do not see it as the most important reason that we promised at EU level. I think the most important reason is that the law is simply necessary, and when the light at the end of the tunnel is not in a debt trap for these people, we push them to the edge of society, and it is neither economically nor sociologically nor in any other way for the entire society properly. I understand that you have different priorities, and I respect the program as it is designed. I would therefore suggest today that it be discussed after the Houses of the Press 1164, after the electronization of health - laws related, so that after the press 1164 today we discuss the government's proposal for an amendment to the insolvency law, press number 1073. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u15	I thank Mr Farský and another wants to speak on the agenda of the meeting Mr Jiří Mašek, Ivo Pojezný will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of the ANO Group, to propose to include press number 895 - a Senate amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, a so-called weapon amendment. It is about anchoring the right to defend life with a weapon - in the order of the block of first readings for prints 733 and 837, classified from today's Gremium House. So this would be the eighth point in the first reading block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u17	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr Ivo Pojezný, will prepare Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me to propose a whole new item to the agenda for this meeting entitled Information of the Government on the holding of graduation exams in 2021, on Thursday 11. 3:00 p.m., or Friday 12. 3rd, so this Friday, 11 o'clock. In recent days we learn various conflicting information and views on the course of the graduation exams, whether from Mr. Prime Minister Babiš, who proposed an official or some kind of administrative graduation, according to which pupils would not have to pass the classic graduation exam and may have grades according to the average for their entire studies during high school. Those who would not agree with this would proceed to the classic graduation exam, or to the didactic tests prepared by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. It is said that Minister Plaga disagrees with this view, but of course I know that the professional public and a lot of students disagree. Finally, they claim that pupils were able to prepare for their graduation during the entire four-year study period and should therefore compose it in a standard manner. Moreover, some argue that such a test, I think the administrative one, could devalue the study and eliminate some and disadvantage the labour market. According to CERMAT, at present, 73,000 students applied for the spring term, which is to be May 3 to 7, so I think about the tests. Moreover, I heard that the essays from the Czech language and foreign language should be cancelled again and the time for didactic tests should be extended. Oral examinations remain, practical examinations may be postponed by directors for summer, including practical lessons. It is clear that this is of interest to a small part of society and, of course, to colleagues from this honored House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u19	I thank Mr Iv Pojezný for the proposal, now Mr Marek Výborný, Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I had no idea when I signed up for the debate on the agenda of this meeting that I would be able to follow up so fluently with my fellow Pojezný from the KSČM, because I actually came up with a very similar proposal for the KDU-ČSL. I'm gonna rephrase it a little bit, and then I'm gonna allow myself to submit it as a counterclaim against what was said. But the fact is, in the last few days, we've witnessed a debate about what graduation and final exams should look like this school year. I must say that the shot that came from Strakovka, or more precisely, because it was sometime on the weekend, so perhaps from Průhonice by the Prime Minister, I find it very unfortunate. Not only has he not been consulted by the Ministry of Education, but he does not really reflect the real situation in schools. In fact, if we were to approach this extreme solution, which, from my point of view, is possible in a situation where the pandemic situation would get even worse than it is today, we would actually damage the students themselves, because I know from my personal experience that many students are very intensively preparing themselves for the climax of graduation and final exams, and I really do not consider using some average over the last three years to be reasonable and happy. Unfortunately, I still see it as a bit of a spit in the face of teachers who haven't been here for a year on vacation, not even those students are on vacation, but they've been very intensively educated for a year. It is not at all easy for the teachers themselves, and I believe that this preparation - last year's school year, which has actually been in the same regime for the last three months - can lead to some form of real and adequate graduation or final exams. What I miss very much is the information from the Minister of Education, and here I would see it as very important that the public gets it, so that we as Members get it, too, because there is definitely a need for debate. But that's what we've been saying sometime in autumn in that fall wave, that it's necessary to have the variant scenarios ready for graduation and final exams in a situation that the pandemic situation will get worse or just not good, and that we need to inform pupils, students and the public on time, including teachers and school directors. Ladies and gentlemen, on April 1, practical exams start at vocational schools - or should begin - and at this point it is still unclear which model and regime they will eventually be implemented. I can certainly imagine adjusting this model of graduation exams, whether in the form of deadlines, in the form of the composition itself, whether didactic tests or other parts of the graduation exam, but it is necessary to discuss these things quickly and to communicate the information to the public. And because I have noted from Minister Plaga that this week the Ministry wants to have everything tuned out and to convey its idea, and I am glad that it will not be a largely populist idea, as presented by the Prime Minister, because it would really lead to the degradation of graduation and final exams. I am convinced that we, as Members, should receive this information, and I am therefore counter-proposaling for what has been said here to include a new special item entitled Information of the Minister of Education on the Form of Graduation and Final Examination in the School Year 2020/2021. [[15.50 hours]] I am convinced that we, as Members, should receive this information, and I am therefore counter-proposaling for what has been said here to include a new special item entitled Information of the Minister of Education on the Form of Graduation and Final Examination in the School Year 2020/2021. I would like to propose his inclusion for tomorrow, that's Wednesday at 17 o'clock. I am responding to the fact that President Faltýnek has proposed, from 18 o'clock, to include the Information on the vaccination strategy from Minister Blatný, so that we will have 60 minutes to believe that Minister Plaga is capable, perhaps even before Thursday's meeting of the government, which should be, to provide information on the idea of the Ministry of Education, which I hope will also be discussed with expert associations, how the graduation and final exams should take place in this situation. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u21	Thank you, I have a note. Now, Mr Martin Kolovratník, Mrs Kořanová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u22	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I come with a request on behalf of the electoral committee and we ask for a solid inclusion of only one of the polling points block, and it is the first, number 370, motion for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies. It is only two quick votes, so please place firmly tomorrow at 12.50 o'clock, a motion for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u23	Thank you, I have a note. Now, Mrs Kořanová, Dana Balcarová will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I stand before you again and try to place a controversial point, and this is an amendment to the Civil Code. We all know that today's times are difficult, so close family relationships and ties are needed at this time. With its measures, the government often forgot about registered partners, whether it was in the form of preventing the conclusion of a registered partnership or a difficult situation. Therefore, allow me to include in the first reading block the Parliamentary Press 201, it is paragraph 49. My colleague Mašek here proposed the House press, which concerns the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the press 895, so I will ask for his appointment. And if this proposal fails, please include this press after paragraph 239, House press 837. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u25	Okay, I've got both suggestions marked, too. Now, Mrs Dana Balcarová, my colleague Juchelka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a proposal on the agenda for the meeting, and that is that I ask that item 46, the amendment on hunting, is a press of 954, included on Thursday as an invasion novel, print 731, if that is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u27	Yes, for a novel for the press, please? [[Member Balcar: Press 731.]] For 731, yes. I'm sorry I didn't notice. With the replacement card number 17, Mr Lubomír Volný will vote. Now a colleague of Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to today's day when I would like to include item 51, House press 384 on Internet censorship, and I would like to include it in item 49. Or if someone proposes point number 50, because there is a merged debate right here in these two Houses of Press 201 and 211, I would ask that we put it in point 49 or 50 every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u29	Ambassador, is this joint debate voted on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u30	It's not yet, but probably someone can suggest it so I won't be here twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u31	Oh, in that case, it's the press - one more time, please, I'm...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u32	Yes, so I propose to include the House press number 384 after the House press 201. And if anyone proposes press number 211 in the context of the joint debate, then both of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u33	I asked because now my colleague Výborný informs me that there is already a merged debate from the vote. So, of course, in that case, we've already automatically made the resolution... [[Member Juchelka: So, please, Mr President...]] Then there's 49, 50. Yeah, that's 49 and 50 points and a merged debate is given, okay? [[Thank you very much.]] Please. Mrs Helena Válková made a point of fact... so that is not possible. I'm registering you, but after those written applications, I'm counting on you. Now my colleague Petr Třešňák, then Tereza Hyťhová, Mrs Válková, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček - that is the current order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u34	Thank you. Good afternoon. I would like to propose a new item in the meeting - postcovidový-Covide Spa Care, let me explain why. At the time of the ongoing pandemic, it is incredibly important to monitor the burden of hospital capacity, but also to prevent the deterioration of other diseases, even by treating patients properly after a lost covid. Spa care, which is at the world level in the Czech Republic, appears to be the most appropriate solution. Therefore, we propose to the government that the spa be allowed to treat post-covide patients to a greater extent than it is now, so that patients get to the spa as quickly as possible after the lost covid, especially because these patients are not at risk of covid infection, because they have just lost it and are immune to it. Speed is very important for the treatment to have maximum effect, and currently there is also spare capacity at the spa, which, for example, may not be anymore in summer. I'm gonna bring up some more supportive arguments. The spa is already significantly involved in the treatment of post-covide patients, they are also testing patients and employees, and the closure of the spa means the termination of the startup, and this really means a radical reduction in occupancy without being compensated, or the emergence and claim of Antivir A. In addition, the spa has all wellness and similar facilities closed, only healing, and are therefore a full medical facility. So they are the only closed health segment. It's the same as shutting down all non-covid medical facilities, such as dentists or rehabilitation. In addition to this new point, I also propose a firm inclusion as the first point this Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u35	Friday 12th, okay? There. Now, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u36	Well, hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, honourable Members. I would like to propose a point for the Tricolore, namely the Information of the Government to open schools. The children have been at home for a year now and I can assure you that this fact will sign off on their mental health and on their education. We are a country in Europe that has most recently closed schools throughout the pandemic. For almost a year, our pupils and students have been at home. He also associated himself with the fact that in recent days we will read a fight between Prime Minister Babiš and Minister of Education Plaga, who is completely invisible to me in this matter, because, as he claims, he is fighting for schools, but unfortunately no one sees his efforts. The point is that we still don't know, and the students don't know if they're gonna graduate, or if they're gonna be so-called official graduation. This has a lot to do with this point, because if students are to graduate on time, then they need to go back to school, even if it were to be after some groups, even if it were to be with sanitary measures, but they need to go back to school, not to mention practical lessons that haven't actually taken place in a whole year, so they can't even do practical graduations. They're not capable of it. Even Great Britain, when you read from the media, realized that closed schools are basically a way to hell. Yes, it is also a country that has experienced a severe covid wave and has really dealt with many people who have been affected by this pandemic. But even they understood that there really couldn't be closed schools and that the impact would have terrible consequences. [[16.00 hours]] Every day, my teachers, my directors write to me, my students write to me, and they ask me as an MP if the schools will be open, if they still go to school this school year. And what am I supposed to say to them? I don't know. I keep telling them, I don't know, Mr Plaga doesn't go to the House, he doesn't inform us of the MPs, let alone the public. As I said, for me, Minister Plaga is completely invisible to this. I find the words of Prime Minister Babiš absolutely scandalous, and that graduations are not necessary, employers do not require them. This is indeed a scandalous statement that is not worthy of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Graduations are necessary. There are students here who have been preparing for them for four years, and now they don't even know whether or not they're gonna do graduation. So please Mr. Babiš and the Minister of Education to agree, and especially to have Minister Plaga come before us here, finally after those long months, and to tell us how he fights to open schools and what graduation will actually look like. I would like to propose this point either today as the first point of this negotiations, if this were not accepted, as the first point on Thursday at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u37	I've noticed an alternative. I have registered Mrs Válková and Mr Ondráček's factual application, but I can only accept a kind of reaction to the speech, but you cannot propose a point because the last application was at 15.30 to change the agenda. The House would probably have to refuse such a procedure, which is why I draw attention to it. For example, if you want to clarify what has been said here, that is, of course, possible for those points. For example, we will also have to clarify some steps with fellow Chvojka. All this is possible, but a new point is not possible. Tomorrow morning, of course, from 9:30 to 9:30. There's nothing we can do. Do we understand each other? kolega Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u38	Yes, I understand, Mr President. Unfortunately, it is not possible to sign up when one wants to propose one of the points that simply is and cannot be, because this debate has been going on for more than an hour. So be it, we can't possibly do this. I just thank my colleagues, both Mrs Pekarová and Mr Jurečka, who are interested in our topic, which we came up with last week, that is to say the Government's information on vaccination, discussing, if possible, today or tomorrow. I also respect that - unfortunately I cannot give an alternative - what the Chairman of the ANO Group said that we will be discussing this tomorrow at 6 p.m., when the Minister will be present, because without the presence of the Minister of Health, it would be, let's say, useless if we included it now, so I do not share President Faltýnek's opinion that it would be enough for us to have an hour. Unfortunately, no, but thank you, colleagues, for your interest in the point that we included and discussed last week, today or tomorrow to negotiate and get information from the government. The same is true of those points relating to graduation. Thank you for supporting those KSČM points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u39	Okay. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u40	Just to figure out how it works here. We discussed that point last week at the Grémium, the chairman of the KDU club Jan Bartošek asked for it, and last week President Faltýnek said it was not appropriate this week, but okay, we will do it next week at the beginning of the meeting, which is today. And today, President Faltýnek will come and say, "Not today, it's not a good time for the minister, tomorrow at 18. But the government answers to the House, not the House to the government. The request did not fall in this debate, but it fell a week ago. It was even promised that the Minister would be here at 14:00 today and we did not propose different dates as opposition last week, we accepted it. And today we were surprised to learn that the Minister will make time tomorrow from 18 to 19 p.m., maybe until 21 p.m., it's not the law. Under normal circumstances, there wouldn't even be a minister here tomorrow, because the Prime Minister is flying to Israel to consult on vaccinations and the Minister of Health is staying at home. I don't understand what such a journey is for when the Minister of Health stays at home. So, on the contrary, he was supposed to be here today, as promised, we could discuss it, and tomorrow he could fly in the delegation with the Prime Minister. I hope that the official reason that he is not flying with the Prime Minister to gain experience from Israel, a country that is very successful in vaccination and vaccination and we have something to learn there, I completely agree that the reason is not that he will come to the House in 18 to debate vaccination because the original agreement was completely different. So I support the proposal that we discuss this today, and I hope that the Minister, if we place that point, will come here and debate with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u41	That's for sure. If we vote, the Minister will probably have to cancel the program. Mr Vlastimil Válek as Chairman of TOP 09 and then President Marian Jurečka, also with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u42	I would like to support this, because I think that, in particular, the Minister, who is professional and not political, should be prepared to discuss a matter which is absolutely fundamental right now. In addition, I would like to draw attention to one thing that you of you who are not members of the Health Committee do not know, but I know it - an extraordinary health committee is convened on Wednesday after the House's meeting. That means, that's why the Minister chose Wednesday because he won't have to come here twice. I don't know when the emergency health committee will be, but I can't imagine the way it was last time the minister had a three-quarter-hour monologue when he informed us about the tables we received by e-mail, which Professor Dušek repeatedly tells us on the health committee. Rather, we would like to discuss, ask questions and receive brief, clear and understandable answers, which will not be understood by Members, but above all by citizens who will be a clear message to citizens, what is the plan, what is the strategy. But it's hard to realize on Wednesday at six o'clock when there's an emergency health committee meeting. I am very sorry, for me it is a great disappointment such an approach by an expert, non-political minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u43	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u44	Thank you. Mr President, I would very much like that point to be discussed here today, if possible, because it has been promised here since last week. There are things that have been unsolved for months. I will take advantage of Mrs Schillerová, who promised about two months ago that the government would solve - or said that the government had already solved - the issue of taxing compensation to medical and social students who have a duty to work. So, Madam Secretary, I have news from yesterday that this is not resolved, that the other departments still have disputes with the regions, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, about the fact that they are to be taken out of the compensations. So I'm asking you nicely to clean up your government. This too is a matter that should be heard here from the Minister of Health, whether it is resolved, whether you dealt with it methodically, or you make fools of people. So please figure it out. Like other things, when students who have been serving there for several months are writing, and they are in a situation where they are not included in the vaccination wave. These people write and say: What are we supposed to think about, we are serving here, we will serve for weeks, maybe even months, inoculate other groups of residents, and these students are still forgotten. So please, with Minister Blatný, deal with this matter, let the information be submitted here tomorrow. I could keep reading what would be necessary to hear here. I am going back to this again - because the management meeting has changed: I appeal to that point, and I have made a proposal to extend that point so that it is not just about vaccination and vaccination strategy, but about the current situation in the fight within the COVID-19 pandemic and about personnel changes in the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u45	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Madam Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. You have your word, Madam Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, Prime Minister Jurečka, just ask me. Now, as soon as I'm done here, I'm going to have a letter sent to you, which I did at the exact time - I don't know if it's a month, six weeks, eight weeks, I don't know, the date you're going to have there - I sent to the head of the County Association and to all the captains in this country, I left with my signature, coordinated procedure of three ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And that's exactly how they're supposed to proceed. [[16.10 hours]] So, as far as income tax is concerned, I'm gonna pass it on to the General Sorry about the charges, so both departments are gonna put a special grant on it, and they're gonna make up for it. And that's exactly how they're supposed to proceed when they haven't paid it off yet, when they've paid it off, ask for a refund, and so on. I'll have it sent to you right now. So ask me next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u47	Thank you. Mr. Jurečka's right of priority. And I want to get to the vote on the agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u48	Thank you. Why do it easy when you can do it complicatedly? This is such a beautiful example of how the government actually works in many other cases. For one thing, it's information from yesterday. I checked it out. You may have sent the letter, but please make sure those people on the edge got it, too. And if there were men - [[Laughs in the hall.]] I don't know what you're laughing at - whether even the people from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health understood the letter from Minister Schillerová. Because from the information I have, it is evident that some of the relatively high-ranking officials of these two departments have not understood it until today despite the signature of the Madam Secretary on the letter she sent. But I want to say one thing. Legal opinions clearly state that this is not a employment relationship. It's a substitute for a work obligation. What kind of charges are we even talking about here? What kind of subsidies are we here to talk about with these people? Oh, my God, what kind of complex system are you creating? These people have no employment contract. What contributions do we want to talk about from the work obligation imposed here? So please, nicely, do it in a simpler way, in a logical way, and above all on the basis of the laws in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u49	With the response, Alena Schillerová, Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance, applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u50	A beautiful Czech proverb says: "Shoemaker, stick to your hooves. " Yeah? And I've been doing taxes my whole life. So please don't tell me what's going on with the refund tax. I'm sorry, in all humility and respect for you, please don't tell me that. You can't free the replacements, because they're not just replacements for these students, even if I wish them very much. That's why I did the general apologies to this group, and I forgave them the tax. Because replacements are also needed moved soldiers, moved police officers, moved customs officers. They all have replacements, they have a replacement system. So we're gonna set everything free? You can't do that. You'd spill a baby with a tub. There was no other way. And the procedure in that letter is described in detail. If I don't have to come here, I'll have it sent to you right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u51	Now Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u52	So, Madam Secretary, I don't know who's supposed to stick to which hooves, I'd rather not drag them here. It would be an interesting debate. However, President Jurečka asked about the students and you argue the police. I don't think it's a fair debate, and no letter is gonna change that. If the public authorities don't know what to do with your letter, I don't know if the problem is with the sender or the recipients of the letter. I really don't know. But the problem is completely different, scandalous. What are we still dealing with? These students were ordered to work. They've done it, they've helped the company, and we're dealing with this - I know it doesn't apply to them, and the opposition has called for it. So it wasn't your idea, Madam Secretary, but I'm glad you did, because it's perfectly logical. What kind of contributions are we talking about for the required work obligation of students? So let's be specific, let's talk about paragraphs and laws. Then you can eventually lead us out of a mistake. But the fact that these are cops or soldiers or, then you said, firefighters -- yeah, they're in the service, that's another problem. But the question and the whole debate of President Jurečka was directed to the students. So don't pay attention and let's go back to the question of social and health insurance for students who have been ordered to work. That's the thing we're supposed to be discussing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u53	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka once more with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u54	Thank you. Well, as a legislator, I'm trying to stick to what the law says. So, Madam Secretary, I'll take it chronologically. So, under the crisis law, employment is not an employment obligation. Under the Crisis Act, compensation is granted for the imposition of a work obligation, not for wages, salaries, remuneration or other similar transactions. According to Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European What do we want to talk about next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u55	Madam Vice Prime Minister, Secretary of Finance. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let's do it again. That's not that kind of compensation. I don't know if any of you guys were intersecting me, but I don't remember exactly right now. That's the kind of compensation, if you take someone's property, a house, because there's a highway building, so of course you give him some other thing, you give him money, so it's freed. This type of compensation, which replaces the employment ratio - and I, President Stanjur, have exactly been, I have not drawn attention to the soldiers. I just said that it just can't be freed. Even if I had a quick amendment to the Income Tax Act loaded here, I just can't say that we're liberating it with the students, because the type of compensation replacing the employment ratio is related to a whole other number of other people. I was setting an example of soldiers, customs officers, firefighters, or I don't know who, just cops who are now being transferred to another job. That was the debate. The problem, of course, was more complex in social and health. There would have to be a complex legislative process. Therefore, after consulting these three resorts - it was the Ministry of Finance's department that conducted the debate - it was done in the form of subsidies. And that's the subject of that unifying letter for all three departments that I sent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u57	Okay. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u58	Maybe the debate is supposed to be more detailed. I remember the debate about extending the emergency situation and using the emergency law in an emergency state, and we have heard several times here that without emergency conditions, there is no way to impose a duty on students, among other things. Suddenly, the secretary is completely passing away and says - that's a different type of compensation. So what kind of replacements are they? Then tell us the whole story, Madam Secretary. And if the state works like that - and now I'm not talking about pay or salary payments to be exact, cops, firefighters, or soldiers, because they're in the service, they're paid for every month. We're talking about students who aren't working, they're not working, and now they're under an obligation, they're supposed to pay social and health insurance contributions. And our smart state is gonna figure it out so they're gonna pay for it, they're gonna invent a grant title, they're all gonna write grant applications, and then it's gonna pay off. So what kind of grant title? The grant title works by someone asking and someone else sending it to him on the basis of a grant title. And here we're doing it for nothing. We'll employ an army of officials on all sides to do it this way. In fact, we do not know at all, Madam Secretary - and so try to tell us - under what law, when you order medical workers to work, they have to pay social and health insurance. That's what I'm really wondering, based on what law, and then let's talk about it. And let us not say that this would be a long legislative process. How many months has this been true? That's not a new thing. Bad ideas come here in a legislative emergency, and if it needs a change in the law, why didn't it come here? Why would the government prefer to invent a grant title? I don't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u59	Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It is income pursuant to § 6 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Income Tax Act. It's an income. That's why I've pardoned this group of taxpayers with a general pardon. [[16.20 hours]] This isn't about the students having to pay for it, they're not going to pay for it, but basically the grant title is going to be drawn by employers, it's described there, it's gone to all the counties. Now my deputy tells me we don't have a single answer from any county that they don't understand. So if any clerk you know doesn't understand, then refer him to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u61	Thank you. If no one checks in, we'll let go - the chairman of the ODS club still. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u62	I don't know if the Secretary of State is doing this on purpose or not. I was asking about social and health insurance, and she's gonna answer my income tax. Do we understand the difference, Madam Secretary? [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Okay. If you'll be sending it to me in writing, I'd like you to fill in the information on how many employers today's grant title, or yesterday's day, to 8. 3. it used how many cases, how many students it involved, and how much money it was based on this grant title to 8. 3 2021 paid when everyone understands this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u63	Thank you. If no one is reporting and the debate on the programme has been concluded, including the exhaustion of priority rights, we will therefore talk about individual proposals. First, a draft agreement from political grémia. I'm asking if you want to read it again. I'm gonna go, I'm gonna wait. I'm asking if there's any interest in repeating the grémia agreement. If not, then - I just briefly: to reclassify the Government's draft law on further adjustments in the area of social aid benefits, that is in the shortened negotiations, press 1172, which was discussed in the committee, changes in that order, for point 43 to include paragraph 239, to reclassify the following points, namely 1111, 1152, i.e. points 3 and 1, on 23 March, Tuesday. To discuss this week, 9 March, as the first point 56, i.e. printing 980, protection and designation of origin, on Wednesday 10 March discuss in the following order: 1172, social support benefits, that is what we would include today, so that would be a firm classification, as the second one that needs to be discussed. [[correct 989]] Next we would discuss blocks from the third reading of 328, 334, 332, with the fact that on Thursday at 11 o'clock would be point 19. So that's the sum of the agreement on political grémium. That would be the 151 vote that I would launch. I'm asking, who's in favour of supporting this inclusion of those points? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 151, of the 102 Members present for 99 against no one. The political grémia agreement was fulfilled by the fact that we voted for it. We would now follow the proposals. [[Proceeding]] The first person to speak in the debate was Mr Tomio Okamura. He suggested three points, the first point is the immediate cancellation of the emergency as a new point. I do not have the blocking of two parliamentary clubs, but I have here the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, which refers to § 109m para. 2 and 3 of the Act on our Rules of Procedure, with the fact that per analogy, the proposal cannot be put to a vote because it does not, in principle, meet the conditions of two members of Parliament and, respectively, 40 Members. I will give the floor with priority rights to Vice-President Okamur and then we will discuss the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u64	I'll specify my proposal, it'll be a discussion about canceling the emergency situation on a proposal from the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u65	Okay. In that case, the point is not under § 109m and will be put to the vote. It is included - it would be the first in the agenda of today's meeting, as the first point today. We will vote on the discussion of the possible immediate cancellation of the emergency situation as item number 1 of today's meeting in voting number 152 that I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 152 of the 104 present for 20, against 49. The motion was not accepted. The second proposal by Vice-President Okamura is to ensure sufficient quantities and free sales of Isoprinosine. That's like the second point, the first point, when the first one failed. I've started voting number 153 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 153, out of 104 in favour of 22, against 25. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The third vote from Vice-President Okamura's proposal is a call for the Government to reconstruct the government and the demise of responsible ministers. That is, the first point, when the first and the second draft failed. I've started voting number 154 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 154, from 104 in favour of 37, against 40. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider other proposals, this is Mr Faltýnek's proposal, which proposes that we place point 485, this is the Government's information on the vaccination strategy, to 10. 3:00 p.m. There were alternative proposals for this, so we will first vote on the counter-surveillance, with the fact that the proposals were from Mrs Pekarová, from my colleague Jurečka, but that was also the first point for today, yes? [[There's no objection.]] So the press... that is, point 485, counterproposal to make it the first point, as it was recalled in the agreement of the Gremium, this afternoon. We're going to vote 155, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? A vaccination strategy if I simplify it. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 155, 104 for 51 Members present, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. So we're going to vote on the original proposal, so that's tomorrow at 18 o'clock. I've started voting 156 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 156, 104 for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[16.30 hours]] We will continue with Mr Chvojka's proposals, namely in the first reading block for item 44, 45 to include points 108 and 109, i.e. House prints 1161 and 1162. We will decide in the vote number 157, which I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In votes 157 out of 104 present for 47, against 24. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal - that was a transfer from a colleague of Pekarová, who we have already voted on. We now have Mr Jurečka's proposal, and this is the inclusion of the Committee of Investigation on Bečva, the creation of an investigation committee. It is House document 7332. We're going to decide on this item in the 158 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask... [[Noise in the hall and a note off the microphone.]] Sorry, solid point classification. I'm sorry. Voting number 158 is misguided. And we're going to vote again, and that's a solid point... And now I don't have a note. Mr. Chairman, I wasn't driving when you spoke...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u66	If I may, first thing tomorrow after lunch break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u67	Okay, so Wednesday 14.30, yes, we got that straight. Once again, I am voting on the fixed classification of the item - the investigation committee on the Bečva crash - tomorrow 14.30. I have begun voting 159 and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 159, out of 104 in favour of 50, against 3. The motion was not accepted and the alternative proposal was not here. So we will continue to consider President Bartošek's proposal, first to remove the low-carbon energy point from the agenda of this meeting, or, alternatively, the end of third readings, okay. So first of all, take this point out of this meeting. I've started voting number 160. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 160, out of 103 in favour of 34, against 55. The motion was not accepted. So now the alternative - to add this point to the end of the third reading. I've started voting 161 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 161, out of 104 in favour of 34, against 23. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore continue with Mr Jan Farský's proposal to include, today after press 1164 press 1073 - insolvency. I've started voting number 162 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 162, from 105 to 40, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We are getting to the next proposal, namely Mr Jiří Mašek, who proposed that we put the House press 895, paragraph 48 in press 733, for today's day. We're going to decide in the 163 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? That's the Senate proposal - weapon legislation. Who's against it? Voting number 163, out of 104 for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we are going to discuss this point so firmly. We now have Mr Ivo Pojezný's proposal to include a new item - information from the Government on the holding of graduation exams and final examinations in 2021. We have two alternatives from Mr Pojezný and an alternative from Mr Marek Výborný, who is counterproposal and we will vote first. That means it would be Wednesday, 17 hours, and the other alternatives are 11. 3:00 p.m. or Friday 12. 3:00 p.m. These are the three alternatives, but the first vote is counterproposal. [[A note from the MP off the microphone.]] Well, I took it as a counterproposal, Mr. Ambassador. I know you've had a more widespread text of the program, but you said it was counterproposal against a fellow Pojezný. If you want it on your own... So it's a counterproposal. Okay. We are voting in the vote number 164, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of putting this point on Wednesday at 17 o'clock? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 164, 104 for 54, against no one. The proposal was adopted on Wednesday, 17 o'clock. That settles these three votes. And now we're going to vote on... And the vote check... Mr. Chairman Chvojka... Mr Antonín Staněk is reporting for the Social Democracy Club. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I was against the proposal, and I've got a pro on the high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u69	Okay. We will decide on the non-compliance between the minutes of the vote and the will of the Member in the vote number 165, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the adoption of the proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 165, 104 for 99 against no one. The motion was accepted. [[16.40 hours]] We will therefore repeat the vote on the issue of math tomorrow at 17.00. We're going to vote 166, and I'm going to ask who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 166, out of 103 in favour of 49, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the alternatives proposed by Mr Pojezný, and that is first to be 11. 3rd at 11.00, but there is a fixed point of political grémia, so whether it can be like the second point after 11.00. A colleague of the Holy Father agrees. We will decide in the vote number 167, which I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 167, out of 103 for 61 Members, against no one. The motion was accepted. We set it up the day after 11:00 as a second point. We are now going to vote on another proposal, and this is Mr Martin Kolovratník, and that is the vote point of change in the House bodies for tomorrow at 12.50. Yes, the President of the Election Commission. We will decide in the vote number 168. I said, who's in? Tomorrow, 12.50 changes in the House's organs. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 168, 103 present, 98 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on another proposal, and this is the joint debate of the press 201 and 237, it is the first reading of the amendment to the Civil Code, after printing 895... 211, sorry, 211. So we'll decide in the vote number 169. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 169, 103, for 54, against 21 Members. The motion was accepted. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club... I beg the peace of the House! [[In an elevated voice.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u70	Mr Vice-President, I do not fully understand what we have voted on because, according to the approved programme before us - without the changes we have so far approved - point 201 is after paragraph 895.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u71	211... 895 is scheduled for today after the vote. [[Off-the-Mike briefing.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u72	Well, the proposal didn't sound like that... that we voted to switch points 211 and 201. I don't understand what we actually voted on. I say it: 201 are behind us, the debate is merged, I do not question it, but the points are behind us and we put them where? [[211?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u73	For point 49... 48... as 49 for point 48.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u74	Yes, and if you look at the program before the vote today, if, Mr Vice-President, you can read what point 49 is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u75	They're there, that's true, but I wasn't talking...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u76	So we voted on what's already on the invitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u77	Like this. Mr President, I cannot refuse the honourable Member's proposal when, moreover, we voted on the political grémium proposal to reschedule item 48.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u78	No, it was not a political grémia proposal, it was here from the diaper, and the proposal made by the Member did not have anything to do with the proposal made by Mr Mašek. So we're doing magic with the program. It doesn't make any sense. I think the vote was misguided, so point 49 stays where it has been since this morning, that's all we've done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u79	Thanks for the heads-up, but I think so, misguided by the fact that we have changed two points, which, first of all, from the grémium and then, on the proposal of Mr Mašek, we have included 895 for today. So that point, that print 201 and 211, is classified as point 48, and it would essentially follow point 44. Yeah? [[The President shall be consulted.]] I'll deal with the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u80	I would therefore ask, Mr Vice-President, to look at the tapestry, as the motion for a vote has been made. I really think it was confusing, and the only thing we can lean on when we look at the tape screen is exactly what the proposal we voted on sounded like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u81	I can declare the vote misguided and clear it with the plaintiff. [[Member of Stanjura: Yes, thank you.]] And we'll vote again. Yes? [[Member of Stanjura: Yes.]] I need a moment to get this straight with her. [[Consulting off the microphone.]] Thank you. I declare the vote number 169 confusing and repeat the motion as Mrs Kořanová and I have specified it. After voting for the press 837 on the agenda for today's meeting we are in the block of first reading... we would put the press 201 and 211 in the merged debate in the first reading block, and that would follow in that new order ahead of the points, current points 44 and 45. So it's wedged before point 44, right? That would be the current proposal, wouldn't it? In substance, this would have been included before the Civil Card Act and the Civil Card Act related. So it would be wedged in front of the IDs, the 201 and 211 prints, right? Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u82	I understood the intention of the proposal, but I think the proposal was wrong, because I think the proposal was meant to sound that we should have met the intention that point 49 and point 50 were to be referred to paragraph 44. Otherwise, it would have to be a parole proposal, and it didn't. The conditional proposal would be: if point 48 is moved beyond point 43, then I propose a new point 44, which is the old point 48, to include points 49 and 50. Because we have decided to do so independently of the proposal relating to points 201 and 211. I understand the intention, but we have to proceed precisely and there was no conditional motion to move the point. If the aim was to skip the points of Minister Hamáček's IDs and related, that's how it was supposed to sound in the debate. Because if we did not accept the transfer of paragraph 48 to point 43, the vote would sound like we're proposing that paragraph 49 become paragraph 49, and we may agree that the House would not have to vote on that because it doesn't make any sense. So I don't think this proposal is voteable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u83	Thank you, Mr President, but I cannot allow it to vote on a proposal that is legitimately made, even though we have to make it clear to ourselves because it has been reassigned. And I didn't say it was unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u84	But Vice-President, that is not possible! I therefore wanted the tape to be completely clear about what was said. But I'm sure it wasn't a conditional motion, so we can't vote on it if it doesn't sound that way, depending on how another vote goes. I object to that, not to the intention of moving it. If it were intended to skip points 44 and 45, the proposal sounded completely different, and then we could forgive ourselves for the debate, but he didn't. Then he should have heard it was conditional. It should have been said: if you approve of moving the House Press item 837, then I propose moving points 201, 211. I'm afraid the proposal didn't come up, but maybe I'm wrong, which is why I wanted to see the tape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u85	Once again, I am not the promoter of the proposal and it is my duty to vote on the proposal of the individual Members or Members who have spoken here. That it needs to be formulated vaguely, that can't be done, that's what everyone has to deal with. However, I repeat that I have declared the vote 169 confusing, and we will therefore be voting on it in a new way, so that prints 201 and 211 in the merged debate will be preceded by paragraphs 44 and 45, which means the Civil Card Act. That's a suggestion, as we specified with the petitioner. Do we understand each other? I've started voting number 170, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 170, out of 102 in favour, against 10. The motion was accepted. We will now deal with Mrs Dana Balcarová's proposal, and she proposes that the 954 press be classified as a press... Mr Chvojka once more. [[The speaker Vácha is coming to the speaker. There's restlessness, noise.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u86	Hello, thank you for your word. I've got a high for, I've been stalling, I've voted against, I'm questioning the vote. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] I've been stalling, I've got a high for, I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-000-000.u87	Yes, Mr František Vácha objected to the electronic registration of the result of the vote, with the fact that his will is different from that of the minutes. On the objection we will put to the vote number 171, which I have launched, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 171, 104, for 96, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on Mrs Ožanová's proposal to include a merged debate on the amendment to the Civil Code and on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms before paragraphs 44, 45. Everyone understands what is proposed? Everyone. Thank you. I've started voting number 170... [[Voices from the O.R.]] Before! I said... Let's do it again. I declare the vote number 172 confusing and repeat once again in a clear manner. Prints 201, 211 in the merged debate would be placed in front of the IDs, paragraphs 44 and 45. Do we understand each other exactly now? [[Affirmative from the O.R.]] Thank you. We will decide in the vote number 173, which I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 173, out of 103 in favour of 53, versus 13. The motion was accepted. Now we will continue again. In the vote 174, we will decide that printing 954 would be classified as printing 731, so that is item 46, for item 6. We will decide in the vote number 174, which I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 174, 104 for 94, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on Mr Juchelka's proposal, which proposed to include the 384, censorship on the Internet, for points 49, for Mr Kořanová. I'm gonna check you all out one more time. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. When the number of entries has settled, we would have included 201 and 211 behind the merged debate on the press - colleague Marek Výborný reporting? No, okay. [[17,00 hours]] So print 384, as suggested by a colleague named Juchelka. I've started voting number 175 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 175, 102 for 61 Members present, against 4. The motion was accepted. We will now look at the inclusion of a new point, so first of all the inclusion of a point, then we would talk about it being on Friday, as my colleague Třešňák suggested, and this is post-covide spa care, information from the Minister of Health. Yes? We all understand what's going on? Who wants to put this item in this meeting? I've started voting number 176 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 176, 103 for 46, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will not deal with the fixed classification of the point. We now have a final proposal, and this is Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, who wants the Government's information on the opening of schools, today as the first point of this meeting, or alternatively on Thursday at 11 o'clock. Yes? We will decide in the vote number 177 that it would be the first item today. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 177, 103 for 55, versus 7. The motion was accepted. By doing so, I have exhausted all the proposals, and now we will follow the approved agenda of the meeting. [[A commotion in the hall.]] The first item under this last vote is:
