ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u1	52. Government bill amending Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social-Legal Protection of Children, as amended, and other related laws /German press 911/ - first reading So we will now act as soon as the situation and discussions on issues other than social-legal protection of children calm down, it will be transferred to the foyer. Colleagues and colleagues, please calm down! Thank you. Now, under the authority of the Government, the 911 press will be presented by Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, hello. The aim of this amendment, this bill, is to help children who have had great misfortune in life since the beginning of their lives. The aim is to provide them with quality family replacement care because they cannot grow up with their parents and the role of the state is to provide adequate care for these children. You probably know that there are about 8,000 children in the Czech Republic currently living in institutions, of which about 1,500 are under three years of age. Perhaps we do not need to discuss that the consequences of institutional care are often borne by these children for the rest of their lives, and we want to change that. When we negotiated this amendment to the law, we introduced it yesterday, with representatives of various forms of foster family care, so I mentioned that I do not want to choose between the different forms of foster family care, because I think that everyone has an important role to play in the whole system and everyone is important. However, I would like to address three fundamental questions now. The first one's foster care. As the growing problem of foster care is, it shows a lack of foster care for a transitional period, which are basically ready to take the child into short-term care within twenty-four hours. [[11.50 hours]] While 651 families provided temporary foster care at the end of 2017, last year it was only 631 families and at the end of last year, that is, at the end of 2020, it was only 593 families. New foster parents barely check in. The reason will be financial. Transitional foster parents now have only CZK 20,000 gross, with taxes regardless of the number of children they care for. I would like to point out that these people have managed to solve many difficult crisis situations, and that is why, although we are proposing 22,000 gross in the government version, this means an increase of 2 000, I think that an adequate remuneration for temporary foster parents would be CZK 30,000. However, a positive change in the government's draft is that a one-off allowance of between CZK 8 and CZK 10,000 per child's age will be granted to foster parents for a transitional period. That is what I think is a great positive that we have managed to negotiate at the government level. Furthermore, of course, we have a logical lack of professional long-term foster parents, especially for sibling groups or for children with disabilities. We therefore propose an increase in the remuneration for long-term foster parents. I guess I don't have to mention that the amendment to this law wasn't eight years old, which is why the amounts are relatively unvalorized, as is unfortunately the case for almost all target groups and for the batch system in general, which is in charge of the MPSV, and those amounts are valued through the law. The question is, shouldn't it change? We'll talk about that later. Long-term foster parents who care for siblings or children with disabilities: when caring for a child in the first degree of addiction, we propose an increase from 12 to 18,000 a month, when caring for two children from 18 to 20,000 crowns a month. After eight years, I think the increase is adequate. Of course, I wish that the reward would be increased for all professional foster parents. It would be best, as I have already mentioned, to find a system that would be transparent and that would be validated on a regular basis, for example, despite the rate of remuneration of a foster child, which would be linked to a minimum wage, so that there would really be regular valuation and it might not always be the subject of an amendment to the law. In particular, I will seek support for this proposal in the Social Committee, not only on the basis of discussions from recent weeks and months. The amendment also proposes higher support for professional services for foster families. These are also crucial for preventing early termination of foster care. There will therefore be an increase in the state contribution to the performance of foster care from CZK 48 to CZK 54 000 per year for the authorities and organisations that work with foster organisations and offer them assistance in managing demanding care for entrusted children. Here again, the organization mentions it as an ideal of CZK 60,000. I am willing to discuss this on the Social Committee and also with my government colleagues so that, indeed, in this very difficult time, all forms of family care can be supported. As far as ZDVOPs are concerned, the amendment contains modifications concerning equipment for children requiring immediate assistance, so-called zdvop. It is a crisis facility that provides protection for children who find themselves without any care and need to give a quick hand. Perhaps we all know the heartbreaking stories of children, when after a very difficult family situation must be done very quickly. The amendment increases the state contribution from CZK 22,800 to CZK 30,000 per month to one child. Increase In recent years, costs, wages, etc. have increased. The fund of children at risk, as I spoke to the principal yesterday, considers the ideal of CZK 32,000. If I manage to negotiate support with both the Ministry of Finance and within the Social Committee, I would like to raise this contribution by the additional CZK 2 000, because I think this is really necessary. In recent years, this annual financing was managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs through a grant title, but it is extremely administratively demanding for both beneficiaries and the Ministry. It is also important for the ZDVOPs to stress that their maximum capacity will be reduced from the current 28 children to 20 children so as to bring these devices closer to the family environment, and I think this is a very good step. With regard to infant formulas, another significant change is the limitation of the possibility of placing children under three years of age in former infant formulas, today children's centres. They're in the department of health. Child care is the most expensive: 44 500 crowns cost roughly a place in the institute, 20,000 crowns in foster family care, 7 200 costs field work with the family. It's very clear from the numbers. In the amendment, we therefore prohibit placement in children's homes for children under three years for social reasons. I think that's a step in the right direction. More The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs cannot do this from the point of view of the division of competences, but I personally believe that the infant constitutions are a relic of the past and should have been abolished long ago. I therefore support Mr Juchelka's proposal. This is the House press 944. It is an amendment to the Health Services Act, where it is proposed to abolish infant formulas. I personally support this very much, and I think we should do everything we can to find another, better solution. The last thing I'd like to comment on is a provision. This is a novel, very important thing that we have prepared on the basis of incentives from the field. It's actually the support of teenage children who leave foster care, and basically from day to day they find themselves, I'll say it to the public, on the pavement. I think that the state should help these children, who leave their homes in particular, to help them. Therefore, for young adults who want to study after the end of institutional or foster care, this means to continue their education, to study, we propose the introduction of a so-called provision allowance of CZK 15 000 per month. Logically, the condition of this provision - because when these young adults study, they do not have parents who would take care of them, that is, they are dependent only on themselves - so compliance with the study is a condition, as well as compliance with the individual plan in cooperation with the social curator. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to sum this up. About CZK 180 million is expected to increase the expenditure of the state budget annually as regards the financial effects of the amendments. Given the cost of long-term inappropriate institutional care for children, investing in foster family care is a very good step. I think that vulnerable children, children who have actually had great bad luck since the beginning of their lives, deserve our support and we should invest in all forms of foster family care. Each has its own role in the system, and each one is needed. The reason for the aid in an advanced society should not only be a financial or economic aspect, but, in particular, a human one. I think we can agree that children should not end up in institutions, that the family environment is very important to them. And I would also like to stress that we need to place emphasis on preventing children from being taken from biological families, and if this cannot be prevented from taking this drastic step, we must set up a high-quality and available alternative family care system, because the child's interest must always be fundamental to us. That's the point. There must always be a vital interest in the child. Therefore, I believe that when discussing the amendment, we will all think primarily of the children, and I am very prepared for the debates that await us in the coming weeks, and I beg you very much to support this law or this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u3	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. I will now ask Mr Marek Novák's rapporteur to present his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, I will complement the Minister's speech. First of all, we do not have any fundamental and conceptual change in the area of social and family protection. Rather, it is a summary of measures by which distribution in the dose area is balanced. I consider it important to mention, in particular, the increase in foster benefits, or the discussion of the increase in foster benefits and the state contribution for children's facilities requiring immediate assistance. There is also a provision for young adults after the end of the care, and I think there will probably be a very fruitful discussion on that point. It is an effort to alleviate the adverse social situation after the loss of care, especially in students under 26 years of age. The proposal prefers alternative family care especially for children with disabilities and sibling groups. It supports the trust of vulnerable children in foster care for a temporary period of time as alternatives to its placement in institutional care. The proposal further prevents the placing of the youngest children in foster care precisely for social reasons. Finally, the proposal itself represents the efficiency of certain procedures and processes based on the knowledge of practice, for which I am very pleased. Technically, it is an amendment of a number of regulations that are related in substance. It is a law on social-legal protection of children, a law on insurance against public health insurance, a law on state social support, a law on social services, a law on assistance in material distress, a law on health services and a law on special judicial proceedings. There are quite a lot of the standards that this proposed amendment applies to. However, I would also like to mention here that this proposal was put in the comment procedure on 20. 12. 2019. It was actually our anniversary year at Christmas. With this, however, three other standards were introduced, and given that the time of Christmas was coming, the closing time, a lot of the organisations concerned, which may be expressing themselves, complained that they had little time precisely because of the fact that they had been put into the comment procedure at this very time. Of course, I'm not accusing anyone that it was on purpose or not. I just want to say it here. Personally, I believe - because of this, too, in quotation marks due to the Christmas term of short notice proceedings, although according to the law everything was done as it should - I believe that we will correct this here and discuss this amendment in due time. Personally, I also want to mention that it is necessary to focus outside the above mentioned also on so-called accompanying organisations, because it is from the field and specifically from specific foster parents that we have feedback that these organisations do not always carry out their work as they should. It doesn't always fill everything they have, and here it would be appropriate to think about this. That's all on my side. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to further discussions on this subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. Mr Petr Dolínek is the first member of the general debate. Mrs Válková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u6	Thank you. I would like to thank both the Minister and the rapporteur for introducing us to the timeline quite in detail. And the timeline clearly shows that the proposal for this standard - or the amendment to that standard - is not new and that everyone had time to form not only their opinion, but also to prepare a text of proposals that they would like to use as an amendment. Therefore, I would like to propose here that we reduce the deadline for discussion by 30 days, although I am aware that the Social Committee is receiving two rather difficult standards today, and then, of course, I am aware that the competence committee has a big agenda, but I hope that, as the Minister has described it, we are aware that we are treating a subject that is very sensitive, especially at this time complex, and that any assistance that comes from the state and comes in time will be useful and actually useful twice as long as people know that we want them. So my proposal is simple, to shorten it by 30 days of negotiation. I firmly believe that I will find support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u7	Thank you, and now Mrs Helena Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, first of all I am glad that we finally have this proposal at first reading. Secondly, therefore, the rapporteur has openly said something that has also taken me by surprise. At the turn of 2019-2020, or in 2019, because we are a commentary place, as an office of government and Human Rights Commissioner, we had little time and had to apply a number of fundamental comments that were taken into account. Of course, the criticism that could be heard here is that it is not a complex amendment and that it would deserve even more extensive amendments to the related legislation. On the other hand, the most screaming shortcomings, and I will not repeat it and delay it, here they have been listed, both as regards the abolition of infant formulas and as regards foster care, especially the children - they are still children leaving the institution - they need support, and here we owe them. And if we did not do this, then at least, let's say, we didn't just do the resort, but the government, and actually we, as then the Chamber of Deputies, didn't do the task we had at the beginning of the parliamentary term: improving the care of children who are at risk or who, of course, not by their own fault, need our help. So definitely, yes, yes. In view of the fact that this has a number of implications, I will therefore propose, as one of the committees and the constitutionally-legal committee, because without wanting to delay the discussion of this press, there are still things that should be adjusted as part of the second reading, so I would like you to see this as an effort to correct, not unnecessary obstruction. If it doesn't pass and it's just a social committee, I'll be able to live with it. In addition, I wanted to point out one more thing that the law that follows, the amendment to the Health Services Act, in some areas, is still catching up on what has been said here, so I'm sure we'll be talking about it in a few moments. I like that it has succeeded in including it and that whoever is interested in this issue will see it as a systemic step. Despite the criticism that I mentioned here a little bit, I also thank the Minister that she managed to bring it to this stage, and it's up to us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u9	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who is now entering the debate, will speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I have been waiting for more discussion on this amendment, but maybe it will take place on the Committee on Social Policy. However, there is nothing new that this amendment is a very expected amendment, and more or less the Minister has been promising it for almost a year. So it may be very sad that he only gets to the meeting now, but in any case, I think - thank you for the clue, Madam Secretary - I think there are things that are really important to discuss. Yesterday I spoke for Czech Television and spoke about this area. I must say - in fact, it was after the briefing of the Minister at two o'clock - and I must say that I am quite disappointed that the Minister has expressed a regrettable position that in this proposal we are not talking about abolishing institutional care for the smallest children, that is to say, within three years, so-called infant formulas or children's centres, as we speak. [[12.10 hours]] And the editor tells me that we are actually a rarity in the Czech Republic. I know there are different opinions about me, that I'm in favour of institutional care and I'm against foster parents and so on. I must say that this is not the case and that I wish that these two camps should finally cease to rebel against each other. I am more or less convinced that they have a place in the Czech Republic when I say so, both of them. I am saying this because the arguments raised in the context of institutional care are very much given because there is ignorance of care, how it actually takes care of the children, what is provided to them and under what circumstances the children get there, versus so-called transitional foster parents who - and was the idea of caring for the smallest children. But no one says in practice that we in the Ústí Region, for example, when children have to leave the family and so on, that to a large extent we are not talking about just one child or two, but we have sibling groups where we also talk about three, four, five or six, and there is no exception to an eight-member sibling group. Yes, of course, they are older children too, but to a large extent, these few siblings can be children of three or four years of age, and then they will be dealt with as they will be placed. When I once asked about the Committee on Social Policy for Temporary Fosters, if they were able to take care of two or more of these children, which had to be placed for some reason, none of them answered me. I also know from practice - and I have spoken to long-term foster parents - that the effort of some temporary foster parents is already so that they can take care of at least two children, but I have to say that they are not so-called. And that is why I say that institutional care should still be a part of the Czech Republic, and also because there are mainly children in institutional care who have serious health problems and which we would hereby condemn to be in hospitals all the time, where we simply - I think we will all realize that these children do not belong. And even those parents who visit children very often because they just can't take care of them at home for some reason, and they're not just abandoned children, so I think it would be a great frustration for them to have these children lying in a hospital environment. I therefore say that I would very much hate for us to get into this discussion, thanks to this proposal, that we want to abolish constitutional care for the smallest children in the Czech Republic because it has its place. And I, unfortunately, if we have these seriously disabled children here, whether physically or next, I will stand by the need to have this care. I am also very concerned about the funding itself. We wanted it, and we wanted it so badly, that the facilities requiring immediate care would be financed on a flat-rate basis and without cutting the parts of the so-called denins, that is to say, this is the part where the child is not within this facility for some reason. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. Although there has been an increase in the proposal to 30,000, but in any case, we think that the amount could also be 28,000, but if it is ensured that it will be a lump sum for the devices, and it doesn't matter if it is Klokánek, because of course it's set up by someone else, or if it's really a device requiring immediate care, like in children's homes or other entities, the device would be sure that it's going to get that amount, of course, even on the bed. Unfortunately, this has not happened, which means that it will probably also be one of our proposals that we will be submitting. I'm saying this because we were really counting on the people on the edge who were doing this. The denin count itself makes them completely unhappy. It's actually just that in quotes, it's useless work that they have to... and it's taking their time, and they have to count it all the time. And, of course, even those organizations have to report it, and it's a lot of money that they're losing after that. For example, we would like to see at least this 2,000 increase in income from long-term foster parents, because the trend in the Czech Republic, and now thanks to the covid, I feel that almost everything has stopped here, so it is necessary to talk about it again, that the support of long-term foster parents - and I would not be afraid to say that I would rather we go back to adoption, because even a long-term foster parent has an effect for a child under 18, usually until 26, if he starts studying, but adoption, that's when you just want to have the baby and you want to take care of it and you want to have it as your own. And there's no more help from the state. You adopt a child, you have to go through an awful circle, you have to prove almost everything, but you're more or less not entitled to any more, whether financial or any other help, like the way the foster parents now have it. And I think that's a mistake. At least there should be some claim, because the problems that long-term foster parents face, such as children who come to puberty, are certainly the same for parents who adopted a child. Here I think the proposal from the Department of Labour for long-term foster parents is insufficient and we should talk about it. So what got to me was a proposal for funding accompanying organisations, which means their financial reward. I can tell you that they spoke to us on the edge: in that case, I am in office and I am going to be accompanying the organization, because it will feed me and I will be very good at it without any problems. I am embarrassed that we are even talking about such an increase, and I have even seen a letter when the accompanying organizations themselves wanted a much higher amount. It's inappropriate for me. And I am not afraid of this amount, which is proposed in this proposal, to reduce it again and to put it back in the foster home, because for me, I think that what they provide for the care of the foster parents themselves, maybe we should do a round table and invite the foster family to tell us from their own experience how unfortunately some of the accompanying organizations are literally dealing with the foster parents themselves and offer them some money for coming to them just because they will receive this financial support right now. And then, as a result of the care itself, I guess that's what we could say to each other. I am very proud that our Ústí Region does not allow these things between non-profit organizations and is trying to make the accompanying work within the municipalities or municipalities of Trojan municipalities and regions. And I have to say, maybe so; some people don't like that our criteria are very harsh, but we care about the children in particular, so I will always stand behind them. And I'm very glad they're going this way. We know about some of the regions that they didn't drop it, or that they let it go, and then we have, like, horrible stories that are happening. And I probably shouldn't mention it here. I think it's probably all on the Social Policy Committee. For us, I think that we will introduce several amendments, some I have talked about here, and I look forward to hearing in the Committee on Social Policy. But I frankly say that KSČM will not be in favour of shortening deadlines, because it is such a delicate topic that it deserves to be discussed properly, because we will be discussing, above all, the fundamental changes that could occur in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is to be heard in the debate, so I am ending the general debate. There's no interest in final words. There was no motion for a return or rejection, so we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Is there any other proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not. We will therefore vote on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. [[12.20 hours]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 205, 89 Members signed in for 78, against no one. The motion was accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. However, in the debate, Mrs Válková's proposal on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee, she will repeat the proposal, let it be formally okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u12	Yes, you said so, Mr Vice-President, so I merely confirm what you said that I propose ordering yet another committee, not a guarantee, constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-009-052.u13	Yes, is anyone else suggesting the commandment to another committee? No. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 206, 92 Members registered, for 75, against no one. I note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee and the Committee on Social Policy will be a committee of guarantee. The last thing to be dealt with by the vote is Mr Dolínek's proposal to reduce the deadline by 30 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 207, 93 Members signed in for 56, versus 6. The proposal was accepted and the deadline was shortened. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. Now there's a point number in front of us.
