ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1025/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Kurzarbeit is the best protection against redundancies, it is the best insurance against the vicious circle of unemployment and more and more deepening economic crisis. I guess we don't have to mention or repeat that it always depends on the details of the cursarbeit. I like to use the expression that cursarbeit must be a well-oiled machine in which every tiny part fits into the others. In order for Cursarbeit to function, as it has been in Germany for decades, it must be fast, non-bureaucratic, and must not support jobs that have no future. That's what we're dealing with over the parameters right now. The benefits of cursarbeit are presented. People don't lose their jobs, they don't lose their income, so they pay their bills, they spend, in the economy consumption doesn't drop, and the state saves on benefits. In any case, it's cheaper than unemployment. Firms then essentially do not lose employees, in which they have invested in different ways for many years. All the more important is the cursarbeit in the crisis that we are facing now, which, if it is likely to go away, we can follow up, or at least we would all like it, on the economic development of February 2020. Another big advantage is that after the end of the cursarbeit, which is to be limited in time, the state will gain space during the operation of the cursarbeit to put the economy back on its feet, the company has room for modernisation and employees can be educated. But now it's important. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to get to the third reading as quickly as possible on this very important bill. I have two reasons. The antivirus must end after 12 months, you know that the European rules clearly state that it is a 12-month programme and it will be over by mid-March at the latest, this very successful government programme, and for this reason we must hurry after several months of discussions just until the third reading, so that we have functional cursarbeit from 1 March. I would therefore like to ask you to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days, and to process it further. I would just like to see it at a time when we are discussing further tightening up due to the pandemic situation, whether in Germany or in Austria, when we are discussing that we need to introduce the 6th degree "dog" so that we do not essentially throw Czech economy, Czech companies into further uncertainty and that we may be ready to save jobs. [[PES]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that unemployment is growing slightly. At this point, we are at 4.4 percent unemployment, and it is almost 320 000 people who have lost their jobs. We do not need to mention that companies are running out of financial reserves, and therefore I would really like to ask you as cordially as possible to reduce the deadline for third reading to seven days, so that next week, at the end of January, we will go through the third reading so that the Senate still has all February to comment on the legislative proposal and that we can complete the legislative process. It is really important for the Czech economy, the world is moving on, and I think, and I am prepared to do so, that in that week or perhaps a little bit more, in eight days we could discuss all the details. I'm ready to do this day and night, any one of you will be interested in us actually moving on. Uncertainty is high and rapid progress is important from my point of view. So please, let's discuss the substantive setting of cursarbeit and not leave Czech companies, especially Czech companies, to Czech employees in the lurch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee, and the press was also directed to the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 1025/2 to 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, as rapporteur, would like to sum up the current developments in the negotiation of the bill amending Act No. 435, about employment, so-called cursarbeit. The government submitted a bill on 25 September last year, and that day it was sent out as press 1025. On a proposal from the Government, the President of the House declared a situation of legislative emergency, i.e. a brief hearing without first reading, and ordered this press to the Committee on Social Policy. The actual discussion of the bill was initiated on 30 September at the 60th meeting of the House and the resolution on the legislative emergency was not approved. The first reading took place on 7 October at the 61st meeting, as has already been said here, the Committee on Social Policy was set up by the Guarantee Committee and the press was ordered to discuss the Committee on Economic Affairs. Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 59th meeting of 4 November 2020 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 435, on employment, reads: "After the justification of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, the report by Mrs Lenka Dražilová and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u5	I also thank you for the news report. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Jan Bauer's economic committee to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in his committee and also to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u6	Mr Vice-President, you have a very shortened resolution from the Economic Committee under number 1025/3 in the system. The short-term economic committee discussed this material on 20 October 2020, and the resolution is that it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the 1025 House press, as amended by the amendments approved. I am not going to read the four amendments here, but I am just refreshing your memory that these are the amendments made by Mr Pavel Juříček at the meeting of the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which many Members are enrolled, but I have the authority here to present my opinion on the SPD movement for Mrs Lucia Šafránková. It is from the vice-chairman of the MP's club, I assume the President agrees, and the Member is reporting. So please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u8	Thank you for your word. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to the SPD's position and also to the amendments that we are proposing. The SPD movement has long promoted the systemic, legal, economic and social protection of Czech employees, businessmen, small and medium-sized Czech companies and employers. The same applies, of course, to the proposal to amend the Employment Act, or to the setting of a long-term model of support for employees and employers at the time of partial employment and the limitation of the operation of enterprises due to the general crisis situations for which the term cursarbeit has been used. Members of the SPD have also supported all meaningful proposals from the beginning of the Coronavirus, which meant helping citizens and entities affected by the impact of restrictive government measures under emergency conditions. We have also tabled dozens of our own proposals here in the House, aimed at the direct support of those groups of citizens for whom the government has forgotten in financial compensation, or provided them with very little help. [[16.30 hours]] The essence of the proposals put forward by coalition Members is the idea of introducing so-called support at a time of partial employment or unemployment. Of course, we support this idea as such in the SPD, especially because the difficult time we are experiencing requires a similar systemic change. In the current situation, it can no longer be met only with normal economic and social policy instruments. The priority must be the systemic prevention of more unemployment, with the combined decline of tens of thousands of our citizens into serious existential problems and the collapse of tens or hundreds of Czech companies. In terms of the form and parameters of the so-called cursarbeit, it is absolutely essential for us that workers should also be entitled to support at the time of partial employment in a fixed-term employment relationship if they have worked with the employer for at least three months. We refuse to have tens of thousands of these employees thrown overboard during the crisis. We will only support a proposal that will take this condition into account. We are also dissatisfied with the calculation of the amount of aid at the time of partial employment in Mr Sklenák's parliamentary proposal, which was changed from a net wage to a gross wage ratio, and we in the SPD clearly prefer to calculate this aid from net earnings, which can often be higher in low-income employees or in employees with more children than in gross earnings. I therefore submit amendments to the SPD to set the calculation of this aid again from the employee's net earnings, in variants 80 and 85 per cent. At the same time, I also propose four amendments to the complex proposal by Mrs Pastuchová and Aulická Jírovcová, who takes the Kursarbeit as support at a time of partial unemployment and as payment of compensation for wages directed directly to employers. Two of them demand that employers be able to benefit from this support also for fixed-term workers, which does not allow the proposal by the Member. And we in the SPD consider this, as I have already said, to be unfair and discriminatory, especially to single parents, to part-time employees, to young employees and graduates of schools, or to older employees of pre-retirement age or disabled employees, because, in relation to these occupational groups, the Institute of fixed-term employment is used most often and often repeatedly. In the other two proposals, we aim to change the adjustment of the amount of the contribution at the time of partial unemployment, which is proposed within a range of 60 to 80 per cent of the compensation paid, including insurance contributions. In the first variant, we propose to adjust this range to 70 to 80 per cent and in the second variant to 65 to 85 per cent of this amount, which we consider to be more appropriate and fairer, especially to small and medium-sized employers, and especially when the various crisis situations have a longer, several months' duration. I thank you and I beg you to support our proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u9	Thank you. Mr Bauer, who is the rapporteur, has also volunteered, so I will give him the opportunity to give a priority speech... [[The MP states that he'll be performing for the club.]] For the club, yes, please, for the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u10	So once again, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, colleagues, allow me not only a brief position on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party, but perhaps also my personal feeling about what is actually happening around the Cesarbeit. There are a lot of entries here, and I feel that I know most of the views of the representatives of the political parties, and I think that there really is no political entity on this House that wouldn't want us to introduce a powerful, robust system that is capable of dealing with really massive economic collapses, floods or other things that can just happen from time to time. We said we were going to name it exactly the same way they named it in Germany, so that's where the word cursarbeit came from. I am very pleased, and of course we are leaning towards this, the Civil Democratic Party supports the cursarbeit to be created, and the discussion is really only about what parameters we set here. What really disappoints me and what I think is a great shame is how the current government coalition approached it. I have now looked at the whole bill, and we have seen here last year that the government has informed us that the law is being prepared for practically a whole year, and unfortunately in the autumn of this year it came with legislative urgency, which we all have when I look at the Chair of the Social Policy Committee. We did not like it very much that it was in a legislative emergency, but we discussed it on the Committee in a legislative emergency, we adopted a resolution that we agreed to this, and then it went to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And, above all, the government Members and Members of Parliament did not accept the legislative emergency, of course, the usual round of approval of this process has started, and we have been informed by the Minister that the bill is not entirely perfect. If I remember correctly, the Prime Minister also said that the proposal failed, that it was fake and that it had to be redesigned. And I was really pleased that Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová said that it was necessary to work on it, that she would very much like it to be some - preferably - majority consensus of all political parties. Among other things, I appreciate the fact that some round tables were convened, which I participated in during the ogre, and we were looking for a proposal that could then be transformed into some complex legislative process, so it was running. Then there was about two or three months of silence. During that time, the economic committee sat down, and he agreed to the pasquil - let's say, Pavel Juříček, let's face it, so the resolution sounds like we agree to approve the pasquil, which doesn't even like the Prime Minister, and there were some changelings. Among other things, in that period of two months of silence, the Social Committee also sat down, and to my dismay, even the Social Committee has a resolution and agreed to the original bad government proposal. During that time, the roundabout for the entry of amendments into the system has also started. If I have counted correctly, there are fifty-five amendments, in my opinion and without knowing whether honourable fellow Members or Members are giving their amendments to the original government pasquila, or whether they are giving them to the new comprehensive amendment, which was to be drafted by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. To my great surprise, there was also - in my opinion, a good quality - an amendment, above all, to my colleagues from the ANO movement. So that's what we have here today, a situation that's really, really inconspicuous. I am really sorry that, above all, at the government level, you have not been able to find any elementary consensus on a comprehensive amendment, or at least on a proposal, and that is why we are in the situation in which we are here, and I hope that in the coming days or weeks we will deal with this in some way. I do not want to say for the Citizen Democratic Party what amendments we have put into the system because it is very difficult to say what they relate to, but this is not important because we have been talking about our positions on the ground of round tables. At the very end, I'm going to raise a few questions. I would like to ask whether the proposal that is available here today, whether the government or the comprehensive amendment, or the big amendment presented by my colleague Roman Sklenák, has an agreement on tripartite. That would be the first question to the Minister. If the figures in the explanatory memorandum are really realistic because it says somewhere on page 19 that the costs in case the cursarbeit was triggered are somewhere around CZK 105 million. I find that very little in the case of some economic shock. It was also said that there has been a jumping rise in unemployment since March of this year, which we also have in the explanatory report, so it simply has to do with whether the extension of the Antivirus is being considered or not possible, or whether it is simply being negotiated within the framework of an exception within the institutions of the European Union. And the last question is whether, starting with the Minister, the Ministry of Labour itself has read in quotation marks a competitive amendment, led primarily by MEPs for the YES movement, because I have, among other things, become familiar with all these proposals, and I know that the government proposal, or the comprehensive amendment from the Labour Ministry workshop, changes ten laws. When you look at it, it is really a very complicated thing, which is put in there once and for all and has really many bureaucratic disadvantages compared to a competitive proposal which, of course, also has its weaknesses, but it is very simple or is certainly less complicated in terms of changes or planned changes to those laws that will apply in the finals. [[16.40 hours]] So these are my questions, maybe to the discussion that will follow. And they're really paying for us -- and that's the great advantage of government -- if there are laws here, it's not every day when there's an effort to move somewhere, which is definitely true for us, on the other hand, the practical artistic impression, and what you've done so far in the approval process, it's really a very sad sight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u11	Thank you. And now for the general debate of those who are duly enrolled. First Mrs Pastuchová, then Mr Sklenák. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, my fellow Members, I would like to comment on the proposed House of the Press on this law on employment, or cursarbeit, and thus I have also presented to you, as colleague Bauer has said, by means of your amendment, which I am proposing, which I will read in a detailed debate together with my fellow Member Hana Aulickaý Jírovcová. We all agree that cursarbeit is needed. We all know that, and we know what Mr Bauer here said, that the Prime Minister, as the Prime Minister said, did not come in the right courserbeit, called it another way. I will comment here on why, in fact, when it is said to be a competitive struggle - I have read the article today that it is a girl's war, the competition of two amendments - it is not true, please. I'm talking about systemicity. We are trying to simplify the whole process with our amendment. As the rapporteur said, this House press was sent to us last September. The legislative emergency was not approved, so we drove in the ordinary hearing. The Committee on Social Policy, as the Committee on Guarantee, discussed this House's press on 4 November. All the members of the Social Policy Committee may confirm that I am not lying and that all the members have had many amendments ready to be loaded. In the meantime, an economic committee has already been held, where proposals have been adopted, as Mr Bauer said, through you, fellow Members of Juříček. So we're meeting up to four. 11. The Minister has told us that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing a major comprehensive amendment, which will be sent to us by Friday of the week when this committee took place. Unfortunately, no amendment came by Friday, not in a week, not in two weeks, not in three weeks. The promised comprehensive amendment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not been presented to us as promised on the committee, so far. Since, of course, I have social networks, so I learned from Facebook that some amendment will be proposed by my fellow Member Sklenák, and on Facebook the Minister has been told, I quote: "We must approve in the House as soon as possible. The unions and employers are clear. He clearly agrees with Roman Sklenák's social democracy colleague's amendment. He really needs to be supported." So I figured it was probably the big complex amendment that we as committee members were supposed to get to that Friday. And I won't agree with what the secretary wrote on her Facebook page, and I'll explain why. That is why we have decided with our colleague, Aulicka, when no amendment came to us in three weeks' time, to present our comprehensive amendment, which fundamentally simplifies legislation. The amendment proposed, as I said, a fundamental simplification of the provision of contributions at the time of partial unemployment and, contrary to the proposal submitted by the petitioner, that is, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we are amending in our proposal only one - please repeat - one legislation in Act 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, with the contribution being provided as a partial reimbursement of the costs incurred to pay the salaries paid to employees as a result of obstacles to the employer's work due to the definition of government regulations. The submitted proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs extends to eleven - ten more - to eleven legislation, and I would like to tell you in which: the Civil Code, the Act on the Organisation and Implementation of Social Security, the Act on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to the State Employment Policy, the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance, the Act on State Social Support, the Act on Pension Insurance, the Act on the Living and existential Minimity, the Act on Assistance in Material Need, the Act on sickness insurance, the Labour Code and the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. This is not what our amendment contains. Only one change. There's eleven of them. In our amendment, therefore, we are leaving the proposed system of support for the benefit, which, on the one hand, required a number of exceptions, as I said, in several legislations, does not logically and unsystemically transfer responsibility for the payment of the aid to employers, which would create additional costs in connection with the payment of the aid to employees, and at the same time, the aid, i.e. the levy, would be paid to employees, while they should be rewarded as participants in employment relations with wages or compensation for wages. Our amendment strengthens the protection of the employee against dismissal. Respect shall be given to the establishment of employment relationships where the person to whom a de facto allowance is granted at the time of partial unemployment remains a member of staff. Staff members shall first be paid compensation by the employer for the period during which work is not assigned to him due to obstacles to work on the employer's side, and subsequently part of these costs will be refunded to the employer subject to legal conditions. At the same time, the proposed adjustment does not interfere with future employee rights, such as entitlement to an old-age pension. The process itself of providing a contribution at the time of partial unemployment is similar to the system already under way under the Antivirus programme and is administratively undemanding. Again, I would like to quote from Facebook, now the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Thanks to the Antivirus program, hundreds of thousands of jobs have been saved and become the best functioning government measure in the fight against the coronavirus crisis. " On Facebook, I quote to Minister Maláčová for the last time: "Good news. Despite the deep coronation we still have a good score in the field of unemployment and it is mainly our King Antivirus." [[with emphasis]] That is why we are also putting forward an amendment which de facto can follow up on this programme. [[16.50 hours]] I think that even trade unions cannot have a negative attitude against our amendment because our amendment protects workers and does not involve them in administrative bureaucracy. I have here prepared and mention a lot of discussed things, why we cannot copy the often mentioned Germany, that it would be good to have a similar instrument that they have in Germany or Austria. Here it's probably just that it's different, because working in Germany is based on insurance principles, finance comes from a fund made up of employee and employers' contributions, it's not... it's not with us. So I'm going to skip to say here how it works in Germany and Austria, because it's a lot registered, and I'd like to see the second reading happen. I took the liberty of comparing the government and the MP's proposal to a simple - please - picture where you'll see... please, I can send it to everyone. [[He's showing the material.]] This is a government proposal when the government issues a regulation, activates support, the employer informs every employee in writing that there has been an obstacle to the work on the basis of which the aid belongs. The employer shall send a written notification to the Labour Office, the employer - the employer - to calculate the monthly claims of each employee for support and send it to the Labour Office by the 10th day of the calendar day of the month following the month for which the aid is to be paid. [[with emphasis]] The Labour Office shall issue a notification of the granting of aid and shall, within 10 days of the date of receipt of the monthly summary, pay the aid to the employer. The employer shall pay the support to each employee within 10 days of the date of receipt. Payment of wages and payment of wage levies takes place separately in addition to these processes. Our MP's proposal... I can also send it to you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'll give it to you. [[He's showing the material.]] I'll give it to you on A-4. The government will issue a regulation to activate the aid, the employer will submit an application to the Labour Office, the Labour Office will discuss the application in the Advisory Board and conclude an agreement with the employer, the employer will pay wages and compensation for wages and make compulsory contributions. The employer shall provide the Labour Office with a monthly summary and the Labour Office shall pay the employer a contribution within 10 days of receipt. So, here I have shown you the pictures, I can really send them to you all, or I have them printed, and I would like to stress again that our amendment has a significant plus for employees. He gets his income on time with his wages, he doesn't have to wait for anything and face the fact that, for example, he doesn't get the money on his account within the time limit for which he has his payments set. That's also very important to say. His rights under the Labour Code are respected, and there's no need to deform him. I think that's a big plus. And on the employers' side, I'm stressing that they don't have to change anything on standard procedures, because they have everything set up. Finally, I would like to say that we do not accept this amendment just because of the current situation, and this must be said to be a cursarbeit - or this amendment to the law - is, please, forever, not for the time of antivir, which is, or for the time of coronation, it is forever. And this regulation in the law must be applicable in a much wider spectrum of situations. The important thing is that it is also flexible. After all, even in Germany, they temporarily adapted their system to current conditions for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat once again that the solution is necessary, but why make it a complex change to eleven regulations when it goes by one rule. And yet I dare to respond to the Minister's request. We've been texting for a long time tonight, the secretary asked me for support to shorten the seven-day period. I have read and looked again into a system where there are about fifty amendments. We have the Chamber of Deputies this week, we have the Chamber of Deputies next week. All those dealing with social issues, I think he's sitting here today, sitting here next week. So I don't think it would be possible at all to deal with everything, both from the legislative side and when the committee meets, because there will be a long discussion, so I, as much as I would like, will not really support this shortening for me. [[tho]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u13	Thank you and now, with Mr Munzar's point of fact, then it would be Mr Sklenák's turn. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u14	Yes, thank you. I apologise to all those who are duly enrolled in the general debate, indeed only concerns a technical remark. [[Acting]] I want to follow up on Mrs. Pastuchová, through you. We are in a rather difficult situation here, because after the general debate, a detailed debate will begin, where amendments are to be read, and, of course, most of the 50 amendments are prepared for the original government text, as well as the economic committee that adopted the amendments, where one, I must say, was mine, so are the original texts. In fact, today we do not know whether we have these amendments, and that is the question of the Minister, to rephrase. What exactly will become the basis for further discussion? So that it doesn't happen that a lot of my colleagues' work from all political parties may fall into the table unnecessarily and some thoughts fall under the table if we don't know what will become the basis for further discussion. Maybe the secretary would if she could answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u15	Thank you. Madam Secretary is claiming priority rights, so, please, it's yours, then it's Mr. Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u16	Thank you for asking Mr Munzar. We have an agreement at the level of the government coalition that the starting point is Mr Roman Sklenák's comprehensive amendment. Anyway, a comment on Mrs Pastuchová. Mrs Pastuchová does not know that the Advisory Councils of the Labour Office meet twice a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u17	Thank you, and now, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not entirely comfortable with this, but I have to say frankly that it is clear from Mrs Jana Pastuchová's speech that the government's coalition is not in an ideal form, that the government cannot rely, unfortunately, on government Members here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is why the discussion of these prints is so difficult. Not in vain is the system of coalition and opposition applied everywhere in the world. However, we have to deal with this somehow, so there are so many applications and there are so many amendments. What is positive is, I think that all of us here agree at least that the cursarbeit as such, the adjustment in this area is appropriate and almost necessary to accept, and I believe that in the end it will be adopted in some form. I would argue too much that, after all, we will reduce the time to discuss the guarantee committee to seven days, which, by the way, I formally adopt this proposal to be heard in the general debate as prescribed. I think if there was a will, the guarantee committee would find a deadline for him to sit down. It's not about having a comfortable job, it's about taking the law on time so that it can follow up on the Antivirus that needs to end. [[17,00 hours]] So I will not speak any more in general; indeed, the history of the whole discussion has already been described several times. Allow me to briefly present to you the amendment which is under number 6997 in the system. It is a proposal which, in my view, reflects a certain majority mood in the Chamber of Deputies, as I have noted, and thus regulates the government proposal in several parameters. There are 11 changes in total. On the first point, contrary to the Government's proposal, I propose the possibility of providing support not only to permanent workers, but also to fixed-term employment, if the employment relationship is already three months on the date of notification and if it is agreed that it will last at least three months after the end of the grant. In point 2, I propose that the aid period for which aid will be granted should be set for the first time for a maximum of 6 months, with the possibility that it may be extended repeatedly, by a maximum of 3 months, until the maximum of 12 months has been exhausted. Thirdly, I propose that the condition of not assigning work in the range of 20 to 80 per cent should not be assessed on individual employees, but overall on all employees of the employer. Fourthly, I propose that the aid be set at 70 per cent of the average hourly gross, not net earnings, and on this point I propose that the maximum aid amount be 1,5 times the average wage, not the one that is in the original draft. On the fifth point, I propose that the employer's notification must include a statement that individual employees will be paid aid for partial unemployment or partial employment not within 10 calendar days, but within 5 calendar days of receiving aid from the employment office. Sixthly, I propose a change in the definition of the period in which an employer may not pay out extraordinary profit shares to members, shareholders or persons controlled by it or controlled by it or to members of the institutions, or otherwise allocate own resources to them or provide them with other extraordinary benefits, including early repayment of loans or loans. I propose that this period be fixed for the calendar month preceding the entry into force of the Government Regulations allowing the Government to grant aid for the period during the granting of aid and 12 calendar months after the end of the granting of aid. There are technical amendments in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the amendment that relate to these proposed amendments. And then, in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11, in order to speed up the entire aid procedure, I propose that the staff member receive the aid as soon as possible, i.e. shortening the individual time limits, namely the deadline for submitting a monthly summary of the entitlement to the aid from 10 to 7 calendar days of the following month. I propose to shorten the validity of the aid by the Labour Office from 10 to 8 days from the date of delivery of the complete and duly completed summary. In the context of point 5, which I have presented, I propose to shorten the deadline for the payment of aid to employees by the employer from 10 to 5 days from the date of its adoption. So much for the brief presentation of my amendment. Otherwise, the reasons given in writing are further detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u19	Thank you. I will point out that the proposal for shortening must be made in a detailed debate. Now, with Mrs Pastuchová's point of fact, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u20	Thank you. I just have to respond briefly to the Minister's words. The coalition agreement is definitely up to us to support the cursarbeit. But the agreement on which we will support the amendment did not really fall on the coalition. It was agreed that after the second reading, we would know what amendments were tabled and then we would sit down. That was the deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u21	Thank you and now Mrs GajdůGajdůšková in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Madam Member, Members. First of all, I will have a few more general words on cursarbeit, and then I will comment on the amendments to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. In general, I would like to point out that in professional personalistic literature you will learn that the most important and precious thing in every company is human resources, i.e. those who work in companies, their knowledge, experience, but also motivation and loyalty to the company's brand. Important managers will tell you that both finance and technology and raw materials are relatively easy to get against it, to gain capable people. Plus, raw materials, technology, finance are the same everywhere, but with capable and creative people, it's a little worse. You're not that easy to have and get. Kurzarbeit aims precisely to keep its employees, on which they can then continue to build. As has already been said, the proposal for a system of employment support, the introduction of a contribution at the time of partial employment, is important for companies, employers and employees, for new start-ups, if you want new start-ups. And that is what we will certainly have to do, regardless of political affiliation - and I hope soon - to do our best. Once we've overcome the covid, once we've overcome the pandemic that's haunting us all at this point, we're going to need all the strength to get the economy back on track. That is the point of the proposal for support - a contribution at the time of partial employment. The point is that not only pandemics, but also possibly natural disasters or economic crises can be overcome by functioning and necessary companies, organizations and thus there is no unnecessary loss of know-how, skilled workers, whether we mean masters of their field of labour and technical professions, or specialists and highly qualified employees. Only in this way is it possible to quickly start new work, production, service after overcoming obstacles. This situation, this fact, if you want, leads to the consideration of using the time when people are not working, to offer this time for further education, which can certainly contribute to the introduction of innovation, more efficient functioning of companies, to gaining greater competitiveness of companies and employees on the market as such. I would like to quote from the reasoning of the amendment to which I am speaking at the moment: "The future prosperity of individual companies and the economy as a whole depends mainly on the ability of innovation and adaptation to market requirements. International comparison shows that the basic condition for faster convergence of the Czech Republic and higher productivity of the work of our companies is the company's approach to employee education." [[17.10 hours]] I will also point out that only 50 percent of companies deal with the employee knowledge deficit in the Czech Republic in international comparison. In other states, it's 74 percent of companies. The other figures are then in the justification of the amendment. And I can tell you that they're not very good for us. We therefore propose that it be favoured by an increased rate of 10 per cent, a total of 80 per cent of average hourly earnings, the employee's participation in educational activities which are secured, mediated or recommended by the Labour Office. I'm just gonna point out here that it's not about the employment office organizing everything, but it's about making matters really, really meaningful. Our next amendment, which I would just like to imagine, concerns the registration of work agreements concluded and the execution of work. Already in the spring of the debates on compensation for the closure of certain plants, it has been shown that it is no longer true that people would only work for a living by being employed full-time or working, working for a living under the regime of self-employed workers, i.e. tradesmen. There has been a group of people who have only one income from what is called agreements, i.e. work agreements and the execution of work. These people in the labour market have no protection, no support. There was a big problem at the time, as you remember, in any way helping them, because there is no record on their large part. The next amendment therefore provides for an obligation for employers to report these agreements to the register of the Czech Social Security Administration, both for the members of sickness insurance and for those who are not involved in sickness insurance. Both the Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office welcome this amendment as a protection of workers from pressure on illegal employment or co-operation of these agreements. Again, it should be stressed that only agreements for employees mean that the employee is deprived of claims for sickness and subsequently pension insurance, any compensation in case of loss of work. Our proposal therefore aims to provide them with some kind of protection. The last amendment, which I am calling on and we are filing with my colleague Onderka and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate, concerns the renewal of the employer's reintegration of the Czech Labour Office or the Trade Office's vacancy. This obligation applied to employers until 2011. And believe it was very useful, especially for forecasting labour market developments. These forecasts depend on and must depend on the needs in vocational education, the focus of lifelong learning and, where appropriate, the promotion of an increase in qualifications or competence. Colleagues and colleagues, I add to all the amendments: I stress that they do not mean a new administration for employers, only in already established records and forms will employers enter proposed and required data. None of these proposals also alter the parameters and principles of the government amendment or the comprehensive amendment by Roman Sklenák, which we consider essential. The amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate merely complement and respond to requirements and practical problems. I will then ask you to consider supporting these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u23	Thank you. And now, Mrs Aulická. Mr Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have a bit of an easy job because my previous speakers - Mrs Pastuchová and colleague Bauer - have more or less outlined and the history of discussing the so-called cursarbeit here in the Chamber of Deputies. I may rather follow up on Mrs Pastuchová as President of the Committee on Social Policy. I will try to do my best not to say the advantages, but our view of our common comprehensive amendment. I must say that our proposal is not for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself, nor for the Minister Maláčová herself - or the proposed path - is completely new. We have information that this path - or this outline - has also been given to the Minister as one of the options, but it has been completely rejected because the Ministry of Labour has decided to take the form of the current Antivirus, which, as we know, is likely to work until mid-March 2021. I must say that when Mrs Pastuchová and I talked about the alternative along the way of Section 115, I also had my long-time colleague and social expert Mirek Opálka assess it, and he himself said that he liked it very much for the simplicity, speed and administrative understatement. Then, of course, we also dealt with the practice, and I must say that I will not name it, because I fear that it could lead to a completely different place. But I really took it, these people had 14 days to do it, and they took the two complex amendments that we have here today. One is mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Pastuchová, and then by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the name of Mr Roman Sklenák. And I said, you've got it here, look at it, don't look at the fact that we know each other, and please compare it as you see it from your position. Those people called me - they sat down to it, they had 14 days - and they said to me: We can say that we were really looking into this in detail, we were comparing it, and we all fully agreed that the amendment that you and Mrs Pastuchová are proposing is much better - not just for those people who will pay it and who will be concerned, but especially for the speed for employers themselves, employees. And I have to say that I am also very concerned about the term here - and it is a very common argument that we have also received from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour - that we are helping the employer, but the Ministry of Labour wants to help the employees. So don't be mad at me, but by allowing this speed, the possibility that within ten days of settling all the things that are given in the amendment, the employer will receive funding, allowing him to continue to have his employees at whom he wants to receive cursarbeit, and he can continue to try to survive the troubled time that will be addressed by this. [[17.20 hours]] So we are primarily interested in employees, but, of course, by helping an employer, we are dealing with employees. This means: we think of it as a complex and we see it primarily as an employee. So I'm very sorry that this is where you play the wave in a pretty big alibis. I must say that the essential things people have seen from practice, that employees who would be on the so-called cursarbeit, would not be in the register of the employment office, should be off the labour code. This means that they would not be able to quit and would have to wait until the so-called stay at the cursarbeite, and they could not decide that, perhaps, next to another company offers them a place to offer, and they could not leave. We don't turn off any of the work codes. We leave them with the opportunity to leave freely during the courserbeit. The terms that you have there and which you mention are completely unfulfilled in practice, and we have to say this openly. We feel that this was an attempt to outrun our amendment when it was said within 10 days, but in practice I am telling you that it simply cannot be fulfilled. And you can ask that anywhere, everyone will tell you. It's a little weird that you're saying that your amendment supports the employment office. The Labor Office will collapse under what you are saying here, because the administrative complexity of the comprehensive amendment that you are supplementing there, and you say that everything is to be fulfilled, so it will be a disaster for them. I find it strange that the employment office falls under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have a great feeling here that the Ministry, the Ministry's management, and perhaps Minister Maláčová herself does not know how this works at the Office of Labour and what problems she has in dealing with this difficult time with her employees, and at the same time we are dealing with them in another area. I would also like to say that I was very surprised when we all received a lovely letter from the Minister to all the Members, who would like to show how wonderful and wonderful Roman Sklenák's amendment is what is best about everything, and at the same time the amendment under my name is the worst that the Czech Republic can meet. Well, just in the paragraph that Mr Sklenák's proposal represents "a functional compromise between the political parties and the social partners will enable the state to support businesses and employees in the present unprecedented crisis, any economic crisis or natural disaster in the future in a targeted, rapid and non-bureocratic manner." At the same time, I'm telling you the argument that this can be written by a person who doesn't know the absolute reality and denies absolutely the practice. Another paragraph on the second page: "The affected companies would also not be able to rely on the aid from the State because, according to the amendment, they would not have a legal right to help." In that case, we deny all the evidence given in our amendment, where we say that this entitlement will be paid on the basis of these conditions. Next: That would also be made up of deputies... "The advisory bodies of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic would always decide to provide assistance." So here I have to say that the Ministry is once again saying it isn't true, because there is a discussion going on and the Advisory Councils wouldn't decide. I am very sorry that, unfortunately, they did not read this thoroughly at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. "They would also consist of representatives of regional employers, i.e. rarely of direct competitors of aid applicants. The danger of competitive struggle and corruption potential is so obvious, not to mention the delay in aid would require the decision of advisory bodies on applications, which were more than 66 000 just in the current crisis." Well, I'm gonna be breathing it down here because this is what I'm gonna write from the Labor Department when this body approves various active employment policy projects now, and says they're gonna deal with corruption potential and at the same time they're not flexible, so, Madam Secretary, what have you been doing so far? What have you been up to so far on all those projects that go on the edge? Don't be mad at me, there are representatives of the state administration in particular, and you can write this to the public MPs and Members that you're already predicting that they're going to negotiate with corruption. Well, maybe we'll have some fun somewhere else. And I really don't like it at all. Overall, I'd sum it up like this: When I read the article on the list today Girl war, so I laughed. But I can tell you that maybe it's a girl's war. I'm sure these guys are gonna get involved, but they're gonna let us fight a little bit, they kind of like it. [[us]] [[Laughing]] On the other hand, don't be mad at me when we are making arguments here, and what preceded the negotiations that have been said here, I will no longer discuss it, but I am fed up with what is being shown here, as all the other Members are constantly calling out, as there is a lot of untruth and how backroom negotiations are being done here, which unfortunately do not have any interest in adopting some good legislation, what to do here. And we will certainly not support that for the KSČM! Maybe I'll get out again, but I'll stop because this really pissed me off. And don't be mad at me, Madam Secretary, for such an act, I don't think it has anything to do with you at all, and I'm very sorry that this is how it is in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u25	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák will now come to comment on the girl's war. Mr. Mr. Juříček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think there's a man in a girl's war sometimes, but that's just for the record. First of all, thank you for the word, hello to all colleagues and colleagues. As far as my proposal is concerned, it is registered in the system as House document 6958. Its main reason is to simplify and accelerate the process of granting unemployment aid. The point is that the regional branch of the Labour Office will be obliged to issue a decision on unemployment aid only in certain legal cases. This is, for example, a case where unemployment aid is not granted if it is granted only 45 per cent of the average monthly net earnings or the basis of assessment, or where there are reasonable doubts as to the average monthly net earnings or the last time of employment of the jobseeker. The decision will also be issued where the jobseeker has objected to the notification of unemployment aid and where there is reason to suspend the administrative procedure. In addition, a new provision is inserted which follows the simplification of the procedures for granting unemployment aid. In cases where no decision on unemployment aid is taken, the regional branch of the employment office shall issue a notice to the jobseeker. The simplification consists formally in the fact that the notification against the decision does not contain a statement of reasons, nor will the regional branch be obliged to present the party with the documents for the decision. However, the procedural rights of the jobseeker will be maintained as the jobseeker may object to the notification within 15 days, which the regional branch of the employmentoffice is obliged to decide. The transitional provision here ensures that the administrative procedures governing unemployment aid which has not been definitively terminated before the proposed amendments to the Employment Act have been completed in accordance with existing legislation. I thank you for your attention and subsequently ask for the support of this amendment, which I will then apply to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u27	Good evening, esteemed colleagues. Next will be Mr Pavel Juříček, to whom I give this word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u28	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Some of you called me to tell you how it really works and works. However, let us go back to what we approved on the Economic Committee, and these were my four amendments. Yes, it is true that I have followed the government's pattern, and I have tried, as colleague Bauer has said here, through the President, to correct the pasquil that had the government's proposal in it. I tried to fix it parametrically, and I left the whole procedure or the process as the government suggested. However, I must tell you that - I apologize for saying now - it is already my fourth crisis since 1992 and in 2009 - and from this you will know that I am a great supporter to accept cursarbeit, but in functional form - so in 2009 as Vice President of the Union of Industry and Transport, I started writing a cursarbeit, which was at the same procedural level as my colleague Pastuchová and colleague Aulická, through the President. And that's the way to go. In this spirit, I also had strong support from then Pepa Středula, who eventually signed the parameters with me. But then the government was so - I'm sorry - into some other orientations that it simply didn't see that sometimes, from time to time, once every seven years, in ten years, crises were coming, whether they were economic, normal waves, or that there would be, for example, a pandemic like the one that has met us now in the last year. So I would really like to - and now reasonably - find a reasonable compromise - or it is not even a compromise - but the way that my colleague Pastuchová and colleague Aulická have set out for us here, because this was my original 2009 proposal through the President. And at the same time, to fit in some parameters that would exclude the mantra of the still repeated German cursarbeit. And I have to tell you how it works, or rather it doesn't work German cursarbeit. In the last year, you can't talk to German carmakers, because when they draw cursarbeit, they send mostly all technical and economic workers - yes, you're right, it's through the agency, and it's not through the government - they send them to cursarbeit and they can't take your phone, they can't answer your e-mail. People work in a limited mode, or in the last six months, they're going in full fire when I say it, in the automotive industry, but the whole management actually blocks the whole technological innovation, product innovation, because no one's available. And we don't want that at all. On the contrary, this is a period where you have to increase management activity and create a future to break out of it, from the crisis. So the German cursarbeit is a mantra, a dysfunctional mantra, which, however, by the fact that the German economy is very strong, that it can generate a lot of money, it can slap the problem that's there. I will now return to some of the problems that my colleague Sklenák has read through the President, and now I will tell you some weaknesses that would be very risky if we accepted them. First of all, my colleague and I are both right about the fact that the times and the procedures can't be followed. That's just nonsense that really has nothing to do with practice. We can discuss this, I've already said it to my colleague, Sklenák, through the President. But one of the biggest problems you have there is that it applies to everyone. But the crisis doesn't work so that it's flat on the whole company, but you need group or individual agreements. That for everyone... that some kind of economy is going to fall by ten, twenty, thirty percent, doesn't mean all employees are going to go down by the same percentage. No, you can't because you have a project after a project, a customer from a customer, and it doesn't matter if it's the car industry or any other industry or any other service. So it's totally wrong - it would be against the employee, because the employee would go across the board, which is completely wrong, it's against the employer, but it's against the state, too, because if we blocked the business in companies, the state would look bad. - Madam Secretary is reading on the web. - So I think what we should do is accept in a process what she has been adopting here... they have made amendments that I really understand more as a complex proposal, my colleague Pastuchová and my colleague Aulická, through the President. And a number of my parameters that relate to the knowledge that we entrepreneurs have in 30 years that we have experienced in these crises and where it makes sense - we cannot go to the same parameters as in Germany. Like I said, Germany is really too strong. We can't draw it from the state, but I built some of those parameters so that a company that does one day a week doesn't have the right to survive, especially that it's still for a year. It is, of course, nonsense for the government to decide. It is, of course, right how colleagues did it, and so on. I have two other amendments that are related to the emergency situation and the fact that it was originally agreed that the cursarbeit in the event that it is pumped, and the company will not, on the contrary, delay the places after the end of the cursarbeit, so the money should logically be returned by the company. So this is one amendment that I have under the number that I will then apply to in a detailed debate, which would be good for us to incorporate it into some common, really complex proposal. I don't know how to do this, Madam Secretary, but I think it would be more reasonable than pushing it forward, to do it well than wrong. And the second is related to what the unions and the Confederation of Industry, the current leadership of the Confederation of Industry have argued, and that is, when extraordinary events are such as plane crashes or floods, floods and the like, so that there are a number of different parameters so that employees who are needed in the company may, on the contrary, have higher overtime and greater efficiency towards the employer, because the employer, on the contrary, will still need some part of the company. Those were the arguments why you need to make a cursarbeit with the fact that it is one day a week, it is working, and the rest is not working. [[when]] On the contrary, when there are such things - and I have also experienced these floods as many of our companies, whether it was 1996 or 2006 - you need these people to bail out and start production and start the company as a whole. So that's the second amendment. Of course, I'm not conflicted enough to say that someone did something wrong. I am in favour of rationally draining all reasonable proposals and putting them into one common cursarbeit law. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u29	Well, thank you for your speech, too, and I would like to ask Mr Roman Sklenák's factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u30	Thank you. I'm just very brief. I really do not want to argue with Mr Juříček whether the deadlines I propose are real or not. I see his statement that the financial accountant is unable to pay the aid within five days when he receives it from the employment office, but I just really want to point out that in a letter that we all received yesterday from Minister Maláčová, there is also support from the President of the Confederation of Industry and Transport of Jaroslav Hanák, as well as from the President of the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions of Jan Vízner. So I considered these terms realistic if they have support from employers' representatives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u31	Thank you. Mrs Golasowská will speak in the debate, Mr Jan Chvojka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on the subject of the present courserbeit. KDU-ČSL sees this issue as very important, as an important aid, but I would like to emphasise, not only to employees but also to employers - because I feel that if he is not an employer, he will not even be an employee; because the employer will have to discharge, unemployment will increase, in turn debt, and it can lead to homelessness. There we know that then the spiral spins and grows in a geometric series. So I'm sure we see it as important support. However, I also have to say that I am concerned that we are being pushed into the rapid discussion of this proposal, and I think that the shortening of the deadline should be better negotiated between the coalition. I would like to put three amendments to you here, and I would also like to say that if some amendments were applied to a comprehensive amendment, I am, of course, pleased because two of the three amendments received a favourable opinion from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and one amendment was neutral. So I will briefly introduce you to my three amendments. The aim of the first amendment is to reduce the employer's costs at a time of economic problems, to which the government will, by its regulation, allow the government to pay aid at a time of partial employment to their employees. It is therefore proposed to reduce the amount of social security premiums in half so that the proposed legislation can actually serve as an effective transitional programme in practice to address employment problems, the main objective of which is to maintain jobs in businesses and thus their competitiveness at the time of the legal crisis situations. So that's roughly my first amendment. The second amendment aims to replace the average net hourly earnings from which the amount of aid is fixed at the time of partial employment by the average hourly earnings. This will significantly reduce the decline in income of the vast majority of employees, which is the most significant in highly qualified professions, whose maintenance employers are most interested in during the crisis, by up to 14 percent. In other words, employees' incomes will increase significantly at the time of partial employment and thus their purchasing capacity, which is an important prerequisite for restoring GDP growth and its dynamics as well as an important tool for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the area of services provided to the population. From this point of view, the proposed amendment brings key measures for the successful functioning and usability of the proposed legislation in practice. And my last, third amendment aims to replace the proposed condition of not assigning work to an individual employee with the condition of not assigning the work followed by the entire employer. This option best describes the required state of affairs, that is to ensure that only an employer can benefit from partial employment aid, which in a certain operation or part of it assigns work to at least some employees, sets the maximum ceiling for "no work', thereby ensuring that the employer works at least to a certain extent. At the same time, it provides sufficient flexibility to meet the conditions in question, which makes it possible for certain employees not to be assigned work for a certain period of time, for example, at all and some in full. This is particularly important in the case of the activation of partial employment aid for reasons which do not allow employers to allocate jobs at all at certain jobs. This is particularly a worsening situation related to the spread of COVID-19 disease and the related increase in positive persons, follow-up quarantine measures and government protection measures. It should also be pointed out that the draft law empowers the government by regulation within the said range of 20 to 80 per cent of the scope of non-addition of work, for example 40 to 60 per cent of the weekly working time determined depending on the reason for activation. The tightening of the scope of not assigning work by the regulation will ultimately affect the extent of not assigning work to each individual employee. So many of my three amendments, which I will then sign up for in detail in the debate, and thank you for their support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Pavel Juříček is registered here. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u34	Yes, thank you again. If you really want to talk about speeding the House, let's make a consensus that it must be from gross wages. Because if you tell every payroll accountant that it's made out of a net wage, then take how many different deductible items, tax exemptions and different things we have. Every payroll accountant pulls his hair out and talks about quitting if the cursarbeit was made out of a net wage, because it's unpredictable, please. And again, if we want speed, let's make it a gross wage, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u35	Thank you. Mr Jan Chvojka will be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, colleagues. First of all, I have to say, as Chairman of the ČSSD, one of the government parties, that I am glad that I am finally getting to the second reading of such important and important amendments to the Employment Act. After all, I tried on behalf of our club to include second reading sometime at the turn of November and December. Unfortunately, we were not supported by our coalition partner, which I find sad. I will load - and then apply to them in the context of a detailed debate - two amendments that have been supported and created in principle by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As I said, in a detailed debate, I will apply to them in terms of registration numbers. I would now like to present the first amendment concerning the effectiveness of the law, as the current government text in the law originally contains the expected effectiveness of 1 November 2020. This, of course, logically today, 20 January 2021, is unfortunately no longer real for the reasons I said. The draft law is based, in particular, on the experience gained from the implementation of employers' support under the targeted Antivirus programme, which is intended to support employers who have been affected and who are affected by the Coronavirus crisis. Unfortunately, employers' economic losses continue to threaten labour market developments and can unfortunately lead to very undesirable job losses. Since the support for employers in the already mentioned Antivirus programme will be terminated in February this year, we do not have much time - we are almost at the end of January, so it is necessary that the legislation on employment law and, of course, other related laws be adopted urgently, i.e. ideally third reading next week, and thus it has been possible to continuously follow up with the granting of new forms of support by the state to employers of those workers who will be subject to the measures adopted in the legal cases. [[17.50 hours]] In view of what I have already said, I therefore propose that the bill should take effect on the first day of the calendar month following its publication, with the exception, please, of the 12th part, which takes effect on 1 January 2022, following the effectiveness of Act No. 277/2019 Coll., amending Act No. 309/1999 Coll., on Collection of Laws and on Collection of International Treaties, of course as amended. So that is my first amendment. The second amendment, as I said, is also made on the floor of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The amendment repeals some valid but not yet effective provisions relating to the so-called Single Information System of Labour and Social Affairs. As of 1 January 2022, the so-called Single Information System for Work and Social Affairs was to be extended by these revised provisions, in particular by registers of insured persons and employers' registers, whose administrator has been the Czech Social Security Administration for decades. This change, according to the communication from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is now proving to be unthinkable, unsystemic, illogical, technically complicated, very difficult to realize. The implementation of this change would require considerable investment and in no way be possible to make it to 1. The 1st year of 2022. Moreover, the real benefit of this change will not be at all. Already now the Czech Social Security Administration provides information electronically to a number of entities, both within the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and, of course, also outside this department, and continues to work on development in this area. An example of this is the ePortal of the Czech Social Security Administration, which continuously reflects the current eGovernment strategy in the Czech Republic. That is my second amendment. And as I announced at the beginning of my performance, I believe that this amendment - that it is already a minute 12, maybe half a minute 12, maybe five seconds 12 - should be approved as quickly as possible, and so we should vote at the end of this point that the deadline between the second and third reading will be reduced to seven days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u37	Thank you, I have noted the procedural proposal. The next in the debate will be Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u38	Thank you for the floor. The discussion's been going on for a long time. I'll be brief. I would just like to start by asking - and I believe that there will be some answers, either from the Chair of the Social Committee or from the Minister - about how the negotiations took place within the government coalition at expert level. Because it's a matter where it's really weird that the government comes forward with two different attitudes. And as I see it, we all agree on the need for law, the need for regulation, and you're not actually in a situation where you agree on what you're dealing with at an expert opinion level, how to solve it, so that it works out as best as possible. This is surprising, which is why I ask how the professional negotiations took place. On specific matters to change, it is not just this one law, the contribution, the support for partial unemployment, but it is also a matter of remembering that society is a whole and that many people will go into unemployment as such. And that is why I have a second question, to what extent you talked at government level about what it will do to society as a whole, if some people are lucky, their company doesn't go bankrupt, it will use the cursarbeit to the fullest and they will have this support, and others will be unlucky, they will, for example, go to support the employment office, and there today the vast majority of people receive 45 percent of their previous average wages. It doesn't really work out that people are getting in to support 65 percent. It's a huge difference from here in the cursarbeit proposed to 80 percent. And my question is, have you considered the strain of such injustice? Have you considered whether it would not be better to go back to that approach that was a few years ago, that at least the initial unemployment benefit for two months should be at least 65 percent - purely because from the perspective of the whole company it is not fair for someone who contributed to the fund, who took out the insurance, and simply has the bad luck that he is in a bad company that is failing, so goes to the office of work, and someone else who is lucky to be able to draw the cursarbeit, so would he have so much more? This is covered by one amendment, I propose it - it concerns at least a slight improvement in the conditions of unemployed people registered at the employment office. The essence of the matter is that the support period of the first two months allows 65 per cent to be drawn, regardless of the reason for termination of employment. Of course, it doesn't concern dismissal because of breach of work discipline, but the other things we're looking at are people who agree to have a chance at 65 percent. The second amendment I propose concerns the first two months of cursarbeit in order to keep the proposed 150 per cent of the average gross wage throughout the economy, but in order to gradually reduce the amount of aid, the maximum possible amount of aid. The point is that it is really designed and significantly more generous than, for example, when compared to the surrounding countries and in the original proposal it was not like that. We would suggest such gradualness, and because it is not certain what proposal will pass, what to relate to, we have proposed it in two versions. I will therefore refer to two numbers of amendments on this subject, so that this applies both to Mrs Pastuchová, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and to Mr Sklenák. And the last thing, the covido measures that are now, in a way, culminating in this law, which is supposed to apply in the long term, in a law that will involve long-term support in some partial employment or partial unemployment, so far, those covido aids are passing away another motivation that we consider essential, namely the motivation of people not to be afraid to report to their contacts and are not afraid to go into quarantine. That's the thing other countries are dealing with, like, giving motivational amounts, money. We would propose to increase the Pirate Club by 30 June, only temporarily, until a significant proportion of the population is inoculated, to 80 percent for people who are quarantined for covid. I see that many members of the ANO movement are shaking their heads. We propose this because it is necessary to manage, to endure as a society until this time, until June, the last surge of pandemics before a substantial proportion of people are vaccinated. [[18.00 hours]] And because it is constantly falling, and I understand it, the willingness to report contacts and to quarantine, so that we can manage it, hopefully just a few more months, we are proposing to temporarily increase this measure to 80 percent of the daily assessment base. This is the last amendment I would like to present, and I would particularly like an explanation of how expert debates took place at the government level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u39	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal is here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. All I have to do is respond to the 80 percent. When colleagues from the Pirate Party ask about expert teams, I would like to ask if the expert team has also worked out why I should distinguish and what the covid is different about. I understand why it was said, but I can't discriminate against someone because of the disease. It's the same for all diseases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u41	Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak in the debate. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, make amendments for STAN. I divided them into two groups. The two amendments refer to Mr Sklenák's amendment, and then the other three go separately. So we fixed it according to what we knew. After all, it is a little more complicated in which amendment will be preferred. I mean, in quotes, the complex one. The first amendment concerns higher support for workers who are caring for an unemployed child, and instead of support of 70 per cent it is increased to 75 per cent. The aim of this proposal is to distinguish between employees and families whose income reduction can very significantly interfere with daily life, in which a large part of their income is directed towards the cost of child care, unlike childless employees. This will prevent a child-career from having a serious economic situation due to a significant loss of income through the application of the Cursarbeit scheme and, as a result of this difficult situation, would have to significantly reduce the cost of a child to the extent that it could have a critical impact on the child, whether on the level of education, social or cultural. The aim is therefore to favour families with children whose basic cost of normal life is higher than that of ordinary employees. The second amendment, which also refers to Mr Sklenák's proposal, concerns higher support in the case of retraining and increases to 80 per cent. It aims to motivate employees at a time of partial employment to increase qualifications and retraining organised by the Labour Office in the form of an increase of 10 percentage points. Of course, an even better solution would be to include the possibility of retraining in cooperation with the employer in the Employment Act. However, this would be a systemic change affecting a number of other provisions of the Employment Act, and we did not dare to do so, because we think that this should be prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In addition, separate amendments follow. The first is a limitation of the time when the work is not allocated for a maximum of three days and counting as an employer is provided for. This proposal aims to replace the proposed condition of not assigning work to an individual employee with a condition of not assigning work to the entire employer. This regulation better describes the required state of affairs, which means that it ensures that only an employer can benefit from partial employment aid, which at least assigns work to some employees in certain operations or parts of it. At the same time, it provides sufficient flexibility to meet the conditions in question, which is that it allows, for example, for certain employees not to be assigned work at all for a certain period of time and to some in full. The second objective of the amendment is to reduce the scope of the non-addition period by the employer from the proposed 20 to 80 per cent to 20 to 60 per cent. This adjustment would prevent workers who are not necessary for employers and their activities in quotation marks. Under the conditions contained in the present proposal, the employer could maintain artificial employment in the state-subsidised regime at the expense of the market needs and other employers who are looking for employees. Furthermore, there could be artificial maintenance of non-perspective sites, which will cease to exist after the end of the State aid. Another, the penultimate amendment, is to change the calculation from net wages to gross wages and to further increase family support. The amendment aims to replace the average net hourly income from which the amount of aid is fixed at the time of partial employment by the average gross hourly earnings. This would ease the decline in the income of the vast majority of employees, which is most prominent in highly qualified professions, which employers are most interested in keeping during a crisis. In other words, this will significantly increase employees' incomes at the time of partial employment and thus their purchasing capacity. I think this has already been mentioned by Mrs Golasowská. The second part of the proposal, of course, is also based on the fact that the family should be supported, but I have already mentioned the principle of the amendment in the proposal which would be linked to Mr Sklenák's amendment. And the last amendment, which, if I am not mistaken, may also have been made here, is the maximum contribution from one to one-and-a-half times, which is intended to increase the setting of the maximum aid ceiling at the time of partial employment so as to enable employers to maintain better-rewarded and highly qualified employees during the crisis. I think there's been a lot of talk about this here too. I would hereby close my five amendments and ask you to consider supporting these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u43	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič will speak in a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable members of the government, I will not speak long. I would just like to say that I see the bill that concerns the amendment to the Employment Act, although it bears the pendant German, cursarbeit, as a very failed attempt to copy the German form, which has its historical nature sometime from the 1920s and perhaps before the first world war, and thus has developed historically. So it has a long way to go, it is quite elaborate, it is quite complex, it has its strict rules, and we are entering this in the worst possible way that we have a few amendments that we are declaring to be the main, and now it will depend on which goes through, which will be voted first, second and third, and will go through as the main, and according to this, the rest of the huge number of several dozen amendments will be sorted out, and now what will come out of it? Will this result in real aid to entrepreneurs and employers and employees, as it will be projected against large employers like Auto Škoda, TPCA, some ironworks, other large enterprises employing 500 or more people? How this will depend on the help that will essentially be on the government and its decision against small, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, and what the law will ultimately take, what the amounts of the support will be in it, how the circumstances will be, whether it will be backed up, or whether it will be up to them, and the aid will be given back to them, and they will be struggling with the limit of insolvency before, or not, within different periods of several days, or even weeks, so I consider it all very, very bad. I have also tabled several amendments together with my colleague Hana Aulicka. The one amendment, which then justifies it, concerns - and is also submitted with colleague Pěnčíková - support at the time of partial employment, which belongs to employees only for the part of his weekly working time, after which the employer does not assign him a job, and its amount is 80 per cent of the average hourly net earnings. The reason for the proposed changes lies in the fact that the proposal aims to increase the aid at the time of partial employment by an average hourly earnings, which significantly reduces the large decline in income of the majority of employees at the time of partial employment, which varies depending on the family situation, the number of children, for example for a childless employee on four days of providing support and one day of work in a week ranging from 24 per cent for revenue of CZK 14,600 per month, i.e. up to CZK 12,134 per month, CZK 2,912 per 9,222, up to 40 per cent for income of CZK 50 000 per month, i.e. CZK 36 535 per month, CZK 14,559 per CZK 21 976 per month, and for higher income, both the percentage and nominal loss of income at the time of receipt of the aid at partial employment is further deepened, and these persons get into socially difficult situations where they will not be able to cover their standard expenses. The most significant will be the decline in income in highly qualified professions, the maintenance of which employers are most interested in during a crisis and on which the competitiveness of individual companies that will be required by the new Institute for their employees depends most. At the same time, it should be stressed, however, that increasing employees' incomes at the time of partial employment is also needed in order to... GDP and its dynamics are an important tool for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the field of services provided to the population. From this point of view, the proposed amendment brings key measures for the successful functioning and usability of the proposed legislation. In these cases, which I mentioned here, the increase in aid at the time of partial employment would increase from 70 to 80 per cent for income of CZK 14,600 gross per month, i.e. CZK 12,134 net per month, the total income of the employee by CZK 416 from the government proposed CZK 9,222 to CZK 9,636 per month, and for income of CZK 50 000 gross per month, i.e. CZK 36 535 net per month, would increase by 10 per cent the total income of the employee from the government proposed CZK 21,976 per month, by CZK 2,079 per 24 055 per month. So that's the one amendment that's here. And then there's this one amendment I've been talking about the last time. I am aware that our legal order also knows the Institute of Working Time for a fixed period. It is modified very specifically, it is used by a number of employers, and when we mean it in full, it means three times and enough. But if the employer decides to take advantage of the maximum length permitted by the law, he will make the fixed-term contract for three years and extend it every three years, so that it can extend it for up to nine years. And in this case, I suggest that, if this contract is concluded for at least one calendar year and the employee has worked for three months, he should also be entitled and fall under the support of the cursarbeit. I think that this is an appropriate measure for the professions of less qualified, perhaps highly necessary professions in the national economy, as well as, oddly, professions in a number of highly qualified, such as a number of educators. So I would then sign up in a detailed debate on these amendments or one of them, the other I would like to join my colleague Aulická, and I would ask for their support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u45	Thank you. At this moment, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u46	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to prolong this kind of long-term debate anymore. I just want a very brief opinion on what's going on here. We've long been calling for cursarbeit to be ready so he can finally start paying instead of Antiviruses, the individual programs, because we consider it a much better solution, and I'm very sorry that the road to this is this long, thorny and crooked. On the other hand, it's not our fault, it's really the government coalition's fault. It needs to be said here in this sense that perhaps not even the whole coalition. But I also want to support the shortening of the deadlines that have been requested here. I'm sure we'll support it, because we see the result. And the result is to help entrepreneurs, and especially employees. That is why we want to finally grow up after the long debates and meetings that we have all gone through - and I thank you for having the opportunity to influence it in the very creation of the proposal - and I firmly believe that the compromise that will eventually come out of all this very difficult negotiations will be beneficial for those to whom it should be beneficial. I still have amendments there, which I am going to sign up to in detail in the debate, which are justified in the explanatory reports themselves, so I am not going to read it here right now. I consider it reasonable for everyone, because we can read it, to read it. As far as the overall support for this proposal is concerned, depending on what amendments will eventually be applied and passed, we will decide on the final support of this law in the third reading, which I hope will happen as soon as possible thanks to the shortening of deadlines, so that, finally, we give a clear signal to the business sector and employees in this state, how it will actually work, because they are waiting very, very much for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u47	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will allow myself one more small replica, by your means, to President Pekarová Adamová and perhaps to colleagues who are going to support her proposal. I would ask that this institute not be used to allow employers to give notice to their employees for no reason at this time. It's something that gets out of hand. This is something that will go beyond the traditions of the Czech rule of law and the regulation of labour law, which will lead to liberalisation and significantly aggravate the social conditions of employees, their families, and will cause quite other problems and eventually the whole cursarbeit and a good idea will miss the effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u49	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u50	Thank you for the floor. Of course, there is only one part of the proposal that I am putting forward that is always earmarked for its criticisms, and the other part, the B, is deliberately withheld, neglected and not stressed, so I consider it important to correct it here, and also to mention B to you. It is about the fact that an employee, if this proposal were to be applied and if an employer were to be employed, would receive a higher severance grant and the share that would be more favourable to the employer would be shared by the State. This is proposed on purpose for a transitional period, so that people who no longer have a big perspective with their employers are motivated to do so, and that they are also more financially interesting and interesting, even for the employer, to move forward, to requalify, to get another job, because not all sectors are affected by the current crisis. [[♪ to ♪]] Of course, some suffer completely awful and are in a devastating phase and some are on the rise. And I'm sure there's an opportunity to move on. So here I want to add what's deliberately not mentioned here, and there's always only one part that looks scary at first sight, but let's see how inflexible our labour law is, it's been a problem all these years, and I think that those of you sitting here in those benches and you're entrepreneurs, you should confirm it, I'm deliberately looking at one of them now and I'm looking at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u51	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and Mr Grospič will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u52	I, colleagues, do not want to delay, and by your means, Mr President, to Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Of course, nothing was purposefully torn out, I am aware that the proposal also has the B, but I am terrified of the B, because I think that it will then lead to an increase in the cost of the state, not only in terms of payouts, but also in terms of claims to the Labour Offices, retraining, a number of other programmes, and that in this situation we are concerned, above all, that we find ourselves in this form and that we are difficult to find a consensus on it, we have found stability with those existing employers. It is clear to me that the current epidemic situation may redo the labour market, some sectors will be very ill and others will be created. There is no doubt about it, but I do not think that the proposal itself should be associated with this form, that it is out of context and that this is not the way to solve any stabilization in favour of employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u53	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I do not see anyone else logged in to the general debate, neither electronically, nor from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary is interested, so please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, because this debate has actually been going on for a very long time. I will then comment on the individual amendments at third reading. As regards the basis on which these comprehensive amendments were discussed, it was based on tripartite. The meetings, I think there were dozens of them, took place from May this year and were attended by individual experts of relevant departments, i.e. MPSV, MF and MPO. As regards the promotion of tripartite, that was a question, I believe, of Mr Bauer. Yes, the proposal I identified as desirable in yesterday's writing and, in our view, best developed - at the same time, it is a compromise proposal of all nine entities represented in this honourable Chamber of Deputies - so it has the support of all members of the social dialogue, meaning all four presidents, respectively the Presidents. They also signed the letter I sent to all 200 honourable members and members of this Chamber of Deputies, and we are here to explain why we have reached this compromise and comprehensive proposal and why we consider it desirable. As for the individual remarks, allow me not to prolong today's debate, to express myself either bilaterally, to meet in the hallway, to explain, or then at third reading. There's a lot going on, there's a lot going on, I like to be available at any time. I still think that such an important proposal deserves it, and I will explain it very much in the third reading. One last thing. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to support the reduction of the deadline for seven days, because our economy needs a proposal for a law on cursarbeit, it needs a good solution, and I think that entrepreneurs are very eagerly waiting for this new adjustment, they need some certainty at this very difficult time. kurzarbeit will have a great advantage - if you go through Mr Sklenák's comprehensive amendment that companies - and I would really like to draw attention to this - companies, if the proposal passes, will no longer need funds to prefinance their employees' wages and also to pay their contributions, because Antivirus, I think, has succeeded very well, it is the most successful government program, but one of its weakest aspects is that companies have to pay their wages, pay their contributions, and then ask for the billing of labour offices. And that would change with Mr Sklenák's comprehensive amendment. So once again, I beg you, after these months of debate, to move on to a shorter deadline for seven days, the Czech economy needs this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u55	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. It doesn't, so I'm opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First, Mrs Pastuchová will appear and prepare the Member... sorry, I am sorry, Madame, with priority rights... so Mrs Pastuchová will then go with priority rights, Mrs...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u56	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the parliamentary proposal by my colleague Aulická Jírovcová, who is in the system under number 6756. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u57	Please, now with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u58	Thank you. I'm sorry, all ten of you. I hereby refer to the amendments under numbers 6387, 6388, 6389 and 6391. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u59	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u60	Thank you. I hereby subscribe to Amendment 6997, which I presented in the general debate, and therefore, in view of Vice-President Pikal's observations, here in the detailed debate, I repeat the proposal to shorten the deadline for discussion by the Guarantee Committee to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u61	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, Mr Marek Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby sign up for the amendments under number 7143, the bonus of education, number 7211, the registration of agreements, 7213, the reporting of job vacancies. I introduced them briefly in the general debate and, of course, part of the proposals made in the system is written justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u63	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák, Mr Pavel Juříček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u64	Thank you for the floor. I hereby declare myself to the press 6958, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u65	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček will speak in a detailed debate. Mrs. Golasowská will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u66	Thank you. I therefore submit to the two amendments under number 7203 and number 6615. And just in conclusion, I would like to say that the situation - so that we do not break up in such a negative atmosphere - is not so negative at all, on the contrary. We, the capable firms, we don't have people, there are 220,000 employees missing on the market, there are some 275,000 people in the employment offices somewhere today who are almost unemployed - I'm sorry, I don't want to say all of them. So it's completely pointless for us to speed things up right now. And you see, the potato that we've cooked here in some way, it's got to be sprouted in some way. So I think that, on the contrary, it should be right, and I call on the Minister to put together a team of reasonable people who really understand this, not some bosses who don't know exactly the detail and don't know the context, so that a reasonable proposal and a reasonable law can be made with reasonable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u67	Thank you. Mrs Golasowská, Mr Chvojka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my three amendments, which are under the number of House documents 6311, 6313 and 6314, and I have justified all the amendments in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u69	Thank you. President Jan Chvojka, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening again, coworkers, colleagues. In the general debate, I have presented and justified my two amendments to the press in question, to the amendment in question to the Employment Act. The first amendment concerns effectiveness and is inserted into the House system as document 7247, and the second amendment concerning the Single Information System of Labour and Social Affairs is deposited in the House system as document 7248. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u71	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u72	Thank you for the floor. I sign up for Amendment 7214, which concerns 80% of sickness. In addition to Amendment 7238, this concerns unemployment aid and its approach towards how high the proposal for cursarbeit is. And then proposals 7239 and 7240, which concern degression, gradual reduction after two months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u73	Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak in a detailed debate and Mr Grospič will be prepared. I will arrange for the assembly of Members, because we will be voting in a moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u74	I would like to sign up for the amendments that are being held under House document 7252. This proposal concerns higher support for families, instead of 70 per cent 75 per cent. House document 7253 concerning higher support in the case of retraining, increase to 80 per cent. These are amendments to Mr Sklenák's amendment. Furthermore, it is House document 6441, which concerns the limitation of the time when work is not allocated for a maximum of three days. Furthermore, counting as an employer is provided. House document 6442 concerning the change in the calculation from net wages to gross wages. And more family support. And House document 6443 on the maximum contribution and its increase to 1.5 times that. That is why I am signing up for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u75	Thank you. Mr Grospič, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me, through this, to sign up to my amendment, registered under number 6344 and relating to what I have announced, to workers for a fixed period of at least one calendar year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u77	Thank you. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will perform last. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u78	Thank you. Allow me to apply both to my amendment and to the other ODS colleagues' amendments. We are proposing amendments to the original Government amendment, as well as to any possible amendments that should form the basis for further discussion. I'm saying this from the point of view of procedural certainty. These are the amendments that you will find in the system under number 6327, 6328, 6329, 6330, 6331, 6334, 6335, 6336, 6337, and note, the amendment, under number 7267, which is identical to one adopted by the Economic Committee, but, as I said, for reasons of procedural certainty, we are also presenting it to all possible amendments that would form the basis for further deliberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u79	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková, registered from the post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also subscribe to my amendments, which I justified in the general debate. The numbers are 7094, 7093, 7241, 7051, 7050 and 7242. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u81	Thank you. I do not see anyone else entered into a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. It's not. She's interested, so please, the rapporteur is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, if I have counted well or, respectively, in Mr Munzar's case, I have been lost in this, there have been some 35 amendments. In addition, Mr Chvojka proposed a reduction in the deadline between second and third readings for seven days. It is here, because of this many amendments, that I do not recommend approving a shortening of the deadline. The Social Committee will be meeting on February 3rd. I assume that the negotiations will be very long, and we need to discuss all the amendments in detail in order to find a consensus on the best possible solution for employees and employers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-007-013.u83	Thank you to the rapporteur. I beg you to remain calm in the courtroom! We will vote on the proposal of Mr Chvojka and Mr Sklenák to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to seven days. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your identification cards. So, the numbers have settled. I have begun the vote to shorten the deadline to seven days. Who's in? Seven days. Who's against it? Voting order number 88, 90 Members signed in for 30, against 4. The motion was denied. And that concludes the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. We will proceed to discuss the next point and that is
