ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Sb. on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and other related laws /house print 780/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Klára Dostálová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Regional Development Support Act. Basically, changes can be divided into such three circuits. Firstly, it is a change in the role of selected cities in applying integrated territorial investment and accentuating urban and rural support in the regional development strategy. The second area is ensuring coordination of programmes, funds and instruments, direct management of the European Commission and clear definition of competences. And such a third block is the abolition of regional councils of cohesion regions and the transition of their responsibilities, rights and obligations to legal successors. Area A reflects in particular the content of the forthcoming European Union regulations in the proposed change in the role of selected cities in the selection of operations supported by integrated territorial investment. The change linked to the abolition of administratively demanding responsibilities of the intermediate body will allow the number of selected cities in the roles of urban agglomerations centers from the current seven to the future thirteen. In Part B, based on experience from practice, individual competences of the National Coordination Authority, tools for the use of directly managed programmes will be adapted more appropriately. Indeed, the Czech Republic has a little problem drawing on directly managed European Commission programmes such as Erasmus, Horizon, Creative Europe, etc. The programmes are eleven, and the role of the National Coordination Authority really needs to be anchored, so that the Czech Republic can better draw on these funds. Furthermore, of course, area B also responds to the administration associated with the use of the monitoring system, the future monitoring system 21+ system. In Part C, the aim of the draft law is to abolish seven regional councils of the cohesion region on 31. 12. 2021, and the establishment of their legal successor. It is proposed that this successor be the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance for tax administration. During the programming period 2007 to 2013, regional councils served as managing bodies of regional operational programmes. During the current programming period 2014 to 2020, their activities were significantly dampened and mainly aimed at shutting down the ROPs and ensuring activities related to monitoring the sustainability of projects from 2007 to 2013. The period for which the transition of regional councils to legal successors is envisaged is linked to a new programming period with a different position of regional councils. It is not economical for seven separate entities to continue to function with all operating costs, when residual activities could be concentrated and ensured by a significantly smaller number of persons. The MMR currently finances most of the operational and personnel expenditure of regional councils from the technical assistance operational programme and could in future better correct the performance of these activities as legal successor to regional councils. The amended law will not only reflect the changing needs of real practice better, but will also make a significant contribution to better setting the conditions for drawing funds in the next programming period, i.e. the period 2021 to 2027. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Finally, given the technical nature of the proposals and the need to ease the regions by building a legally agreed termination of the activities of regional councils, I propose a shortening of the time limits for the committee's discussions, in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 for 30 days. In the general debate, I will then sign up for this proposal as a Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u3	I would therefore ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace - I did not want to interrupt the Minister - so that Members could speak calmly. So please let the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which was originally Mr Ivan Bartoš. However, there is a request for a change and it should be Mr Ondřej Profant. So I will call the Members to the Chamber to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur at first reading. Who agrees with the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Ivan Bartoš to Mr Ondřej Profant? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 185, 97 Members registered, for 83, against none. The motion was accepted. So please let the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Ondřej Profant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and the public. In this press, Act 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development is amended. The government has already passed this law on 12 March last year. The Organizing Committee has proposed this press to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. The submitted press is the design of a technical amendment. It concerns support for regional development, in particular for system modifications in connection with strengthening the coordination role of the Ministry of Regional Development. [[9.40 hours]] The incentives to amend existing legislation are based on three areas. Madam Secretary has already summarized this very closely, so just very quickly. Firstly, there is a change in the role of cities, an extension of the number of cities in the roles of territorial strategies for the agglomeration and a change in their role in terms of responsibility for the selection of projects. Secondly, NOK, i.e. the National Fund Coordination Authority. Thirdly, the abolition of regional cohesion councils, which today are more of an experiential and administrative burden. So these are the three changes that will help the development of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u5	I, therefore, open a general debate in which I have no Member. When I look in the O.R., no one checks in, so I'm ending the general debate... Yeah, you're applying, yes. [[The reporting Minister of Dostál.]] I looked so high, I missed you. So in the general debate, Minister Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u6	Thank you. Following my opening statement and pursuant to § 91 para. 2 I put forward a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-004-048.u7	So I look around the hall one more time, I see no one, I end the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. The rapporteur? Designer? I don't see interest. So now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? [[No one checked in.]] So we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the motion being made... So, Madam Secretary? [[The secretary's checking in, but she adds she's already on board.]] Yeah, you claim to agree, I see. [[Smile and cheer in the hall.]] Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 186, 99 Members registered, for 91, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see a suggestion. So we will proceed to the last vote, and this is the proposal of Minister Klára Dostálová and also of the rapporteur, but Klára Dostálová, to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 187, 97 Members registered, for 75, against none. The motion was accepted. And I end the first reading of this bill. We thank both the rapporteur and the appellant. We'll move on to the next press. This is about
