ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u1	395. Proposal for the election of members of the Czech Television Council We interrupted this item on Tuesday 13 April 2021 at the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The item was interrupted in the debate. I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the position at the rapporteur's table and, if necessary, ask him to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u2	Well, I have to give the opening gig, because there's been one thing since April. On 3 May, the Election Committee received a letter from Mr. Jiří Grund, who resigned for personal reasons for the election to the Czech Television Council. We have forwarded this to all members of the committee and the electoral committee. The Commission subsequently adopted the subsequent resolution per rollam number 188. The Election Commission took note of this resignation and subsequently forwarded this information to the Election Media Committee. He met on 11 May at his 28th meeting, where he allowed the secret election - he added the candidate for one missing candidate - so that here, the House was presented a proposal corresponding to the number of three times vacant seats, i.e. the number of 12 candidates from which we should vote. The Election Committee adopted Resolution 112 on this. The Election Commission subsequently had to adopt its resolution per rollam number 192, which I will quickly read to you for the tapestry - and that is what is now progressing to you: "The Election Commission notes that on 11 May the Election Committee made a secret choice for a vacancy of resignation and elected Mr Michael Mann. The original resolution of the electoral commission number 184 on the proposal to elect members of the Czech Television Council will thus expire after the resignation of Mr Jiří Grund of 3 May. The Election Commission also instructs the President to inform the Chamber of Deputies of these proposals." I will read them for the screen record as it is presented to you today: "Propositions of candidates for the election of four members of the Czech Television Council according to resolution 112 of the Election Committee - in alphabetical order: Petr Brozda, Pavel Černocký, Pavel Černý, Jefim Fištejn, Jiří Kratochvíl, Jaroslav Kravka, Michael Mann, Karel Novák, Zdeněk Pernes, Milada Richterová, Daniel Váňa and Radek Žádník." Secondly, the resolution states that a special law does not provide for a choice. The Election Committee and the Election Commission are proposing a secret choice. Third, where appropriate, the elected members shall start a six-year term of office not earlier than 31 May. Now please, Mr President, to open the debate on this point, and I will remind you that we must decide on both the electoral committee's proposal and the electoral committee's secret choice by voting whether or not we agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u3	Yes, thank you, Mr President. We will now continue the adjourned debate. I have a priority report from Vice-President Pikal here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have a simple procedural proposal. Given that we've set aside until 9 o'clock tomorrow, I think there's nowhere to rush and we could use the remaining hour to discuss the remaining bills that we've put firmly for that time. So I suggest we break the election block by 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u5	So it's a procedural proposal that I'm going to vote on, of course, and it's going to be a vote-off until 7:00 p.m. [[Noise in plenary.]] The election block, of course, by 7:00 p.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 182, registered by 158 Members, for 59, against 80. The motion was denied. [[18.10 hours]] We will continue the adjourned debate. As the President of the Election Commission rightly pointed out here, we will then have to deal with the proposal for a secret vote. Mr. Martínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u6	Hello. I would like to propose in a procedural manner, because I expect a long discussion on this point to be interrupted until paragraphs 396 and 397 have been voted out, so that we can have peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u7	Okay, so it's another procedural proposal I'm going to put to the vote, and that's to interrupt this point until we discuss paragraphs 396 and 397. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 183, 164 Members registered, for 59, against 93. The motion was denied. I'll read an apology. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes today between 18 and 18.45 for reasons of work. The debate... Please, Mr. Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday there was a happening here in Malostranské náměstí to support Czech Television, when the rescue ring from SOS Czech Television was tossed, and I promised to present an open letter signed by representatives of happening to all of you and addressed it to all Members who, according to your best knowledge and conscience, will be making decisions about members of the Czech Television Council: "Dear Members of Parliament, our dear House, we are concerned about the situation in the Czech Television Council. Tomorrow, 25. 5. 2021, you are going to elect four new members of the Czech Television Council. From the statements of selected candidates -'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u9	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u10	I'm just here for a colleague. Of course, I'm reading a letter that was routed to the expected election date, where it was 25. - Tuesday, but today is Wednesday, yes, how it changed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u11	There. Please try to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u12	"The opinions of selected candidates before the election committee and from their CVs can be expected to strengthen the voting majority in the ČT Council, which seeks to withdraw the CEO of ČT Petr Dvořák and to liquidate critical programs Questions Václav Moravec, Reporters of the Czech Republic, 168 hours and more. Since last February, despite warning to the professional public and later to the Senate, you have chosen a number of personalities who have previously expressed open hostility to the current management of Czech Television, or even questioned the public nature of the Czech Television at all. What is the result of your choice? A terrible level of communication within the ČT Council, permanent scandals that embarrass the board, but also you and its electors. A disgrace to which international journalistic and media organizations of prominent names, including the British BBC, are already responding. Such a shame that even the Bishop's conference by the mouth of Archbishop Jan Graubner gives his hands away from his nominee Hana LipovskLipovská and calls for her resignation. The members of the ČT Board are to be legally independent of political parties, on the contrary, to represent the diversity of interests and opinions of the public. What's the reality? The majority in the Election Committee and in the House gradually select candidates who do not present this diversity to the public, but to the specific interests of the voting majority. As a result, the composition of the ČT Board is no longer apolitical. It is top political and the ratio of forces here does not correspond to the ratio of representation of parties in the House. In fact, it would be fairer if representatives of political parties sat directly on the ČT Council. The same problem, of course, concerns two other public institutions - Czech Radio and ČTK. What's wrong with us? Non-public meetings of the Board without an alert, even excluding certain members. We are the public, the ČT Board represents us. Interruption of the board into personnel and program affairs of the Czech Republic. A clear conflict of interest among some councilmen. Insults of journalists and journalists by members of the ČT Council. If you really wish to call off the head of the most influential media in the country in the middle of the election campaign and make other radical interventions in the Czech Television broadcast, please do so openly, with full political responsibility, not in secret, through a formal independent council. It will be more fair to the citizens who elected you and who will decide your fate in the upcoming elections. However, we believe that you consider the independence of public media to be an untouchable part of the democratic establishment of our Republic. Therefore, we ask you to postpone the election of the new councillors, the new members of the Czech Council, beyond the horizon of the parliamentary elections. We ask that you withdraw members from the ČT Council who have been selected there in violation of the ČT Act and also recall those who violate the law by acting on the Board. Together we will give it: Eva Lee, Prague, Iva Šlitrová Fendrychová, Hradec Králové, Kateřina Šírová, Prague, Lucie Javůrková, Černilov, Ondřej Bednář, Karlovy Vary, Radka Hübnerová, Hradec Králové, Veronika Jiravová, Kostelec nad Černými lesy, Veronika Vendlová, Kněžmost, Zuzana Böhmová, Brandýs nad Labem - Stará Boleslav." This letter has been signed by a number of people who have participated in this happening, which I will not read anymore, but it is really a large piece of paper, and which I will be happy to pass on to the rest of you if you would like to see this open letter. In addition, I would like to read another letter from the former members of the ČT Council, which should also be heard in order to reach the public: "Dear ladies, gentlemen, we are anxiously watching the current Czech Television Council. As its former members, we know the laws and other standards -"
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u13	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'm sorry, but the noise level has exceeded any possible and impossible. I will ask you to keep your voice down so that we can negotiate this election point in peace so that the Member can speak in a dignified environment. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u14	"... which define what the Council of the Czech Republic must do, may and may not devote itself to the way it must, may and may not act: Act 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, Council Rules of Procedure of the Czech Republic, Code of Procedure of the Czech Republic and other documents. The current Council of the Czech Republic repeatedly ignores and violates these rules, whether intentionally or out of ignorance, which does not excuse its members. It must not happen that it will knowingly include false data in the annual report on the activities of Czech Television, presented to the Chamber of Deputies. He cannot threaten the chairman of the Supervisory Commission, whom she herself appointed only a few months ago, with an appeal simply because the finding of the audit carried out by the Commission does not support the illegal conduct of the Director-General of the Czech Republic. There is no reason for its members to be theatrically accompanied by police security at the ČT meeting and to justify this with concern for their own lives. Of course, the members of the Czech Television Council have a variety of views on the activities of the Czech Television, but they cannot deal with the Director-General of the Czech Television in a way that cannot be named otherwise than by bullying. [[18.20 hours]] The list of serious oversteps of the current ČT Council is much longer and leads to an unjustified, unsubstantiated questioning of the important public media in its consequences. Czech TV clearly damages such behavior. No wonder important international organizations, the International Press Institute, European Broadcasting Union, are already pointing this out. We're joining their voice. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Czech Television Act, the Czech Television Council is responsible for its activities to the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. you. I call on you to deal with the activities of the current ČT Council and to make amends. Sincerely Antonín Bajaja, member of the Council of the Czech Republic from 2011 to 2014, Jan Bednář, 2014 to 2020, Luboš Beniak, 2014 to 2020, Vratislav Dostál, 2014 to 2020, Michal Jankovec, 2011 to 2017, Josef Pavlata, 2010 to 2015, Jiří Presl, 2010 to 2014, Jan Prokeš, 2004 to 2015, Milan Uhde, 2010 to 2014, and Vlastimil Venclík, 2018 to 2019." In addition, it is certainly essential to read the statements of the members of the Czech Television Council: "Dear Member, honourable Member, the Czech Television Council, which brings together important organizations of public life representing important audience groups, is convinced of the professionalism of the work of Czech Television's employees and its invaluable contribution to the citizens of the Czech Republic, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the members of the Board consider the current political pressure on Czech television to be a threat to its independence and to the weakening of the public service. As representatives of the Council, we therefore ask you to postpone the election of new members of the Council until all the open questions connected with the nomination process are clearly resolved. Thank you very much. Association of Ecological Organizations Green Circle, Association of organizations of deaf, hearingless and their friends, Association of directors and screenwriters, Association of publicly beneficial organizations of the Czech Republic, Association of Professional Theatres, Czech Rectors Conference, Czech Council of Children and Youth, Czech Centre of International PEN Club, Czech Film and Television Association FITES, Czech Olympic Committee, EDUin, Ecumenical Council of Churches in the Czech Republic, Federation of Jewish Communities in the Czech Republic, Actorical Association, Charity of the Czech Republic, Institute of Documentary Film, Junák - Czech Scout, Foundation Charter 77 - Konto Bariéry, Foundation for Civil Society Development, Foundation Via, Foundation for Independent Journalism, National Gallery, Post Bellum, Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, Association of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic, Syndicate of Journalists, Transparency International, Josef Středula, Chairman of the Czech Moravian Confederation of the Union; Professor Eva Zažímalová, President of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic; Professor MGA. Jan Burian, Director General of the National Theatre; MgA. David Mareček, PHD, Managing Director of the Czech Philharmonic; Ivo Mathé, President of the Czech Film and Television Academy; Mgr Karel Ksandr, Managing Director of the National Technical Museum; PhDr Michal Bregant, Managing Director, National Film Archive; PhDr Helena Koenigsmarková, Director of the Museum of Decorative Arts in Prague; Mgr Zdeněk Freisleben, Director of National Literature Memorial; Mgr Zdeněk Hazdra, D, Director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes; Jindřiška Kudrlová, President of the Association of Fundamental Art Schools of the Czech Republic; Karel Strachota, Man in Need; Monika Granja, Director of the Committee of Good Will - Olga Havlová Foundation; Klára Šplíchalová, Director, Donor Forum; Ladislav Kratochvíl, Director of the ORBI PONTES; [[ASNEP]] Jiří Stárek, Association of Elementary Art Schools; Mgr BC Hana Stýblová, member of the Board of the Elementary School Directors Association. Done at Prague, 30 April 2029.' [[Correct 2021.]] On the basis of everything mentioned and based on the request of the civil public, the concessionaires and all who care about democracy in the Czech Republic, I therefore ask you to vote against the secret election so that you vote publicly, as the law requires. For the record, I'll read what it would mean if you didn't vote for a secret choice. The Rules of Procedure of the House shall be clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Section 3.2 of the Annex that, unless a secret choice is provided for by the law and the House decides on a secret choice, a public election shall be held. The Annex to the Rules of Procedure of the House, which is part of this Act, provides that the public election is to take place mutatis mutandis, pursuant to Art. 5 points 14 to 20. The citation of these points 14 to 20 would be: "In the election of the members of the Commission, the President of the House meeting will vote individually on all the candidates proposed. Point 15. In the first round, the members of the Commission shall be elected candidates who have obtained an absolute majority of the votes of Members present. Point 16. If a majority of candidates receive more than the number of occupied seats, those who have received the highest number of votes shall be elected. If there is an equalisation of votes for candidates in and outside elective positions, the choice shall be repeated among them. If it is not so decided, the lot shall decide. 17. If an absolute majority of the Members present do not have enough candidates to fill a specified number of members of the Commission, the second round of elections shall take place at vacant posts. 18. The second round shall be followed by elected candidates from the first round who have won the highest number of votes among the unelected in the first round, but no more than twice the number of candidates than the number of unselected seats; [[Not selected correctly]] in the event of a tie, all candidates with the same number of votes shall proceed. 19. In the second round, candidates who have obtained an absolute majority of the votes of Members present shall be elected. If a majority of candidates receive more than the number of occupied seats, those who have received the highest number of votes shall be elected. If there is an equalisation of votes for candidates in and outside elective positions, the choice shall be repeated among them. If it is not so decided, the lot shall be decided." Here I have read to you how the law prejudice public choice, and if there wasn't a resolution by the electoral committee, we would also vote publicly. I think the voters deserve it. I don't know what it would look like if we were to vote secretly on the laws, how could they then decide on their future elected representatives, whether they respect their views, whether they represent their interests, and whether they actually elect the people who deserve it and who are the best in the council they choose. That's why I'm asking you once again to vote against the secret election. Support the public election, let it be absolutely clear who bears the political responsibility for the members of the Council who will be elected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u15	Thank you. Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies, gentlemen, colleagues, I would like to inform you first. I got a letter. I received a letter from the President of the European Broadcasting Union, Mrs Delphine Ernotte and CEO of EBU Noël Curran. Not only did I get him, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš got him, and I also think the chairmen of the chambers of the Czech Republic. I met with Mrs. Ernotte, Mrs. President Ernotte, and the CEO on Monday this week. I had a conversation with them. Of course, the letter was a letter informing me that the European Broadcasting Union was watching events on Czech television, around it and in the House. I was told during the interview that we had that Czech Television is one of those who currently actually has the highest credibility and the highest trust of viewers throughout Europe. At the same time, I was told that even Czech TV is a television that has strengthened public confidence during the Coronavirus crisis. It is a television today, which in Central Europe is therefore seen as the strongest compared to our neighbours, which is, in their view, a remarkable advantage that we still have. [[18.30 hours]] At the same time, we talked about the fact that today, at a time of global platforms, it is these global platforms that are very oppressive of the role of public media. By the way, the European Broadcasting Union brings together not only public television and radio, but also private, and they say that there is a threat that these global platforms, as they weaken the role of such public media, are, in fact, undermineing the identity of the communities to which the public media serves, and therefore having a strong public media is also part of building the community and its identity today. So I have also been told - one of the good reasons and strong reasons for the Czech Republic to maintain the level of public media or public Czech television as it currently has. And I believe that even in this House, we can probably agree that we need stable television precisely because of what we experienced at the time of the coronavirus, when really Czech television played an extraordinary role in informing and how consciousness about what is happening and what needs to be passed on as information. At the same time, of course, we are living at a time when I think we may also need a medium like this for security reasons. The time is quite restless and not only coronavirus and epidemics, but there may be other reasons why we need similar public media and media to cope with similar crises, which unfortunately can be repeated in a different form. So I was convinced that we would find reasons for it to be a stable Czech TV, and that it was our common interest. That is why I think that Czech Television would deserve some advice that will help her in this and will hold her in this, in this role to the public, just for those critical times that may come, which we cannot rule out. The debate with the President and the Director was also attended by European Commissioner Věra Jourová, who is in charge, as far as I know, of the media, and she worried me by telling me that she knew that among the candidates who are applying and who are nominated for the election, there is, for example, one who threatened her with a public execution for her position on carrying weapons or facilitating the carrying of weapons. She told me that it was something she thought was very much behind the edge with regard to the people who should be elected to such an organ, and I would agree with her. If someone threatens in such a way, I believe that such a type of person has nothing to do with such an institution, and I would take it seriously. Even if there are more of these, I am convinced that then such advice will not be able to serve in what I said, as a council that is ready to hold Czech TV at a time when we need an extremely strong medium like it and which would help it stabilize, rather than the other way around. So I am convinced that on the Czech Council we need not those who threaten, but those who are prepared to work well there. Of course, I respect the House as a place where elections take place, which are sovereign, and therefore, of course, there is no point in complaining that the figures I myself voted for did not get into the shortlist here, like Mr Jaromír Volek or Petr Pospíchal, but it is my personal problem that I failed with these elections. But my point is that we really try to vote on this council and get those who will help it, so that the Czech Television can handle these roles that I'm talking about, and the functions I'm talking about, and that should be ready to handle for the future. And precisely because I would like those who, as I said, are more capable of threatening than helping in this, I also join in making the choice public. I also think that in this situation it is very important that we do our utmost to ensure that Czech television retains the position it has in Europe today. I still think it is an advantage for the Czech Republic that it has such a strong public institution as Czech public television, because I have the opportunity to compare a bit and I know that this is quite rare in Central Europe. So I ask you, first of all, to consider who we will vote for in the Czech Television Council today, and at the same time, I intercede for a public choice, because the situation is, as you can see, rather extremely tense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u17	Thank you. Please make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u18	I wanted to make a point of fact. I was so scared. I looked at the agenda of the meeting, we are to vote for members of the Czech Television Council, and I was frightened by the Minister's words that we should vote on the cancellation of Czech Television. I do not understand what he was actually saying here, because we are here ready to vote for members of the Czech Television Council in accordance with the law, people who have passed the election committee, and I have now heard that we are essentially to vote for people who are going to cancel Czech TV. Mr. Secretary, this is such a wake-up call. Minister, I love you very much, we've known each other for a long time, but that was a very alarming report that you said Members would like to cancel Czech television by voting for someone. We do not want to cancel Czech TV, I did not hear any of the Members want to cancel Czech TV today by choosing the Czech Television Council. I just wanted to make a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u19	Thank you. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u20	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I will translate. Minister Zaorálek spoke for us Social Democrats in the sense that we need public service media, we need... [[Voices from the O.R.]] So for me, Social Democrat - that we need the public service media, we need independent public service media, because this is one of the basic conditions of a democratic state. And so it is enshrined in international conventions, such as the Council of Europe. I also intercede for a public choice, although I remember very and very much what a miracle it was for us in the '90s when we could vote secretly in personnel matters. But today and in relation to media advice, I actually intercede - and I said it last time - that it is good that we vote publicly because we vote for nominees. It's a little different than when we vote for the people of our midst. Please think about it and let us do everything we can to ensure that media councils are those that promote the role of the media in public services. We need them, and we're gonna need them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u21	Thank you. Minister of the Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u22	I'd like to respond to Jarda Foldyna. Perhaps I can pronounce his name? I can, I can pronounce. But I really didn't suggest anything about disturbing Czech TV, because I don't think it's even something that's the subject. This is about something else. I live in Ostrava, Ostrava is near Poland, sometimes I watch Polish public television and I can tell you that it is simply incomparably weaker than when I compare the level and scope of Czech television. I know very well that any of you can have reservations, and I think that's legitimate. We can have different reservations about Czech television and various parts of its broadcasts, and I think that even for the debate it is an open and possible thing. [[18.40 hours]] But another thing is that we keep Czech TV in the strong form that it has here today and which is not obvious in the space of Central Europe, or between former post-communist states. Sometimes it may seem to me that Czech television is quite an exception in this range and in that strength. That is why I understand that I have also been approached by representatives of the European Broadcasting Union, and that was actually the essence of their communication: You have a strong TV, so it would be good to hold it in the future and not follow the fate of other public televisions, which are far from being so good today, even in view of the interest of viewers, trust and what they are able to cover. So this isn't about TV interference, this is about what position he has in society. And I was just saying that that's something we could agree on, that even in terms of what's going on in that world around us, we need such a strong TV. And now, regardless of the fact that it can be criticized, that you may have reservations about her that you may object to anything. That is all possible, but I still think we should agree that this type of institution in the present world is needed. And I pointed out that even the Coronavirus crisis revealed how much we need something like this. So not disturbing the TV, but keeping it in a certain form, with the fact that it can of course be criticized, that's normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u23	With a point of fact, Mr. Foldyna, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u24	Thank you for your explanation to the Minister. Thank you for the other performances, of course. So I thought about it, and I found out they were the right guys and the bad guys. And I, because I don't know who's good and who's bad in your opinion, and I should vote publicly, so please, those who want us to vote publicly here to go to the microphone and tell us who to vote for to be good, and who to vote for, so it's not wrong. Because we don't know. We want to vote with the best knowledge and conscience as the law commands us, and you told us that we wanted to make the wrong choice. Come on - you want us to vote publicly, come say to the microphone who's wrong and who's right. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u25	Mr Roman Onderka, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u26	Colleague Foldyno, Foldyna, through Mr President. I guess we're gonna have to say it out loud. There are Members in the Chamber of Deputies who are partially protected by immunity. Each of us has made a pledge to Parliament, and I assume that in this honored assembly there are brave ladies and brave gentlemen. And the brave ones aren't afraid to vote publicly, and that's never, ever, ever. And if you guys want to play theater here, play it, but let's just say, let's see how it is. There are people here who want to cut off the director of Czech Television and bring Czech TV into the screenplay à la Hungary for the long term. And then there are people who want to stop it. It's simple. And each of the groups in question makes use of all the possibilities allowed by the law, namely the Rules of Procedure, which is also the law of the Czech Republic, to enforce its visions and opinions. I think the theatre is completely unnecessary, my colleague, Foldyno, Foldyna, through Mr President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u27	Thank you all. Mr. Petr Gazdík has applied here with a factual remark. He's not here at all. [[It's a mistake. A Member of the Wark has called for the floor. Members tap on the bench and ask for a check-out.]] I can't hear you. Mr. Válek is simply reporting, if I understand correctly. Well, I guess I'll check you all out. I don't know why, 'cause we're not gonna vote yet, but okay. Sign up with your cards again so we don't have to tap each other all the time. Mr Vlastimil Válek, with a factual remark, is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u28	Same card, same bald, same routine, once Gazdík, once Válek. Well, Mr President, thank you. I just wanted to thank my colleague Sklenák for his words, and I would like to underline that some - sorry, colleague Onderk for his words. I'm sorry. But from Líšně, from Líšně and from Brno, two handsome young boys, so... But I mean, we're protected by double immunity. Some of us are also vaccinated. I think that this is absolutely fundamental and serious, what he said, through Mr President, Mr Onderka. We are really voting on something that is very important, which is absolutely crucial and what is essential, and we should treat it this way. Thank you so much, Roman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u29	Thank you. President Kováčik, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u30	Thank you for the floor, ma'am and gentlemen, in this evening. I would hate for us to slip into such a flat topic that someone is good and someone worse just because they want to keep their decisions free. Not under pressure that if I choose the wrong person to point out to me, you're the one who wanted to bring the TV back to Hungary, as I just heard. That is why I support the secret vote, because there is a more free decision. And as for Mr. Honorable colleague Gazdík, who then appeared here as a colleague of Wark, or vice versa, I don't know now. I remember my time, for a mistake like this with cards, the mandate fell. I suspect a colleague of Mr. Brousek from Pilsen gave up his mandate because of a card error. Please be careful which card you place in the voting device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u31	We have another performance here with factual remarks. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr Vojtěch Pikal and Mr Vlastimil Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to Mr. Kováčik. Firstly, there is, I think, quite a considerable difference when a Member mistakenly pleads wrong on a factual point and votes for someone. I don't think it's comparable. Second -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u33	I'd ask you not to shout at each other. Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u34	Anyway, I wanted to respond to the core of your communication, through Mr President, with a question. So how are people supposed to vote for Members if they don't even know who voted?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u35	Mr. Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u36	Thank you, Mr President. The way I understood it, it was up to me. Well, I'd like it to be said on the microphone that I was sitting in my seat, I put my card that I don't have here right now, but it's in the device, I pressed the grey button, and I don't understand why Mr Gazdík showed up. I don't know. That's why I'm asking you right now to check the voting device so that this thing doesn't happen to me again and that I don't get attacked by voting for someone else. Because it's my card, I voted from my seat, I voted correctly, and there was a mistake. Please check the voting device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u37	Okay. How much time do we need? Two minutes. So until 18-50, I'm interrupting the meeting to check the voting device.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u38	Can we keep going? I'll ask if everything's okay with the voting device. Yes, I am assured that everything is in absolute order. Mr. MP, President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik, cancels the factual comment, so I have no one registered. Mr Bartošek in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u39	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Just a brief response to my previous speakers. What we are discussing here today is not a question of who to vote for - say the names, we have already heard that from the Prime Minister, say the name, don't be polite, but we are talking about the legitimacy of this election, including whether the choice takes place under the law properly as it should, and whether the choice of these candidates took place under the law, in accordance with the law, that those who will be elected should be proposed in accordance with the law on the Council of Czech Television. I was here yesterday when the meeting began, coming forward with a request to make The Chamber of Deputies dealt with the behaviour and appearance of a member, Mrs Hana Lipovská, within the Czech Television Council, so that the Chamber of Deputies can say what else is and what it is no longer willing to tolerate within the members' behaviour to say: This manner of conduct is unacceptable to us and gives reason for the member to be dismissed. And I repeat to you again the same thing yesterday - who other than the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, i.e. the legislators, should be mindful of the law, especially those laws within which we also operate in the Chamber of Deputies? It must be noted that in today's world and wherever undemocratic dictatorial regimes are trying to establish, they are trying to dominate and dominate several institutions and public media are among them, but it is also, for example, the judiciary, the secret services and so on. And I think that we are currently part of this story in the Czech Republic. I will now read to you what I wanted to tell you in connection with the activities of Hana Lipovská, because I believe that she is actually moving outside the legal framework, and I also want to explain to you why I believe that the Chamber of Deputies should be removed from this Council: "Dear fellow Members, let me quote a few sentences to which this government, headed by Andrej Babiš, has committed itself in its declaration." I am speaking to you, Members and Members of the ANO movement, in particular, at the moment. The text is: "We will pay attention to the transformations of the audiovisual sector in order to meet cultural, social and social needs. We will maintain the current status of public media. We will consistently support their independence." However, the claimed support for the independence of the public service media was given a very special form. Just look at the current situation in the media councils, the Czech Radio Council, the Czech TV Council and the Czech Television Council. In fact, sometimes all you have to do is listen to their actions. I am almost sure that you would encounter some media councillors with statements that are not a support for independence or constructive control of these media, but rather an attempt to undermine their democratic values. The Chamber of Deputies should be a guarantee that the freedom and independence of the media, the public services, will be consistently defended, and we should also take advantage of this task when it comes to Czech television as the most trusted Czech media, as evidenced by public research, on which it relies especially in times of crisis most of our society, and rather, when we realise what public service it did last year for our children, for parents, for seniors, for Czech culture and for audiovision, and when in the period before such important autumn elections we need to be sure that public television is free of any political or other pressures. I am therefore convinced that, when a member of the Czech Television Council commits such an act which seriously undermines the dignity of its office, or when the independence or impartiality of the councilman is called into question in the performance of his duties, the Chamber of Deputies must act, i.e. it has a duty to call for a vote on his continued or non-resistence in the Council. In recent months, I have come to believe that Czech Television Councilman Hana Lipovská has committed such an act and that she does not even meet the basic conditions for working in the Council of Czech Television, which... a member of the Board undertakes not to hold any office in political parties, political movements or civil associations, but also to perform his duties on their behalf in the Council, or to act in their favour or in favour of other group interests. Hana Lipovská is an active member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Freedom and Democracy. She works here with his co-founder and director, former active extreme right-wing politician Jana Bobošíková, who, by the way, in her recent statement for the exhibition on the anniversary of the so-called television crisis, said: "Twenty years ago, Czech Television employees stopped respecting the rules of democratic rule of law, they abused the public viewscreen to promote personal goals. Since politicians did not have the courage to intervene decisively, the impression arose that Czech television was untouchable. It's not, and it's about to turn up." Well, this statement is in itself a clear sign of the bias and bias of the Institute of Freedom and Democracy towards Czech Television, an institute in which the activities of Hana Lipovská are institutionalized. Even Hana Lipovská herself actively promotes in several levels the political line that has the character of ideology in public space. This political line follows a specific rather narrow group of political interests, representing specific political parties or movements, particularly the SPD and the Tricolore, with whose representatives Mrs Lipovská regularly meets and whose agenda is often shared according to social networking activities. [[19.00 hours]] In addition, the beauty of her opinions is often associated with the demagogy and dissemination of semi-true information concerning the Czech Television Council's agenda. Hana Lipovská promotes its political line in public space so intensively and extensively that it has a clearly political dimension. So, while before her election, Hana Lipovská, nominated by the Czech Bishops' Conference, proclaimed how she always wanted to serve in quotation marks of our church, leaving questions of church and religious outside her work in the Czech Television Council and dedicated herself to the aims of her own. It became so extreme that the Archbishop of Olomouc and Chairman of the Czech Bishops' Conference, His excelence Graubner, called for abdication with the words: "I am sorry that the member of the board nominated by the Czech Bishops' Conference gives the impression that he defends the interests of some particular groups or persons, in this respect I understand and share public concerns. " Hana Lipovská, on the other hand, actively serves his institute, is his analyst, author or co-author of articles in which he presents his agenda in the Council of Czech Television unilaterally and significantly disinterpretation style, unless even before the Council discussed the proposals, and also speaks to other public institutions under the head of the Institute. He meets as a member of this institute with the President of the Republic, is co-signed under the criminal notice of three constitutional judges: Pavel Rychetský, Jan Filip and Kateřina Šimáčková. As a member of the Institute, it is signed under the material on alleged security risks and events on Czech Television addressed to parliamentary committees, the Security Council of the State or the Ministry of Finance. The combination itself is very bizarre. It is also signed together with Jana Bobošíková and Jana Dědečková under a letter from Members of the European Parliament accusing the Senate and the Minister of Culture of pressure on Czech television. Its impartiality is also demonstrated by the situation in which the Council of Czech Television advocated a proposal that supported the media and political agenda promoted by its co-worker Jana Bobošíková. Specifically, it was a proposal to discuss a complaint against the Czech Television report about Lidice from the Czech News Agency. At the meeting of the Czech Television Council, Mrs Lipovská presented it at the same time as Jana Bobošíková critically reported this report at the Institute of Freedom and Democracy as well as at the time the chair of the regional organization of the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters Lidice. In doing so, Mrs Bobošíková presented an angle of political perspective on the matter and Councilwoman Lipovská supported Mrs Bobošíková's media and political campaign with her parallel proposal, or complaints in the Czech Television Council. She worked in cooperation with her and tried to get this artificially induced problem back at the meeting in the Czech Television Council, although the Czech Television Council had previously addressed it and closed it. Dear colleagues, the Institute of Freedom and Democracy Hana Lipovská is a formalized institution, but de facto acts as a politically focused society, the purpose of which is, on the one hand, the propaganda of a group of political views, on the other hand, the exclusive criticism of political parties or representatives of the state. Hana Lipovská is thus engaged in an activity which mainly consists of the promotion of certain social or political interests within the meaning of § 214 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 of the Civil Code, which is a legal character or if you want the purpose of the association, rather than that it consists in the activity of a classic, generally beneficial, institute, that is, in the activity, by means of services which are useful socially or economically and whose results are equally available to everyone within the meaning of Section 402 of the Civil Code. In essence, it is an influential political agency, which to some extent exploits the legal form of the constitution. Mrs Lipovská is a political person who represents and intensively promotes political interests. Its clearly politically oriented activity is reflected in the preparation of the politically focused outputs of the Institute, which is a typical influence political agency in politically focused media and social networks and in the promotion of its agenda in the Czech Television Council. Even if its political activity is reflected in these three planes, it represents, in essence, an integral whole that she cannot separate herself. It can be seen that even after being elected as a member of the Czech Television Council, it has not ceased to be active in the said institute. Finally, the House's legislative department also took the view that Hana Lipovská, as a member of the Czech Television Council, should not express her views and attitudes on behalf of any public body, particularly in matters falling within the scope of the Board under Section 8 of the Czech Television Act, since such statements may call into question her independence or impartiality in the performance of the board member's duties. For all the reasons that I have said, it is clear that Hana Lipovská, acting in full, breaks the ban applicable to a member of the Czech Television Council pursuant to § 5 para. 2, the sentence of the First Act on Czech Television, according to which it may not act in favour of group interests in the performance of its duties, while at the same time fulfilling the factual nature of the removal from office by systematically committing acts which challenge its independence or impartiality in the performance of the function of a member of the Board within the meaning of Article 6 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Czech Television Act. Its political activity in itself is possible and admissible in a democratic legal state, but it is unacceptable in terms of the quoted attributes of Czech television's independence. At the same time, in my opinion, political action seriously undermines the dignity of the office of member of the Czech Television Council, which is according to § 6 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Czech Television Act is another reason for which I believe that the Chamber of Deputies should withdraw it from office. Yesterday I said that I consider it necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this point in order for us to address this in plenary, if necessary, to speak up and say: We believe that its work is absolutely fine, we tolerate it, we respect it, in our view it is not a violation of the law, for us it is fine, in this way any other member of the Czech Television Council can behave and for us it is fine. [[19.10 hours]] I was prepared, colleagues and colleagues, to take this view with you. Unfortunately, you didn't include it in the program, and I'm expecting a statement from you at least today. This decision would be precedent, as far as the threshold of pain reaches you Members and us Members who say that it is still okay, because the laws aren't from whether they apply now because it suits us and we're fine, or because it doesn't work for us. If we look at the laws of any kind, including the Czech Television Council, with benevolence, with the fact that it is actually our choice right now and we don't mind, then believe it is poison and whip, which ultimately turns against those who are currently acting like that. At the beginning, I announced that I was basing my claim on legal opinions. I will begin with the opinion of the legislative department on the examination of possible conflicts of interest of a member of the Czech Television Council. With my question of assessment, I turned to the electoral committee and I thank its President, Mr Berkovc, for having discussed the matter and provided the opinion of the legislative department. I will read it to tell you why I came up with this point because I believe it is a legal opinion that should help us in our decision-making. At the request of the President of the Election Committee, Mgr Stanislav Berkovec in the matter of examining the possible conflict of interests of a member of the Czech Television Council, in parentheses: hereinafter referred to as the Council, Ing. Hana Lipovská, ., we give you the following opinion. The legislation contained in Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, is so general and obsolete, in parentheses: because it was adopted at a time, including amendments, when some legal forms of organizations did not exist - the end of the parentheses, that it does not give sufficient legal basis for a clear assessment of this matter. Nor can it be based on the explanatory notes to the law and the comments made by experts on media law, which do not deal with this problem. Likewise, the current House of Practice has not yet dealt with similar things according to our knowledge. As a result, the existing arrangements and the wording of the individual provisions raise a number of questions which cannot be answered unambiguously. However, we are inclined to believe that appointed as a member of the Council should not, on behalf of any public body, express its views and positions, particularly in matters falling within the competence of the Council pursuant to Section 8 of the cited law, since such observations may call into question its independence or impartiality in the exercise of the function of a member of the Council. The assessment of possible conflicts of interest and decisions in this matter falls within the scope of the whole The Chamber of Deputies with this - thank you - that the motion for an appeal appointed from the Council pursuant to § 6 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) and Section 6 (b) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) The Czech Television Act may be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies both by the Election Committee and by any Member, which I have done, because the motion for an appeal, as is said here, may be submitted either by the Member or by the Committee. [[The House employee brought Mr Bartošek a cup of water.]] I was based on this assessment. Since it is not for the legislative department to provide binding interpretations of legislation, we consider the participation of a member of our department in this matter to be unfounded at the meeting of the electoral committee. We therefore recommend that we address this question to external media experts who could subsequently also take part in the electoral committee's deliberations and give their opinion on the matter. However, it is clear that any position will always be expressed to a large extent by the existing legislation, and therefore a binding interpretation of the Czech Television Act can only be made by the court when examining a specific proposal. There. Since I have said that the fact will require a legal opinion, I have secured it, because I want to rely on the statement of lawyers who are able to assess the legality or lawlessness of this behaviour, while I have prepared an analysis, namely a legal analysis of possible conflicts of interest. Dr. Svoboda made the legal opinion available to you, and at the same time I have a legal opinion from the law firm Kučera & Associates, a law firm that I have received from Senator Smoljak, and this analysis evaluates the eligibility of organizations proposing candidates for the Czech Television Council. To not only speak to me, I will allow others to speak, and then I will return to the speaker's desk to introduce you to these analyses, because I believe that they are important for our further decision-making on the election of the Czech Television Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u40	Thank you. Good evening. I'm saying that we've already exceeded the time for law enforcement, so today we have nothing but these electoral points ahead of us. First, with Mr Bláha's factual remark, then Mr Feranec, then I have some priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u41	My fellow Members, my colleague, I would like to learn a lesson because I am a young servant and I really do not know about it, so I would like to ask if we have actually voted against the laws in secret in all the elections that have been voted in secret so far, that is, as bad. In fact, you've all been involved in this for years, and nothing happened, it was fine. And now all of a sudden, the secret choice is the bad one. I am saying that the secret choice is wrong, he heard, because again for a change I am a little bit more physically compared to you when I went to school. That's where they always told us: "What you want must be heard publicly. And, of course, people who publicly applied to their opinions, often suffered for their opinions, were thrown out of work - for example, it happened to me - or they were removed from school and so on. When times changed, it was normal that any choice was automatically secret, because the fact that they were chosen publicly, we were here from 1948 to 1989. And so I'd like to ask, "Do we want to go back to that time?" Do we want to lynch people for their opinion or for their decision? I get it in lawmaking, we're here and we're answering, but I definitely don't get it in choice. That's what we can ask citizens to do when they vote to sign! Well, we can't live like this. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] So I'm sorry, and I want you to think about it, and we haven't come back 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u42	So I will just point out that the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, because we have been called upon to learn, states that if the law or the House decides who is elected by secret ballots, otherwise public votes are chosen. This means the starting principle is a public vote unless the law provides otherwise or unless the House decides otherwise. Thank you. Now, Mr Feranec, then Mr Ferjenčík and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond with a factual remark to what Bartošek said about the assessment. He's not a lawyer, maybe he doesn't know. [[19.20 hours]] Mr Bartošek, through Mr President, there is no such thing as an expert in law. There's no such thing. The only authority that can decide on legal matters is the court. Everything else is just some opinion of the person who presents it. So I repeat: there is no category of judicial expert in law. It never was, and I hope it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u44	Thank you. Now, with Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark, Mrs Langšádlová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to briefly respond to my colleague Bláha, who asked a question about the secret and public elections. For three years, the pirates have consistently advocated for Members to vote publicly, because, as we vote, people are then voting in elections. And if he does not know how we are voting, I think it is quite difficult to assess whether he agrees or disagrees with the action of the Member in question. We therefore uphold the principle of public elections if elected representatives are elected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u46	Thank you. Now, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u47	Thank you for the floor. I don't think the comparison of the public election, the secret election would really be appropriate. Of course, the choice we are voting for, for example, in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies is classified by law. But it is also perfectly legitimate and transparent to demand a public choice. There is nothing wrong with this or there is nothing wrong with it so that, Mr - through Mr President - you may also have the opportunity to express yourself to your constituents, whom you prefer to represent, perhaps, you in the Council of Czech Television. You know, I have had many elections here, and I very much respect the fact that more left-wing opinions, more right-wing opinions, more liberal opinions, more conservative opinions have always been represented in the Czech Television Council. But the reason why there may actually be more words about this council election today, and it happens the way it happens, is because of our experience in the last elections and how this election is being prepared, when I believe the committee has failed. The Committee has not complied with the rules laid down by law. People who have been nominated by institutions that do not comply with the law have been nominated. I think that the experience, too, is not really about who has more right-wing, left-wing, liberal, conservative views, but really some representatives in the Czech Television Council do not perform those tasks. It really is often such a panoptics. And I have to say, it's beyond dignity and beyond the role of the law that this council has. And really public media is one of the cornerstones of democratic society, and we have to fight for them. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u48	Thank you. Now, Mr Antonín Staněk, then Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let's start with note number one. I speak here as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Antonín Staněk, not for the club of the Czech Social Democratic Party, so that some do not feel that I speak for the ČSSD because it may not like it. Ad 2, when I announced before the first election of members of the Czech Television Council that we are going to have a hot summer at the second choice, because everyone remember how we were all being blamed here, who wanted to vote, how they wanted to vote, that we didn't actually vote democratically, that we were voting differently under different influences and so on, so I said, "Wait for what happens in the second choice! Here we go. And now a factual remark on the pre-speaker. Yes, my colleague wanted to place a point here on the appeal of Councilwoman Lipovská. This item was not included in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And what have we witnessed at this time? We have witnessed a vast accusation of a woman who stands in the Council of Czech Television and defends interests according to her best conscience. We have heard wannabe facts here, but not one fact was supported specifically. I could talk about a lot and a lot of things like that. Mrs Lipovská is doing nothing but her expertise, which means as an economist she monitors the economics of Czech television and draws attention to the shortcomings associated with this management. To this day, no one has answered any of the questions that were raised during the debate with the management of Czech Television and so on. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] I'm gonna keep him, and I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u50	Sure, it's possible, thank you. Mr Bláha now, Mr Holomčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u51	Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say to the pirát, through the President, that, like them, building youth promoted a public election in the 1950s. And it really seemed like there were trials with those people who publicly gave their opinion. And notice how people were condemned without doing anything, based on public opinion! It's a hugely dangerous thing. That means, do you really think about it and think about why it's always been a secret election here in the Chamber of Deputies? Are you saying that everything that went undercover here was wrong? It is transparent for me to decide whether there will be a secret choice or a public one, most in the Chamber of Deputies. It is the right of every Member, and we should respect it, so that what is happening here does not happen, that nothing has happened yet, that no one has yet been elected, and we are already condemning it in advance. This means that we are already saying in advance: What others will do is wrong. But you can't live like this in a free state! We each have the right to an opinion, we each have the right to a choice, and we should respect each other. Believe that since socialism, we have slowly returned to communism. In socialism, a lot of things weren't as common as they are today. And we could talk about this for a long time. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u52	Thank you. Now, Mr Holomčík, Mr Juchelka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u53	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered a moment ago. I just wanted to supplement my colleague Ferjenčík in response to Mr Bláha and Mr Bláha developed this even more. I find it extremely unfortunate to be stupid here to compare the choice of a citizen in elections and the choice of a Member as a representative of the people in the Chamber of Deputies. We would never, in any way, question the fact that any citizen's choice in democratic elections must be secret. That is the basic principle of free elections, that every single person votes secretly. But we're not in the position of a citizen here. We're in the position of deputy citizen here. We are enjoying the mandate that we have obtained in democratic elections from the citizens of this country. And yet somehow we have to be able to tell you why these people are voting for us. I totally respect that, although I disagree, but I respect that someone's public choice can eat, that they may not like it. I respect that. It's different for us. But I'd really appreciate it if we didn't use this donkey bridge, which is more donkey than bridge, by comparing the denial of a secret election to citizens by wanting to vote publicly here. That's total nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u54	Thank you. Now, Mr Juchelka. Mr Dolínek will be prepared, then Mr Sklenák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I saw a few speeches on YouTube before 1989, and I can say that my colleague Bartošek, through Mr President, was very close to this. Mr Bartošek, through Mr President, with me, and I am very sorry, humanly, that you have fallen, by this speech and by the accusation of Hana Lipovská, to the full political bottom. You're a demagog, a manipulator, and a liar. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Free elections are one of the highest values of every democracy. And I ask all those who will reconstruct again whether these free elections, whether this value will be trampled again by taking a two-hour break from the 20th hour each club so that we cannot again freely elect other members of the Czech Television Council and other members of the Supervisory Board. I ask you whether you will once again explore democratic elections, which are the fundamental value and pillar of every democracy. We've been elected here, and we're free to vote for these very institutions, which you're going to reconstruct again. It's incredible what's going on here. Demagogy, lies and manipulation. This is not about anything else, only the permission of four councillors on Czech Television, who according to the law have no other function than to do that they control management, activity. And that's what they do with their best consciousness and conscience. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u56	Thank you, and Mr Bartošek has made a point of fact, but I must prefer those who have applied earlier, so Mr Dolínek, then Mr Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u57	Thank you. I would like to say to Mr Bláh, through Mr President, that you do not only have ties in a number of Pirates, but the Social Democracy Club has its resolution that it wants a public choice. So you've got 14 social democracy unions 40 to who knows how many years. I don't suppose you can accuse my colleagues of being unionists. Please weigh your words, weigh who you're attacking here. We have a simple reason. The law predicts primarily a public election, only if it wants a plenary, so the choice will be secret. We do not question that when most vote secretly, it will be a secret choice. We're just saying that at this point, the subject is so fundamental, so socially open and so divided, that it's completely normal and legitimate to ask everyone to sign up for this. In the vast majority of other elections, whether it's RRTV, the Wine Fund and the others we have or have had in history, the choices are simple. The political parties here nominated, secretly elected. Here they nominate organizations who have been proven legally to fail to comply with the legal requirements required by the law or who do not fulfil their purpose under the law in order to be able to nominate. Yet their nominees have been proposed, and we say, so let's go public and say who's applying to these nominees. Nothing more, nothing less. But social democracy respects the majority will of the House. So please, colleague, let us also give our opinion. Then let's let the majority vote, and we'll definitely follow it like we always do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u58	Thank you. Now, Mr Sklenák, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u59	Thank you. I will also follow my previous speaker to Mr Bláh. He said -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u60	Please, but through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u61	Mr President, I do not address the fifth fall of the Member. I said I wanted to say something towards the Members. So you don't have to remind me. I hope you'll give me a few more seconds. Look, Czech Television, Czech Radio and the Czech Press Office are the only three public institutions that are not financed from the state budget. There is one good reason, and it is precisely that they should be as far away from political influence as possible. Because if you look at our neighbors who went over to fund public media through the state budget, it turned out very badly. Those televisions became state television, then government television, and then basically vocal trumpets just ruled by garnitures. So here he wants to, and that was the intention of the legislator, to keep these institutions from political influence. Therefore, the members of the Czech Television Council do not propose politicians, MPs, as Mr Dolínek said, but associations, institutions outside politics. That is why we believe that, in this case and only in this case, there is a public choice so that all citizens who actually own the television can see how those who have been sent to the Chamber of Deputies defend their interests and who they elect. That's the logic of our proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u62	Thank you. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Langšádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, by your means, I would like to respond to my colleague Bláha. I would recommend to him that if he calls on us here to respect each other, he does not insult people that they are unionists. Then you look more like a hypocrite than a person who really wants to have some general respect in this hall. First of all. Secondly, I wanted to respond to my colleague Juchelka, through you. The point is that you're trying to control Czech TV and you want to do it so that they can't even write a paper about it, because it'll be after the deadline, instead of putting it normally at the beginning of the day and it could be a topic. You do not even want citizens to know who voted in this key vote. And you're insulting us! Fuck you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u64	Thank you and I will ask for a better language in the hall after all. We'll probably be here a long time after all, so let's just stick together. Now, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Bláha will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u65	Thank you for the floor. It has been said several times that democracy is about choice and that democracy is actually when elected. Well, it's not exactly that simple with democracy. Democracy is also about the division of power. Democracy is about civil society. Democracy is also about protecting institutions. And the one rare for democracy is the institution here today, because democracy includes protecting public media. We may not like what they do sometimes, and believe us that we, who have experienced participation in the government, did not like many shows, even those you may not like, either! That is because they are critical, very often critical of either the government party or the government group. But that doesn't mean we can destroy public media. And the elections have really been such lately that it's headed towards destruction and control of Czech television. This is a very serious situation for us, and in addition to the choice of this democratic process, you simply cannot overrule the fact that you do not comply with the law. It is a fact that part of the nominated committee and the votes voted by the committee do not answer - it does not answer! - the provisions of the law. And that's something you haven't explained to us all along. I don't think there's anything to choose from, nothing to discuss it explains that the electoral committee selects candidates who are proposed by legitimate organisations and associations. You really haven't done this. I don't think we can continue the debate until this is clarified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u66	Thank you. Mr Bláha now, then Mr Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u67	A serious colleague, colleagues, hasn't said a word about the bunches here. I didn't even compare anyone directly to building youth. I was just saying that that's what building kids were talking about in the '50s. But the comparison that I would say: Yes, Mr pirát, through Mr President, you are such - in no way. You guys still haven't answered the only question that was the most important: so up until now, all the choices that were classified were wrong? Hasn't it been okay so far? No one? Our citizens, the Members before us and before us? I don't get it. If the Chamber of Deputies chooses something, we should approach it normally and it should work in some way. And believe me, I'm the last one who wants to break the law and prefer someone. I would love to see Czech TV be independent, but really independent, that it will not push into the answers it wants to hear and deal with things differently than they really are. And I am so sorry about this discussion here. Instead of doing our job, we're playing games that are absolutely in conflict, we're dealing with things that we'll never affect. There is talk here that Czech TV is independent of the budget. That's not true! We are discussing what fees will be charged, which will be collected from our citizens, we are setting the amount of fees, not Czech TV. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] We have to agree, and that's how the Czech TV is. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u68	Thank you. Mr Staněk now, then Mr Zlesák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u69	Thank you for the floor. I understand that today's goal is to last until 20 o'clock, and then we're gonna have those lovely breaks. So I don't want to contribute time stretching within 20 hours, but again, I just want to remind you of one thing. I want to stand up for Mrs Lipovská because she didn't have the opportunity to come out here and defend and clarify everything that was said here. And I really, really don't like that. Then I want to say that when choosing the members of the board, we choose those who are to oversee the management of Czech Television. To this day, we, Members, do not understand whether the top management of Czech television has or is not to submit property confessions. I am personally convinced that this is the case. And there are many and many other questions that we could ask from a second point of view and from a second point of view of the spectrum of this problem. And unfortunately, here they sounded - and that's why I also stepped out - only topics from the point of view of one. And I won't say why or what the meaning and purpose is. So I want to defend the mutual truth. I don't know if the truth will come out, but there should be room for anyone who's been demoted here in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u70	Thank you. I believe the truth will prevail. Mr Zlesák, please, and Mr Bartošek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to some previous speakers who have compared Members and ordinary citizens here. I understand that this comparison is a little limpy, but I read an interesting paper some time ago on the Federal Assembly, which worked from around 1969 to 1990. Try to guess how many times in these about 30 or 20 years they secretly voted. They didn't vote once, and you know why? Well, it was justified that all power belongs to the working people. And I think it is entirely legitimate if the House plenary decides that there will be a secret choice. I see no problem, and I am happy to vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u72	We're really going to decide that in the vote if we get to it. Mr Bartošek, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a little bit of what I said here. I have come up with the fact that I believe that my opinion is based on some legal analysis, which I believe is correct. I came in and I said, "Let's talk about it." You can convince me that my point of view is wrong or that I'm wrong - put a point in place and argue. Mr Former Minister of Culture, through Mr President, come on. Come and convince me that my arguments are odd, that what I'm saying isn't true, that my initial opinions are wrong. I'll be convinced, or I'll be happy to argue with you about it. And the second thing, listen to me carefully. I didn't question any of those people who were designed for the second round. I said I wanted to talk again about the legal analysis of whether the organisations they propose comply with the law. That's all. I am not attacking anyone, I am not accusing anyone, I am only talking about whether the law is respected in the case of the election of the Czech Television Council. That's all. Otherwise, Mr Juchelka, through Mr President, I think we can talk about a lot of things with culture. I understand that some things are a matter of taste that I do not sit in this situation. Perhaps, for your stomach, a more bearable prime minister is in conflict of interest, with which no one in Europe is talking, that there is more bearable pressure for your stomach on the Attorney General from the Minister of Justice, who would rather resign. Maybe your stomach can take this better, including a personnel carousel at the Ministry of Health -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u74	Ambassador, I feel obliged to call you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u75	I guess it's really a matter of taste. I'm here to respect the law, and that's what I want to talk about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u76	Thank you. Mr Kasal, then Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will turn, through you, to Mr. Ferjenčík and Holomčík. You know, colleagues, when you step out and accuse someone of insulting me, I don't know who first called the MP a donkey. It was nicely said - the donkey bridge, actually without the bridge. And the second thing, Mr. Ferjenčík. All you have to do is say it in a calm voice, you don't have to get upset. We can hear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u78	Thank you, we'll continue. Mr Juchelka and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Real notes are gradually increasing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u79	Thank you very much. I will speak to Mr Ferjenčík, through you, because I have not spoken of a secret or a public choice. I was talking about free elections. And I am asking you, and I have not received the answer, whether you will gradually take breaks from the 20th hour to complete the free choice, thereby preventing Members from voting for the Czech Television Council. And I also have a question for Mr Bartošek and Mrs Langšádlová, through you. So if we're talking specifically, tell us which civil associations specifically and what they're violating. Maybe they'll call. And if, of course, you have it from Mr. Kučera's law firm, we've been discussing it for about two hours on the election committee, you could have been present, you could have also spoken, you could have said what's bothering you. There was a very, I would say, passionate discussion about it. You probably didn't even listen to the footage, and you're gonna be here fencing what Senator Smoljak will present to you. And, of course, I hope that you can also read from that lawyer Kučera such matters as that we see from this civic association that there is no active Facebook, that they are not active on Facebook, because it is probably terribly important for some civic associations that should nominate. Maybe you can tell us which civic association is important, which may or may not be on Jesenick's gymnastics club, which educates other coaches, because there is a fantastic childhood coach there, because we only want them to pay licence fees, but not to control Czech television in some way. [[19.50 hours]] It's a dusty elitist here! Tell me specifically which of the 12 people you're worried about, why you're bothered by what they've broken for the law, and what's illegal about these civil associations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u80	Now, Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Čižinský - factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Bláha and answer his fundamental question, if everything has been wrong here for the last 30 years - that is what your Prime Minister says. In any case, we believe that it is more appropriate for elected representatives to vote publicly, and we want to take advantage of the opportunity to establish this trend. We are pleased that, at least in this particular situation, more parties have turned to our side than usual. In the last 30 years, things have been different. Sometimes the vote was publicly, sometimes secretly. From our point of view, it was legal. However, the public election for elected representatives, I stress, is more appropriate in our opinion. I also wanted to respond to my colleague, Kasal, who spoke here about those addresses in this House. And I wanted to say that my colleague, Holomčík, was much more polite to colleague Bláh than the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u82	I would like to thank and ask Mr Čižinský for a point of fact. After that, Mr Staněk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u83	Thank you. After all, I would like to respond a little to Mr Juchelka. I really think that - and it is simply given by historical experience, how democracy cares - that democracy and freedom really need to be cared for and that it puts greater demands on the majority, that it puts less demands on the minority, that the majority must care for freedom and democracy not to suffer. I think that a lot of people in the ANO movement should be nervous about just the coalition that has just been formed here, the SPD, the Communists and the YES. I think many of you should be nervous about what kind of coalition is here right now. And here - if you can then take technical and respond to it, I'll be glad - if there is any other coalition that would make you nervous. [[One of the Members responds to the performer.]] But I would actually stand up for the obstruction, too, because it's just a call for a minority to come to an agreement, especially when it's something that we should take care of together. And unfortunately, there are people here who say they're calling for management control, but in fact, they're trying to damage and relax Czech television, and they're actually actually destroying it. Yeah, we're missing a good public law here. We're really missing it here. But I really think that a lot of people are nervous about what kind of coalition has been created here for this vote on Czech Television. And it's okay to want people to see and know who voted. It's legitimate - it doesn't have to go through, but it's totally fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u84	Thank you. Now Mr Dolínek, then Mrs Kořanová, then Mr Španěl. Mr Dolínek withdraws, or Mr Čižinský - he has already acted, Mrs Kořanová, then Mr Španěl - factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u85	Thank you for the floor. Well, some of them could really learn in the '50s. You don't want that public choice for people, you want that public choice so that you personally can cast us and blame us for who we vote for. That's the only reason you want that choice. I must point out to Mr Bartošek: I take it, as you really have the assignment of Mrs Lipovská, who is a small, intelligent, skinny, tiny woman, simply to liquidate her, because you don't solve other councillors. For example, you were not in favour of addressing Mr Šarapatka and his appeal to the committee. We weren't! You only deal with what's comfortable for you. For example, you don't solve the conflict of interests of the CEO, at all, that the councilmen should actually admit property confessions, including the CEO, who doesn't have to admit it, which is odd, because I think he's a public official because he's paid out of taxpayers' money. You don't really deal with these important things that aren't comfortable for you, like the Dominik Feri case or, for example, Schwarzenberg's statement on the subject today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u86	Thank you. I'd like to call again maybe a little bit to the point after all. Mr Španěl with a factual remark, then Mr Holomčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u87	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that I am an absolutely non-conflict type, but it still does not allow me, through Mr President, to turn to you, Mr Bartošek. We weren't deaf in our first performance, and we heard what you said. It was a very aggressive performance. In your second performance, you have already kind of admitted that these were your impressions, and on such impressions that you present as facts, there is really no way to build such serious accusations as you made in your first speech. And I would also like to say to this House that for about six years it has been on the petition committee, that is... yes, on the petition committee, I hope, somewhere in the archives, the vast thousands of petition sheets signed by our citizens, who were dissatisfied with the work of Czech Television and its management. So please, you really represent a minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u88	Thank you. Mr Holomčík, then Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u89	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Kasal. If I want to say he's an ass, I'll say he's an ass. I evaluated the statement, not the author. Basically, I don't use ad hominem arguments. But my colleague Bláha is not here, so perhaps from the record, through Mr President. I apologize to my colleague Bláh, if he has the impression that I said he was an ass. I didn't say it, I don't even think it. So I just wanted it to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u90	Thank you. Now, Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u91	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to answer Mr. Juchelek because I consider it rude if one does not answer a clear question. Anyway, we will fight for the independence of Czech television. We will strive to prevent the orbanization of the Czech Republic and the orbanization of Czech television. And if you don't mind, we won't tell you our tactics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u92	Thank you. Now Mr Holík, then Mr Válek, then only Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u93	So, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good evening again. I would like, through Mr President, to ask Mr Čižinský, who spoke here about the representatives of the three political parties, and it seemed to me that it was with a lot of respect. My colleague, am I to understand that members of the SPD, YES and communists are inferior?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u94	Thank you. Mr Válek now, then Mr Juchelka - factual remarks. There are seven of them at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u95	I think - thank you, Mr President - ladies and gentlemen, that we are getting too personal. I was worried someone was gonna step up and say that Kalousek was responsible for everything. God forbid it hasn't happened yet, I hope it doesn't happen. I would like to assure my colleague, through Mr President, if he feels that he is inferior, I certainly do not think so about him as I do not think he is inferior to any of you. We just have different opinions, we have different opinions in different political parties. We are trying to promote these views in a democratic way. I might as well say that those who don't want to vote publicly are ashamed of who they want to vote for. I would never say that in my life because there are two variations. There's always a discussion that makes the option better, whether it's secret or public. This is where the debate takes place on scientific advice, it takes place in professional societies. Everywhere I've ever been, there's always been this debate. There is always a group that believes that the fairer one is a public form of vote, another that thinks that there is a fairer secret form of vote. What I am to say is which is fairer, and I would ask that you, as I respect those who think they will vote secretly - I do not know what leads them to this, but it is their decision - so please do not insult those who want to vote publicly. I think both of them have their pluses, both of them have their minuses, both of us can justify. [[20.00 hours]] For me, what is essential here, through the President, was that the previous speakers said that it was built so that the one that is legally public, but we can vote on it being secret. Okay, we'll vote on it, we'll decide. It's very simple. So make a point of who ever performed here and how many oppositions, how many coalition MPs there were, I wouldn't dramatize. The fact is, that's just the situation. We're trying to make that advice look the way we want it to, you're trying to make it look the way you want it to. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u96	Thank you. Yes, we will get to the vote after the debate is closed. Mr. Ambassador, before I give you my word, I will introduce the House with a note. Mr Běhounek apologizes from 19:00 until the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. To Mr Válek first, through you. But we won't know, Mr. Válek, unfortunately. 'Cause you guys are gonna be building up this election, so we're not even gonna know if we're gonna vote publicly or secretly, 'cause we're probably not gonna vote tonight. That is why I ask again whether you, as Chairman of TOP 09, will take a two-hour break or not, and whether you will say on a fair basis whether we are going to vote today on whether it should be a public or a secret election, and whether we are going to vote today on which four councilmen of the twelve are going to be allowed to the Czech Television Council. And to Mr Čižinský, through Mr President. When it comes to saying that we should care for democracy, I ask if we care for it precisely by pervading one of the fundamental pillars and values, and these are free elections, just by manipulating, lying and having demagogical comments, insulting the individual councillors here who cannot defend themselves, we will not know their views, because none of you have ever been on the electoral committee, nor have you taken it from the record. You're just gonna be obsessing about the fact that you're not okay with someone having a different opinion. And that's exactly what we're talking about here. About democracy, about us expressing our views here in the House by voting, about the fact that the elections that put us here in the House are free elections that we are passing on, like the RRTV Supervisory Board or any other, but you are not! You guys are just gonna build it up, so I'm gonna ask you straight: are you gonna take a two-hour break? Are we voting today, or are we not voting today? And I'm also asking again specifically whether you can tell me which of these civic associations are the toxic ones that the councilmen are the toxic ones, or are you going to label it as someone who wants to destroy Czech television. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] That's a lie I didn't hear more!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u98	Thank you. I will just point out that the calendar day ends at 24 o'clock and the meeting day ends at 9 o'clock at the beginning of the next day. So much for getting to the vote today. Mr Jurečka now, then Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u99	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I must say that I am sorry about the personal plane to which it is moving around. It wasn't a suggestion for us... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] It's okay, I've got enough time tonight, tomorrow, all night. I'm totally ready, okay? It was not our proposal that we want to act after 21st hour and after 24th hour. I'm really ready to have a substantive debate on this subject for hours. I don't have a problem with that at all. And the public or private election debate. So one of you has a problem and you're ashamed of how you would possibly vote? I suppose it is not that there is not a single Member or a Member who should have a public election problem. I mean, we're perfectly fine with each other, and we're able to stand up for our opinion and defend it. Then why is there such a panic about whether it's public or not? It's okay if we just stick to what the law assumes in that first step and vote publicly. Anybody got a problem with that? Why is this debate even at this point? Yes, we'll decide on the vote, but we don't have to argue about this right now and say it's undemocratic, as my colleague Bláha said. Oh, my God, what's undemocratic about this? I mean, there are hundreds of hundreds of dollars for this term of office of this House, where we can see how each and every one of us voted. I'm not ashamed of a single vote in my life, whether it's public or secret, and I'd defend all those secret ones completely in a public way. If you have a problem with that, I hope you don't. So let's have the debate, we're ready, it's after 20 o'clock. The answer to Aleš Juchelka - we are still negotiating, and we will certainly continue to act, and we will certainly act for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u100	Thank you. Now, Mr Bartošek, Mr Plzák will be prepared. Please make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u101	Thank you for the floor. I will repeat here once again: what I have read was the opinion of the legislative department. What I'm going to read is the opinions of lawyers, which means they're not conjecture, they're the opinions of lawyers. Since two minutes won't be enough for me, yes, I will actually read the analysis of the proposing organizations. And Mr. Juchelka, if anyone is toxic or not, that's what you're saying. My dictionary is that I say that I am interested in whether or not the law on election to the Council of Czech Television is fulfilled. That's my dictionary. I consider what you say to be quite unfair, because I have actually been leading the debate from the beginning, whether everything is within the law, whether the law is fulfilled or not. I'm talking to you about all this, and that's what I wanted to talk to you about. And to Mrs Kořanová, through Mr President. If you feel that any other councilman violates the law of the Czech Television Council, you can deal with it in plenary as much as I can. You can suggest it anyway, you can discuss it the same way, you have the same right as I do, because we all care about the law being respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u102	Thank you. Now, Mr Plzák, then Mrs Kořanová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u103	Good late afternoon, almost evening. Here on the part of the Pirate Party, we're fighting for independent television. And, you know, it looks like one of us is here who doesn't want an independent TV. And if you know that, I specifically want an independent TV, which is why I want to vote, which is why I want to afford the people I think will secure the independent TV, and if you're saying that I don't want an independent TV, please come and prove to me that I don't want an independent TV. Let me get this straight, why I don't want an independent TV. Come here and say it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u104	I'm sorry, I've been dealing with something. Now Mrs Kořanová, then Mr Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u105	Thank you for the floor. Only Mr. Bartošek, through you, will I remind you that I have proposed to the councilman's appeal committee, who speaks of us as pigs and worse things, and you have said to me: "It will be a dangerous precedent, we councilmen will never call back, because that is what everyone here would want, and all the time. Here we go. So you just drink - you preach water, you drink wine, or whatever it is, but what I wanted to say is this isn't about a public and secret choice. It's about this hypocritical clown shop, like the way you design candidates for those little tips. It's not supposed to be like this at all! If it were transparent, like the big council, we wouldn't be arguing for two hours about a public election or a secret one, because we could have already voted for it, because the councilmen would just - now I don't know by when - just without four pieces. You had the opportunity to propose a change to the Czech Television Act for four years, and you did nothing! So let's write it down, I'll do it, and let's transparentize it so, the choice for small advice, so it's just legitimate, because it's always going to be decided by the political spectrum anyway! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u106	Thank you. Now, Mr Bláha, Mr Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u107	Dear colleagues, colleagues, in my youth before 1989, it was common for public to say something other than what people thought. And believe that this is the way it is in life, that most people in public rarely, when they have to give their opinion, say their opinion. He usually tells his opinion, like his colleagues or his superiors, or he doesn't say it at all because he's ashamed of him - or not that he's ashamed, but they're afraid that others might hurt them. They're vulnerable mentally, physically. I've always been the open mind, and I've said those things straight, and believe me, it's never been easy in my life. And I see it at my firm that often people don't want to be publicly praised, because then they get it from their colleagues. I've been living for 60 years, and since kindergarten, I've noticed that people aren't being straight. How do you know, for example, with the Pirates, through Mr President, that you all want to vote as much as the President? As long as you don't vote secretly, you won't know, because those people who would like to vote differently just won't express themselves, they'll be worried about their position, their position, their reputation. That's just the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u108	Thank you. Before I say another word, two announcements. First, the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes to us from 20 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, and then the agreement reached me by all the members of the parliamentary clubs that, therefore, the day would end the following day at 8 o'clock so that the break between 8 o'clock and 9 o'clock would be for possible cleaning of the hall and so on and some sort of sanitary break. So if no one's against it, then the deal is that the meeting day would be over by 8:00. And now, Mr Nacher, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. So it's gonna be a long three days. We'll be here by 8:00, we've got the deputies at 9:00, and they'll stretch out by midnight, and then I'll be back here by 9:00 on Friday. Well, I didn't really want to perform this time, I must admit, but I must say that what I've just heard for the last half hour is nothing but respect for democracy, or disrespect for democracy and vote, and to show some will. There's a debate going on here, whether it's a secret or a public choice. Well, if it doesn't matter to some colleagues here, then why didn't they make that public choice anytime soon? I mean, there's always been a secret vote about staff here. I'll tell you why: because it was working so far because the "government" were elected. Once the bad guys get elected, you need to put a pitchfork in it. But that's disrespect to the majority. Nobody knows how in that secret choice, who and how he threw that voice. It's a dangerous precedent for me. I was talking to some of you about it off record in the hallway. It's just that the moment we start dealing with the staff here publicly, we're not gonna get out of this, just because it doesn't suit anyone for the moment. Similarly, we have never examined those proposing institutions to the extent that they did now -- well, because it was always designed by the institutions that proposed it, even some that had the policies themselves in their statutory bodies, but because they are on the right side, no one cared. Don't be mad at me. It's a real double standard. I'm sorry, it's a double standard! There should be a secret choice, we respect most of it as it is here. Maybe after October, there'll be another majority, okay, I'll respect it the same way, even if I'm a minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u110	Thank you. Now, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Ferjenčík will prepare for factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u111	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, my colleague, I will respond briefly to Mr Juchelka. Democracy is certainly not the tyranny of the majority. Democracy is something completely different, and because of it, the founders, fathers of the founders of American democracy, have just clearly said that democracy is not the tyranny of the majority. That's the first thing. The second thing is that it is legitimate to use all legal instruments, even legitimate ones, and it is common for them to be used. That's not the first obstruction. And now that you're talking about manipulation, lies and all that, I think it's pointless, but if, first of all, you get your boss straightened out. He's a proven liar, he's screaming that there's thieves sitting here, and he never said them, he never said! who the thieves are. So first, sweep your own doorstep before you insult anybody in this way. I think it's useless. I think my colleague Bartošek said it quite clearly. The point is, there are questions. You think they've worked themselves out, we don't think they've worked themselves out. It is, of course, a matter of conflict of opinion, and it is quite all right. And I don't think there's any need to put that kind of emotion into it after that. I think it's part of this to talk rationally, really use arguments and not attack each other. It's completely unnecessary, I think. I know it's your boss's political style in particular. I respect that, but it's not gonna be me -- don't yell at me here, we're not in Jewish school -- but this is also talking about how it was. That means yes, I was with him in the government, and I don't want to do it anymore, because the experience is absolutely catastrophic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u112	Thank you. Now, Mr Ferjenčík with a point of fact, then Mr Navrkal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to ask, through you, a colleague of Kořánová, to consider a little whether it is appropriate to talk here about cadreing and some pressure. You normally share the results of the vote in this House on your social networks, and there is nothing wrong with that. And now you're saying that the exact same activity is some kind of cadre, something reprehensible. We just say for a long time, three years straight, that it is right for elected representatives of people to vote publicly so that people in the next election can decide whether they are satisfied or dissatisfied with the vote. I'm terribly sorry that this attitude seems incomprehensible or inconsistent to you. We've been saying this for a long time, in all the elections that voted here. We've always voted against a secret election, and we're certainly not afraid to vote publicly, and it's certainly not that there's a party leader standing above us to force us. I think they're different here to kneel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u114	Thank you, and now the Member has Navrkal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u115	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, dear colleagues. I would just like, through the Vice-President, to respond to my colleague Nacher. It would certainly not be unprecedented if we voted publicly here now. Maybe in 2004 The Chamber of Deputies voted publicly for the Czech Radio Council, so it would certainly not be a precedent, let alone a dangerous precedent. On the contrary, as he has already stated in the previous factual remark, we are completely consistent in this and constantly propose that we vote publicly on the electoral committee. In fact, the fact that we're voting secretly here is that the House will then approve the secret election committee vote, which we are constantly fighting against. We are perfectly consistent, as my colleague Ferjenčík said here. And I'm really sorry that my colleague Bláha is imagining democracy by voting here as he pleases, and he's not going to be responsible for it for his constituents. It's not supposed to work that way in my democracy, but I'd like to repeat what's been said here many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u116	Thank you. Now, Mr Juchelka, with a point of fact, then Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u117	Thank you very much again, Mr President. I will comment on Mr Bělobrádek, through Mr President. So we're going to vote for a public election here, and for Mr. Bělobrádek, it's the tyranny of the majority! Well, congratulations, Mr. Bělobrádek. Then we will publicly address individual councillors, and those who, of course, do not have the right opinions as Mr Bělobrádek has - maybe they will have opinions that are closer to someone else - and in some way they will create the control body, so it will be the tyranny of the majority for him. So, in fact, in the overwhelming majority of votes - and I am not talking about public or secret elections, I am talking about a free vote, where we democratically speak about what is to be given, whether it be the law, the election to the Supervisory Board, whatever the choice is to any media council, and for me it is always the expression of the citizens of the Czech Republic who elected me here, and it is not the tyranny of the majority. I absolutely refuse to do that. I still haven't learned the specific names and names of the civil society that bothers you. And what's starting to bother me, too, is that it is de facto preventing your obstruction from public control of institutions, such as the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, where we will not allow anyone, or the State Wine Fund, where we will not allow anyone, just because you are building so that public institutions cannot be controlled by citizens of the Czech Republic through Parliament. That's all. And the distrust that you have in the Czech Television employee, where every editor has its autonomy - you don't understand how it works at all - you constantly label those who have a different opinion that they want to destroy and destroy - is really white.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u118	Thank you. Now, Mr Dolínek, then Mr Stanjura, factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u119	Thank you. As a representative of social democracy on the electoral committee, I would like to say - and my colleagues and colleagues will give me the truth - that I have often supported a public choice, and colleagues of the pirát know this well. As a representative of social democracy, I have distinguished it from two different groups of elections, and for many of them I have always supported the public election here because, where it is impossible to find who nominated him here, the candidate here in the House, when it is anonymous - not anonymous, but nominations outside subjects in the House, so I said, let's vote publicly. And where it's partial, let's vote secretly, because we know who's going to the market here with the skin. And I respect what my colleague Bláha says. I also want to make secret choices sometimes, I want to make decisions, I don't always have it easy, I want to have my peace of mind. I respect that, but I said, when it's from the outside of the nomination, it's one thing when it's internal, it's another thing. But a colleague of Juchelka's has brought me to a point here. It sounded like we were decomposeing all the state's control bodies here. So, please, we're voting for one of the deputies at the RRTV after most of the guys here made a deal and voted out a package last time. We're voting for a deputy for the Wine Fund. And I think we're all aware that no body is blocking this House. All these organs have enough action to work. But let's face it here, what's blocking - and that's across the House - is discussing all the messages these authorities are giving us. This House claimed dozens of reports per year for control, we are piling up, it is over 50 points and three years ago we have not been able to discuss it, whether it be media reports, whether it be the management of various organizations, whether it be also a business report in this country. We haven't been able to do it, and it's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u120	Thank you. At this point, we have nine factual points. First Mr Stanjura, then Mr Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u121	I would follow up on Mr Dolínek. It is a disgrace to the Social Democrats and the ANO movement. You're in the government, and you're crying that you haven't put a point on your agenda. We'd like to support him. But the debate just slipped somewhere else. You don't even talk about the nature of the thing. The point is, most people want everything. He wants to win 10:0. And now we have a substitute debate about whether it's going to be 10:0 secretly or publicly. It's a backup debate. Just so we're clear, we're gonna support a secret choice. The secret choice is value and principle for us, and if something is value and principle for you, then you have to keep it at the moment when it is not popular, when you do not get applause for it, you will not get applause, otherwise it would not be the value you are worth. So much for the debate. But the debate is completely different. Why do you want to win 10:0? Why do you want everything? It's not reasonable. We repeatedly called for a debate. I will not say the information from the internal negotiations that I have conducted, however, when I simplify it without quoting anyone: a direct question. Are you interested in making a deal? The answer was no, we have a majority, hello. That's why we won't be able to make the choice for that long. Because there's no other way to point out that the winner wants everything. And he doesn't have everything, but he wants everything instead of making a reasonable deal. There were certainly enough good candidates in that set of candidates who could have had a consensus across the government's opposition parties. But you said, "No, we have enough, we want everything." And that's the problem, not the way the election's gonna be. So admit it. You want everything, we don't like it, we'll do everything we can to keep you from getting everything. You'll probably get it, but it'll catch up with you eventually. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] It's not reasonable at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u122	Thank you. Mr Jurečka now, then Mrs Kořanová. Mr. Jurečka. He's not... sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u123	Thank you. Yes, I will, because some are here for the first time in this period, some are here for the second time as I am. There are memorials, presidents, both present and former. My colleague, Faltýnek, Roman Sklenák. They remember that when we were in the coalition, there we were able to sit down with the opposition and find a solution and an agreement so that we could communicate with the opposition so that it didn't end 10: 0. That's what this House, now behind this coalition with the support of the SPD, isn't. There is no dialogue, there is no debate, there is no effort to seek the will and to ask why those candidates, whether they are nominated by political parties to some councils or NGOs, why, if any, who wants to support and who they do not want. And here my colleague was talking about how important it is here in terms of principle, democracy and freedom. But a colleague mentioned it a few times before in his speech. I'm going to put a beautiful analogy here. Democracy is when two wolves and one lamb vote for dinner. Freedom is that a well-armed lamb does not want to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u124	Thank you. Now, Mrs Kořanová and Mr Bláha will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u125	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Stanjura, with a reasonable understanding, has really amused me, but I can't do it. I'm sorry about my colleague Ferjenčík. Learn - three and a half years you should have said my last name. You were bothered by the maniac, too, and I'm offended by the fact that you keep calling me Kořánová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u126	Thank you. Now, Mr. Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u127	Colleagues, colleagues. I would like to assure everyone here who says that I need peace in a secret choice: I do not need peace in any way. I want to know the truth, and I want the party lines of the parties to be demolished, so that it is not clear who voted. Because you don't let the MPs vote secretly, you have control over them, and you determine exactly who will vote, whereas you don't get a chance to figure out who voted in secret. And that's freedom. And that's just the way it is. Believe it - I've said it several times. I don't have a problem with saying who I'm voting for. I went around before today to people I trust, who I think know something about Czech TV, and I wrote these names to myself: Kravka, Černý, Žádník. I don't have a problem with that. But I have a problem with the fact that you just won't let your colleagues vote freely and watch how they voted. And woe if you move! I've been there, you haven't. I've been through this with the Communists, and people have been fired for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u128	Thank you. Now, Mr Feranec, Mr Bělobrádek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate was here, actually, the keywords: we must prevent the politicisation of Czech television. Since 6:00 p.m. I hear nothing else: just another and more politicization of Czech TV, you want to destroy it and so on. And do you know what the peak of Czech TV's politics is? When you say, let's postpone the election after the next election! Then there'll be better politicians, others, then we'll make the right choice. That's not gonna be political? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u130	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek now, Mr Koten will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u131	Thank you. To a clear question, a clear answer. No, if you vote, it's not the tyranny of the majority. The tyranny of the majority means that the minorities are not respected and ignored, because that is the problem of democracy. I think my colleague here knows it well, but I will repeat it again: democracy is not the tyranny of the majority and it must also respect the minority. And why we are here and now in this situation: I think my colleague Stanjura has explained this correctly. When you fight someone, if you don't respect a minority, that minority fights back, it's legitimate, and no one can be surprised. When you're in that situation, when you're not the ones who can roll, who are politicians here, because they expect the news of Czech television not to be approved and then the whole thing goes away, that's your work, so don't be surprised that's what happens. I think this discussion is valuable. Let the citizens hear what the views are, how you imagine democracy, what you really think of it, what the content of this word is to you. I think it's pretty obvious, and it's just a good thing to reveal that democracy is just that if I have a majority, I'm gonna beat the rest of them no matter what. I think that even that minority has the right to speak up and the right to take advantage of all the options it has is okay. There's nothing weird about that. Like most of them, they use all their possibilities that they may not want to approve the annual reports of Czech Television because they have some interest, which is quite clear - and we do not like it, so we do something else. After all, it is also a clear tactic not to approve the annual reports. I mean, it's obvious why it didn't get here, because if you wanted it, it was approved long ago, it was discussed because you just have most of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u132	Thank you. Mr Koten, Mr Juchelka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u133	Good late evening, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long, just as I have been listening to this debate since 18:00, so I am beginning to doubt that we are in the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and it almost reminds me here from this side that we are perhaps in the Parliament of North Korea according to the contributions that are taking place here. The constant lynch of the existing members of the Radio and Television Council and of course the unwillingness to vote for other members of the ČT Council, so I'm just curious about how this is going to turn out, but I'd really like it if we really went back to some sort of thing here, and we didn't really slap empty straw here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u134	Thank you. Mr Juchelka, Mr Černohorský will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am also in favour of voting immediately, but it will not give me this and I will just follow up on Mr Dolínek, who here was very right about the individual reports and so on. Of course, I will mention a little bit of the only fact to Mr Bělobrádek, through you, because on the Gremia I think two or three weeks ago, a discussion of the Czech Television Council's reports was approved, and it was a consensus. I remember. The only guy who was here was a TOP 09 MP, Jan Jakob. No one understood it at all here in this room, no one understood it in plenary, I also asked President Petr Fiala of the ODS, who also did not know what was going on, but Jan Jakob spent half an hour here, just to avoid discussing and voting the Czech Television reports, which can be confirmed by all club presidents that such an agreement on the smooth passing of the reports was on the Grémium. So this is a fact and obsessed with those reports: of course, the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u136	I can confirm that the Grémium deal was. Now, Mr Černohorský, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u137	Thank you for the floor. I can see the emotions are pretty effervescent here, we've had a long day. At this point, I'd like to ask for a two-hour break on behalf of the Pirati MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u138	Thank you. I would like to interrupt at this point, but I see Mr Chvojka reporting with priority rights. I suppose he wants to add something to that proposal, or I wouldn't give him the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u139	No, I don't really care about the proposal, but we'd also like to take a two-hour break that could possibly follow up on the first two-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u140	Two hours? Okay. If we now have 20.35, that would be - Mr. Válek for TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u141	Thank you, Mr President. We, too, would like to take a two-hour break to follow Mr. -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u142	Ambassador, I'm going to ask for some peace in the room so we can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u143	- to follow up on the two-hour pause of Chvojka's colleague. I would like to thank the ANO Members for a round of applause that is considerably greater than theirs, and I see that you can appreciate quality. Too bad he's not in your ranks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u144	Thank you. I'd like a more conciliatory tone on the microphone. President of the House, then I saw President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u145	I'm not going to prolong it, I just wanted to ask: we met at the beginning of the parliamentary term, I even prepared a memorandum that there are nine parliamentary clubs, and gentlemen agreed that there will always be a maximum of an hour's breaks. It fell. It's gone down. SPD's been taking two hours. I'd just like to hear from the club presidents when and who canceled the deal, because the deal really existed, it was a so-called gentleman's agreement, and I never really knew when it went down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u146	I believe that the proposal has actually fallen, I do not know how much it was accepted, that is the question of the club presidents. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u147	I'll answer for myself. I didn't make the gentleman's deal, and I refused to sign the memorandum. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u148	Okay, thank you. I believe the President of the Rakušan has applied. Now I don't know the order, because I saw President Bartošek reporting, then I felt that the President of the House would like to respond, so now President Rakušan. Okay. I'm sorry, Chairman Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u149	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask for a break at the two-hour club meeting, which follows up on my previous speaker, who was Chairman of the TOP 09 MP Vlastimil Válek. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u150	We're at eight o'clock. Now, Prime Minister Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u151	Thank you. Coming here in the morning doesn't make any sense, which means we'll also pick up a two-hour break for a club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u152	Two hours. Well, I've got ten hours at the moment. Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u153	Thank you for the floor. In order not to repeat my previous speakers and be accused of being a plagiarizer and using the same words, I would like to take a break at our club's meeting for one hour twenty-two minutes, so that it will continue smoothly to follow the break that ends after the interval chosen by my previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u154	Well, we're at 11 o'clock and 22 minutes, unless anyone else wants a break. Unless no one else wants to. [[Noise in the hall.]] I don't know exactly what it's going to be, 'cause I can't count fast, but I'm assuming it's going to work. If you yell at me, it won't be faster. It'll come out in eight hours. I understand the gentlemen of the House that they are applying, but they are not equipped with a priority right. I'm just admitting a response to the procedural proposal. If they want to respond to the procedural proposal, it is Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u155	Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond. I may be able to respond to a procedural proposal, even if I do not have the right of priority. I'm here for the first term, for me it's a new-- club break during the night, so in terms of transparency: I'll be here by now, I'd like to see some club if you'll invite me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u156	Thank you. That is, of course, a question for the presidents of the various clubs. Mr Juchelka wanted to respond in a procedural manner. Yes, he checked in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u157	Just the last sentence that the coalition lamb got into the clutches of the opposition tyrant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u158	That was such a nice poetic dot. Given all the agreements and so on, I believe that I have no choice but to say that the meeting would be adjourned. Because we have three special meetings scheduled for tomorrow, and we couldn't continue at nine o'clock, so now I'm interrupting 104. meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday 28 May, when we will continue the third reading block. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., the 105th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin, 10 minutes after its completion, we will continue the suspended 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. After the end of this meeting, we would then continue in the 102st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will only be formally concluded. Mr Ferjenčík wants to respond to something else. Ambassador, I really don't know why I should give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u159	I just wanted to apologize to my colleague Kořanová for composing her name. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-011-395.u160	Okay, I understand that very well. I, my colleagues, wish you a pleasant rest of the evening, so I will meet you tomorrow and this meeting will continue on Friday. For the record, I note that Mr Ferjenčík, Filip, Dolínek, Válek, Juchelka and Mr Válek and Mr Černohorský's applications have been registered, but I do not know if they will still insist on them at the moment, and then Mr Jurečka after the debate has been exhausted. That should be all. So I formally interrupt this point and this meeting in line with what I have said before. Have a good night, everyone.
