ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u1	329. Proposal for the adoption of the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali governing the status of "Takuba' forces, agreed by the exchange of letters signed in Bamaku on 6 March 2020 and in Koulouba on 10 March 2020, to the Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali governing the status of "Serval' forces, agreed by the exchange of letters signed in Bamaku on 7 March 2013 and in Koulouba on 8 March 2013 /Sněmnímní pístoj 915/ - 2nd reading Under the authority of the government, the words will now be taken by Minister Benešová. I'm gonna ask for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'm just reminding you that I'm subpoenaing a colleague of Metnar, who is unfortunately sick. I submit to you for your consent - for him therefore - the material regarding the adoption of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the governments of France and Mali, the purpose of which is to regulate the legal status of members of the Army of the Czech Republic, who are to be sent to Mali under the multinational forces of Takub for the purpose of combating terrorism. The material is related to sending our soldiers to Mali and also to Niger and Chad within the Takub forces, which have already been approved by both chambers of Parliament. The contribution to the forces of Takub with a strength of 60 soldiers is already impatiently expected by the partner states. However, one important condition must be met before sending soldiers to Mali, which is to ensure their proper legal status in that country. This legal status will be ensured by an additional protocol which guarantees the criminal immunity of our soldiers in carrying out tasks within the Takub forces in Mali. From the other rights contained in the Additional Protocol, I can mention, for example, the right to enter Mali without visas, the right to free movement in the territory of Mali without escort and the right to hold and carry a gun to carry out duties. Thank you for your attention and please support this submitted material for Minister Metnar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Monika Červíčková, to justify the committee resolution delivered to you as House Press 915/1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Foreign Committee resolution adopted on 18 November 2020 on this House of Press, which is under number 915. After the explanation of Deputy Minister of Defence Jan Havránek, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Povejšil, Member of Monika Červíčková's intelligence report and after the debate by the Foreign Committee I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent to the adoption of the Additional Protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali governing the status of non-French forces of Takuba, agreed by the exchange of letters signed in Bamak on 6 March 2020 and in Koulouba on 10 March 2020, The Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali governing the status of Serval forces, agreed by the exchange of letters signed in Bamaku on 7 March 2013 and in Koulouba on 8 March 2013.'; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u5	Thank you, Madame. I am opening the debate in which Mr Jaroslav Holík is joined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u6	Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Let me start by saying that our SPD MP refuses to support this amendment. This is an amendment between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mali. It is an amendment that regulates the status of non-French countries. Now I'm gonna tell you why I don't want it. I lined it up by 4:00. It is supposed to be a combat mission, and not a training mission, which is in connection with the presence of Czech-Slovak soldiers in the territory of the Republic of Mali, a condition which is in direct conflict with the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic. You might be surprised when the secretary said the government recommended it. But the government is also the Ministry of Defense. If we have the Department of Defense, our soldiers should be here defending our country. Secondly, Takuba's operations are not only to be restricted to Mali, but also to be in Niger and partly in Chad. To this step, the presence of Czech armed forces in the territory of these states has not given us legitimate permission by governments. Our presence could be in direct conflict with international law and the principles of diplomacy. Thirdly, Takub's legal mandate is very controversial because it is only a bilateral treaty between France and Mali and does not have UN approval. Fourth, the soldiers of the Czech army would in this case become a sort of expeditionary corps of the French army under French command, and it is not in the Czech national interest that the soldiers of the Czech army die in Africa for French interests. For these very reasons, most European countries do not show interest in participating in Takuba. For this reason, neither should we.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Černochová is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, as chairman of the Defence Committee, have discussed this press. In fact, I was also a rapporteur when our Chamber of Deputies, and therefore both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, broadcast our troops on this mission. That posting completely lege artis passed through this Chamber of Deputies, passed through the Senate, so all the legal contexts were completely fulfilled. And it was precisely our defence committee that demanded that before we decide on this mission as a defence committee, we had all those documents that the Minister of Justice spoke of. [[15.00 hours]] These documents were delivered to us in full compliance with international law, so our committee could also refer this mission here to the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security decided to broadcast our troops even before it was the Chamber of Deputies. We were really waiting for all the documents to run out. So I would like to assure my colleagues in the SPD that there really is no violation of international law. It's in accordance with international law. I would like to say, through Mr President, to the honourable Member, that they are not Czech-Slovak soldiers, that they are Czech soldiers, specifically members of the 601. group, and the mission is not combative, because every member of the Defence Committee will tell you that today this division of missions is not combatary, peaceful, training. From each mission in the finals, even the most peaceful, the mission may, under some circumstances, become a combat mission, so this breakdown that you mentioned here has not been used by the military at all, my colleague, through the President. It is indeed a mission where I suppose it is in the interest of your party, at least that's what you had in the electoral program that you are fighting against migration waves, and if we do not really try to help these countries within the Western community, it can end badly. I'm sure you've also noticed from the foreign press that the situation in the Sahel is getting worse as such, and this is one of the ways of not letting any bloodshed occur there, some even greater economic downturns and so on. So I wanted to get off because the Minister isn't here to tell you. I don't want to bother the Minister of Justice here, it's not her agenda. I just wanted to explain to you how and in very detailed detail this mission was dealt with by the Defence Committee and that it was actually both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that have already approved this mission, so these agreements, although it is a legal act, are actually formal documents. We have been waiting for these contracts to be signed from the other parties, so that after they are signed, we can present this to the Parliament of the Czech Republic with a clear conscience. So you can relax, there's no violation of international law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-018-329.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? I don't see anyone in the hall. I'm done with the debate. Apparently, there's no interest in the final word. Madam Secretary here is just a temp for Minister Metnar. Then we shall proceed to the vote on the resolution tabled. I'm gonna ring the bell again to alert my colleagues, but I think there's enough of us. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposed resolution? Who's against it? In the vote, order number 211, 85 Members registered, for 68, against 13. The motion was accepted. I thank you and conclude with the consideration that the motion for a resolution has been agreed. I'm opening another fixed point, which is
