ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on the solution of the Coronavirus COVID-19 in the Czech Republic /Department document 8832/ A group of 43 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up this committee of inquiry. At the same time, this group prepared a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of the House document 8832. I will ask Mr Jakub Michálek to take the floor for a group of plaintiffs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for allowing this meeting to take place so that we can look back and, in particular, look into the future, so that we do not repeat some of the mistakes that have been repeated in the past and take the necessary measures. The group of Members who convened this meeting shall present a motion for a resolution on: ' shall be established in accordance with Article 31 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Constitution of the Czech Republic investigating commission on state progress in solving the pandemic of coronavirus COVID-19 in the Czech Republic; [[I.]] II. is ordered by the investigating committee on state progress in solving the pandemic COVID-19 in the Czech Republic A. examine the following problematic areas in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic, which had a record number of victims worldwide: the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material, procedures for the adoption of anti-epidemiological measures by the Government of the Czech Republic, including a high number of decisions that have been repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court as illegal, the causes of the record school closure period, procedures for taking measures to assist the economic sector, including support programmes; ensuring awareness of the population and combating public health-threatening misinformation.'; There are therefore two main areas on which I think the Commission should focus, to determine the causes of a record difference compared to the European average in the number of victims of COVID-19 to 10 million inhabitants and, secondly, the issue of procurement, where the commission of inquiry can be based on what the Supreme Audit Office has analysed. [[9.10 hours]] From among the coalition, including the tolerance party KSČM, it was said that it was necessary to wait for the Supreme Audit Office to come up with its conclusions. The conclusions are now on the table, and I think it would be desirable for the Chamber of Deputies to approve recommendations on their basis in the report of the Commission of Investigation so that we take swift steps, so that, especially now in autumn, the situation from last year will not be repeated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I will ask the appellant to follow with me from the rapporteur's table all the debate that I am opening with this, and I ask who is reporting to the debate on this point. Member Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u4	So hello, ladies and gentlemen. Under normal circumstances, I would only positively acknowledge the emergence of a parliamentary committee of inquiry if this committee had not emerged a few months before the elections and it would not have been clear that it would only be a collaborator of political performances for the public. I think that the investigative commission of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which will not investigate the opposition's share in this part, such a pseudo-position on what has happened here in the last year and a half, is an investigation committee that will deliberately be blind and deaf. Let us remember that there is a movement of YES and ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, that's okay. However, we have such rules of procedure, and we have such open rules that when you are a member of a member of a parliamentary club who is determined in some way to thwart government activity and government negotiations, you have in your hands such a huge weapon that you can take a 12-hour break, to each member who is gifted with priority rights, you can write a half-hour text that will concern the problem, he can read it here, even if I don't want to insult colleagues from the so-called democratic opposition, because we know what his club leaders and party chairmen are capable of. [[His phone's ringing.]] I'm sorry, my mom's calling me. [[He's answering his phone.]] I'll see you in a bit, Mom. Bye. So please, it's that these pseudo-positions would want to blame all the blame for the 30,000 murdered on the government. I agree with you that the government is responsible for the 30,000 deaths and that they were murdered, yes. However, if you didn't want these people murdered, they'd be alive today. But it worked for you, too, because you follow the motto "worse, the better." Yes, there is a covid mafia that stole hundreds of billions, and certainly reports from all the authorities will provide us with clues to where the money flowed, but you left them there, extending the period of suffering of the Czech, Moravian and Silesian nation and all citizens of the Czech Republic of any nationality, gender and political orientation, because it suited you. It suits you that these people are suffering. Because the moment you don't want something to be discussed in this House, it's just not going to be discussed. You take 12 hours off, send 15 people here with priority rights, they can talk here after half an hour and it's the end of the day. And let's remember how the emergency conditions were prolonged here. Let's tell people, because we in the Free Bloc are trying to educate people politically, trying to present them with a legislative process at least at the level that I can handle with one six thousandths of the intelligence of a red dwarf. With the same idea of how the ordinary citizen could handle the Rules of Procedure, we explain the various elements of the Rules of Procedure. But unfortunately, we're running into this piercing and marketing law that you're using so badly against your own voters, and that's that a common average citizen has a three-month political memory. He just doesn't remember what happened four months ago, and unfortunately, most people -- just like Gaussův's curve -- have even a much shorter political memory. So people don't remember what was a month ago, who said what. They just feel that they remember it, in fact, they often assign individual statements to different personalities in error and error. They think that some parties hold some opinions that do not actually stand up for them. Well, here's this committee of inquiry, if it doesn't touch your activity, it's going to be blind and deaf, as I said, because here came the government, a minority government represented by YES and ČSSD, and demanded the introduction of an emergency situation, confirmation of an extension. Well, we all, at the beginning of the covid crisis, had no information, no idea which enemy we were up against, made the introduction of an emergency state possible and extended at the beginning. I think it was the logical and rational behaviour of people who were opposed to a new, unknown enemy, who was only known to those who genetically produced it, probably in chan- China, and probably to those who deliberately launched it in order to trigger a global media pandemic. The fact that COVID-19 is a genetically engineered virus is no longer a conspiracy theory, it's an official investigation version of the American authorities that only tries to investigate whether the virus escaped from Chinese chan by accident or by accident. So please don't stone me here for spreading conspiracy theories because I'm spreading the official investigation version of the American authorities, which should be appreciated especially by the Americans here, through the President, such as the ODS or the TOP 09. So the government came and asked again for an extension of the emergency situation at a time when he was here at a press conference where he was invited by the Free Block, Professor Beran and announced that there was an effective treatment against COVID-19, that the treatment has a business name in the Czech Republic Isoprinosine, but otherwise it is inosine pranobex, I suspect, an active substance that is part of hundreds of different medications because of this substance - Thank you. [[He's shutting down because there's a lot of noise in the room.]] The license has expired on this substance, so it is generic and available for free. The government, although it had this information at its disposal, has had the course of a study that was to be carried out throughout the Republic and which could have already answered the question of whether inosine pranobex or Isoprinosine are effective medicines for COVID-19 infection. The government rejected this, calling the bearer of this information a spreader of disinformation. profesor MUDr Jiří Beran, CSc, our scientist and doctor, who is the most quoted doctor and scientist in foreign scientific journals - no one below his citations - called a disinformer, a liar and almost labeled him a Russian agent. Even this person instead of taking him as a partner and trying to verify his information in a scientific way in practice - in a time of crisis, when instead of scientifically verifying safe drugs, we force people for sneakers that are dangerous and unproven infusions - to degenerate this person professionally. [[9.20 hours]] Others came - this should also be part of the work of the commission of inquiry, a list of doctors who were professionally, humanly, medialy, dehonested and insulted, even though they were right. Like, I think that this House, and especially the pirát, who were supplying me with some fecal information, owes me an apology to Dr. Peková. First of all, she invented tests that were cheaper than the covid mafia tests, and that's why the covid mafia immediately... - Oh, there's still the pen! It's not my pen, if you want it, take it. - They avenged Mrs Peková by turning state authorities on her and trying to find some irregularities in her business. Of course, it has nothing to do with her activity at all, that she came up with tests that are faster and cheaper than they had prepared in advance by those who were informed that there would be a pandemic wave and that it would be worth opening up a division to enable people to test themselves, and it would be worth opening up a division to buy respirators for 777 crowns and so on. And here, lady, the heroine of our time, who couldn't get anything at all, has an established practice, is an extremely successful person, an extremely intelligent, winner of the Czech Menza Award, I don't think in 2020 or 2019 - I don't remember exactly, I'm just a simple gym teacher - so this woman whose intelligence touches the sky and is smarter than anybody! a member of this House and the Senate, probably today as well as the President's team, so this woman was dehonested because she had the courage to say that the virus, according to her professional expert opinion, is a professional virologist, a member of Menza, the winner of the Menza Prize, is of artificial origin. And this House hasn't stood up for her once. She's still been charged with being infected with covideo by our old-fashioned health minister here. Her fate is a screaming display of what's happening. But globally, the mob is global. But what do those global mob agents in the Czech Republic do when they want to punish someone who stands in the way of their plans to make hundreds of billions on tests, on protective aids, on various measures and in the finals for vaccination? This mob is lying about you. And when months later it turns out that you were right, and your investigative version becomes an official investigative version of the U.S. authorities, they're not talking about it. So this should also be an integral part of the COVID-19 commission's work. And that means that if we don't investigate the origin of the virus, that committee is really useless, it's just gonna be for a little while in the election fight. We in the Free Block will raise our hand for the commission either, because I assume that some of the materials that will be released by the commission will be interesting, juicy and nutritious, when the mafia represented by the neo-fascists will want to defeat the mafia represented by another globalization wing, and they will point a finger at each other, like last time, through the President, Professor Válek showed the government with a finger that he allowed vaccination or infusion of an experimental solution to hundreds of thousands of people who were not informed that they were receiving donated pseudovaccines, which may have stood somewhere in Israel in direct sunlight for 14 days, and then aired them to us, and that they were not entitled to compensation. But as part of the internal political struggle TOP 09 against YES, the information has not been denied, no one has embarked on Professor Válek to spread disinformation and lies, neither directly those who can, nor through the President. So obviously, Professor Válek here was right about me. This government intoxicated hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic without their knowledge, without informed consent by infusions of mRNA, whose quality could not be guaranteed because they were not in the hands of the Czech government. The Czech Government could not guarantee the technological chain that the infusions would be stored properly in accordance with the production and technological process. And they silently withheld hundreds of thousands of people who stabbed you in the IV, or maybe you'll come to her tomorrow in exchange for sneakers, hiding that in case of medical complications, you won't get a crown of compensation. And that's a crime in itself, which should also be the subject of the commission of inquiry, but he won't. He won't, because the opposition, as we will know, has been in this scam from the very beginning with the government. When information came out that there was an effective treatment and that there was not only one treatment, it began to be discussed and experts started to associate with it, because they could not watch people murder in the Czech Republic, and they joined in a petition to the Health Forum and associated in a petition An open letter of doctors to the government, Parliament and politicians of the Czech Republic, so they were not treated again and were re-enforced by the corporate and public media, which was supposed to drown them in censorship with silence, which was successful because these petitions were initially supported by a lot of people, but then they stopped talking about them. They have disappeared from our political space and have repeatedly refused to listen to these experts. So I assume that, within the framework of the committee of inquiry, which the Democratic bloc wants to set up here, the exact vote of the person who voted against the fact that experts who are more educated in the field of virology and immunology who are more intelligent than we are in order to come here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies will publicly represent their expert and professional views. So I hope that the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry will include Members who have repeatedly rejected this, because this will be mentioned in the report of the non-voting committee of inquiry. What was the next step? The government came and wanted to extend the emergency by a month. A terrible battle broke out because the opposition didn't want a month, she wanted 14 days. 14 days was approved with KSČM support. In 14 days the government came and asked for another 14 days, or asked for another month. The opposition again that the moon does not want, but 14 days that it takes. And this is how it was repeated seven times here until Lubomír Volný on his Facebook page, which at that time had a million daily reach, warned KSČM voters that if there was no semi-secret support of the KSČM, so that there would be no more emergency conditions, because the Chamber of Deputies would simply not confirm them. During the whole period, at least two obstructions have already taken place to elect the ČT Council by the so-called democratic opposition, which, aware that at any time it can thwart any parliamentary meeting, because there is a huge opposition, there are only two government clubs. One of those ways, depending on how much it fits, and then there's six opposition clubs. That's incredible power. Six opposition clubs, when agreed, the government of Andrej Babiš will never approve of anything. And that should be said to your constituents in the election campaign, too, because without agreements between the government and the opposition, this House would not have passed any law at all. Let's do it again. There are seven opposition clubs. Seven times two is 14, that's 14 hours of break if you can prove once that you take 12 hours, completely calm. Now, for the last time, I'm guessing it was 10. Seven Presidents, seven Vice-Presidents. I'd say together you'll have... a moment... 7, 14, 28, well, 28 priority rights for sure. [[He's calculating in half.]] It's not even half an hour to one, and the day of the hearing is over. And that doesn't even approve the program. You can start Tuesday at 9 o'clock and end on Sunday, or as it would end, Monday at 8 o'clock about. That's how it would end. And that's how you could talk here, take 14 hours of breaks every day, and the government you're always pointing at, she's guilty, she's guilty, she wouldn't approve anything here. [[9.30 hours]] Well, you guys are just as guilty. Every law that has passed this House and is contrary to your electoral programs, you have betrayed your constituents. And now you want to hide the betrayal by creating some investigative committee where you argue with each other, throwing mud at each other, and in the finals, you agree on some version that will be acceptable to each of you, because marketing is gonna take out every piece of information that you can use, and then you're gonna sell it to your constituents. And we'll come back again. Lubomír Volný on his Facebook page, which at that time, I repeat, had a million-a-day reach, warned the KSČM voters that they were the ones who directly supported that I was voting "yes" for those emergency states, that they were simply co-responsible directly for those emergency situations, and KSČM voters showed this to their Members by a massive e-mail campaign. Members of the KSČM realized that they were losing 20 percent of their 100 percent of the voters standing between them and the presence in the House, and they took the right decision not only politically but also humanly, and refused to extend the emergency situation. That should also be the case in the report of the commission of inquiry, and it should also be described how this happened. And what didn't happen? And that is what needs to be said to these people, and it should also be in the report of the commission of inquiry: there has been an illegal emergency, which has been illegally requested by party captains - Mothers must be informed, because otherwise it would be cruel. [[The phone's ringing, the speaker's waiting.]] So the party captains who officially performed in the House against the emergency -- I only have one pen left. [[With laughter.]] It's a drill. It's still not reinforced. Thank you. - So the leaders of those parties that had to be in the House, those parties like the ODS, the TOP 09 had to raise their hand to end the emergency situation, because they lied to their constituents all the time, so the authorities of these parties illegally declared another emergency situation in cooperation with the government and again forced the Police of the Czech Republic, men and women in uniforms to illegally terrorize the citizens of the Czech Republic in order to kneel for them to illegally demand documents from them, illegally harassing them. And it was those in the House who claimed they were against an emergency. I'm sure that should be in the report, too. Double-like ODS policy, double-like TOP 09 policy, something else I say in the House, something else I do for real, but it's the government's fault. It is! The biggest blame lies with the government, but you're accomplices, so please put it in the report. And then what happened? Then it followed that you adopted the most dangerous law in the history of this republic, you adopted the so-called pandemic law, and you adopted it in 4 hours and 37 minutes. I really don't know how many minutes or hours you've consulted on the night before, who's going to have what and where the hundreds of billions that can be stolen by that law will go, which should be discussed again in that report of yours, how the law allows you to circumvent normal business conditions, how it allows you to just steal. And on the basis of this law, we are living in restrictions on our civil rights and freedoms to this day. And again, yes, it's a government that needs to be pointed at with a finger. It's mostly her crime, and you're signed under it. If the pirates, ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN, and I don't know who's sitting there anymore, didn't want him to rule this country or to apply a pandemic law in this country that still forces citizens to do things they don't want to do and can be used as a basis for stealing elections, that law wouldn't apply. If you were a real opposition, there haven't been any emergencies since the summer of last year, no precautions, and there'd be 15,000 fewer deaths. We would at least get to the level of Sweden. Wow, professors! We would at least get to the level of Sweden, and this comparison should also be part of your investigation committee's report. Sweden has fewer than half of the victims than the Czech Republic. There weren't any schools closed down there for one day. She didn't pay for a drape for a single day. The districts weren't closed for one day. The only thing that was the same compared to the Czech Republic was the media massage of citizens about the spread of a dangerous disease. And the 15,000 or 14,000 victims died from this media massage. Then we have Finland, a country where I suspect for 14 days or 3 weeks children had flu holidays, which is quite common, no one would object to that even in the Czech Republic, they had about 14 days or a month, I don't know exactly, restricted travel between districts where outbreaks of the disease were, so not across the board, but simply, and in this country with 5 million inhabitants it is hard to believe about 600 covid victims. And I hope that the commission, whoever will be represented in it, will discuss the reasons why we, who went through the hardest lockdowns, the hardest restrictions, put the children in our homes, put the adults in our homes, put our seniors in prison, put our seniors in prison, turned the seniors' homes into the lowest crime rate, but those inmates were in prison, they had limited personal and human rights, they couldn't get out, and no one could go behind them. Our seniors, whom we were supposed to protect by providing them with vitamins, providing them with minerals, and building up their immunity, which is also being built by being in a good mood - I know you don't know much about it, Mr Michálek, through the President, but stress is the biggest immunosuppressant that exists, no, depression, immunodepressant that exists. Stress lowers your ability to defend yourself against an attack by some kind of germ of disease by 99 percent, so these ridicules are - I understand that you're a lawyer, that you don't understand. So we stressed out our seniors and arrested them, and they started killing us mass, which is understandable. And all this information, if it's not discussed in that report from your commission of inquiry, they're just gonna sign what I'm saying that this committee is only being created for political reasons, just so you're pointing your finger at each other for three months now, then they're gonna agree on some kind of text that you're gonna keep marketing what's useful to you, and you're gonna use it against each other as part of the election campaign. So this committee of inquiry is a voter fraud. What followed in the situation? There was a politically motivated release. We all know that, too. It's just loosening up because of the regional elections. The release followed the closure again and followed the increase in cases. This should also be analyzed. Then further dislodgement was followed, motivated by the business of some members of the government, perhaps even the Prime Minister, because the dislodgement was aimed at spending the remnants of their money, and artificial conditions were created to benefit large corporate companies. This should also be part of the Commission's work to assess what had a better impact on the economy, whether the closure of small establishments, like we did in our country, and support, artificial, unnatural support for the clustering of people in corporate businesses, or the exact opposite price that Poland issued, that is, ban on large stores and support for domestic small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[9.40 hours]] It's already clear that your investigation committee can't handle any of this in three months. He can't. You can't do these analyses, you didn't plan them, you don't want to do them, because those analyses would go against your official political positions, they would show that the more measures, the more dead, and they would go out of your arms, or you don't have any guns, it's more like you couldn't use the committee to challenge each other and use the Chamber of Deputies' space to run your own election campaign. I'll go back to the treatment that hasn't been performed. And if this is not a very extensive chapter to which you invite experts from all over the spectrum within the investigative commission, that is, from the sworn defender of early treatment with known and cheap drugs to the redhead cat, who has not been educated in the field and has been spreading alarm reports about hundreds of thousands of dead people, freezers, anything, and you will not hear them within your commission, then again you cannot issue any relevant report. You won't. And that's a process you won't be able to do in three months, because you have to not only listen to these people in this committee meeting, but you have to confront them and you need to study tons and tons, not that someone will bring them to you, but to study tons and tons and tons of materials that are in conflict, materials that are written privately by doctors without any subsidy, and on the other hand, materials that are produced by traitors of science for the money of pharmaceutical companies. And you'd have to dig through it and you'd have to... [[The ANO Members in the benches in front of the pitch are talking, laughing and interrupting.]] If I had chalk here, I'd throw it at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u5	Mr. Colleague, I'll arrange my own order, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u6	Then I'll ask you to be proactive in this. Thank you. So you don't have a chance to find out in three months. You don't. The OKD investigation committee needed a pirate's excellent boss to get out of its business, I must admit, it was just apolitical, professionally high-level, and handled it, I think it needed three extensions of its activities. This sněmovna won't be able to make it. And that OKD wasn't as difficult as the covid crisis, I guess we all agree. There was just some shop where either knowingly someone lied or didn't lie. And a lot of things were known in advance. We just had the information. We had them taken from public space, and we were just confirming ourselves in those official documents, whether we got it right or wrong. But you will face a whole new problem because there was no such crisis in the history of the Czech Republic. You want to make it in three months. How do you want to make it in three months, preferably publicly, against someone who has real experience with preventive and early treatment of COVID-19 and has had hundreds of saved lives, such as the Chief of Staff, I hope to say it correctly, Rezek from St. Anne's Hospital in Brno, who started illegally, illegally, to save the lives of his patients, because he was tired of going to work and letting his patients die. And that should also be part of the investigation committee report. But I haven't heard from you, Mr. Michálek, that it should be part of her work. Here there were doctors who - it's not even off label, it's not even lege artis - they were really black and illegal saving people's lives. And they've been doing that for months. And they couldn't make a public statement until the information leaked to us on the Free Block, and until we released it and started discussing it here. And it was in our country and Slovakia. The Košice Protocol is a beautiful example of this. So if your report or your investigative committee doesn't include an assessment of the early and preventive treatment and the evaluation of all the drugs that are already available today and that we know are being used successfully in practice, and there are at least five of them now - Isoprinosin, Ivermectin, Immunor, Bundesit, which is an effective substance in the asthma inhaler, and the next one I can't remember - then your report is useless again. Okay, you reveal, you point out that you can't of course, you never lock anyone up because it was done right, those mobsters aren't stupid, but you point out that someone helped themselves to hundreds of billions. But the whole Republic already knows that. But this isn't about the billions anymore. They're like second-rate to me. My point is that 30,000 people died here, and most importantly, your report should be resolved. And it should be determined why the 30,000 people died. If they didn't die because of what Professor Žaloudík said, who was the covideo mafia and your opposition too, and his party for which he is running, the ČSSD didn't stand up for him with half the word he clearly said in spring 2020, if we stop treating all the other diseases, then in the fall it will come back to us as a boomerang and people will die. And that's exactly what happened. Will the death analysis in the Czech Republic be part of the report or activity of your commission from January to November and beyond? Will you find out how it is possible that from January to November we had fewer dead than the average of the previous years, and it has only increased so dramatically since November? Exactly as Professor Žaloudík predicted, who has not received a single word from you, from the opposition, nor from his party ČSSD? Because Professor Žaloudík hit the spot. He said that in the fall people who would not be operated on because of diseases in the circulatory system would die because of their oncological problems and other health problems. People died because they were afraid to see a doctor. They had symptoms of a heart attack, signs of a stroke. And they died at home because they were afraid to go to the doctor for the covid. The doctors closed their ambulances and were operating remotely. Doctors didn't take advantage of treatment options. The treatment was that either you survive the covid at home or you go to a hospital where 80 percent of the time died. Will this be part of the COVID-19 investigation committee's work? When do you want to make it? When do you want to make it, considering we're in the middle of a hot election campaign? You'll all be circling the regions. You're all gonna convince the voters how great you are. We'll pass in different ways in our buses around the Republic, sometimes we'll meet some truck. You'll all be busy getting the best election result you can. And you're telling me that you're going to work actively and well to protect this country from another wave of COVID-19? It's stupid. It's a lie. You guys are officially lying to your constituents because your peacock teams told you to. You guys are just... We're gonna set up an investigation committee here today, we're gonna have a chair job, somebody's gonna make a few extra crowns, a couple of times you're gonna meet, you're gonna bark up there, and you're not gonna solve anything. That's just the way it's gonna be. At least the OKD investigation committee had some order and some meaning. And unfortunately, it has only strengthened the citizens of the Czech Republic in the fact that calling for justice in this country through an investigation committee is absolutely impossible. [[9.50 hours]] How did the situation go on? Well, she continued to buy ineffective experimental drugs. Now I think of the Bamlanivimab, and then there were some others that, according to the information I have at my disposal, cost a billion crowns. For a billion crowns we bought experimental drugs that were written in their assessment, especially the Bamlanivimab, I read to you here that it is intended only for the treatment of the simplest forms of COVID-19. Even before we bought Remdesivir and other drugs, so the amount spent will be higher, it will be almost 2 billion if I think about it, because the Remdesivir cost about 25,000 a dose or more. No, Bamlanivimab cost over 20,000, Remdesivir was even more expensive. We have intersected here several times both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister to see if - because we know about Remdesivir, we know at Remdesivir that we have received either a placebo or a cure. We don't know what because it's a double-blind study, so no one knows what he got, but we know we got either that or that. Nobody answered our questions about Bamlanivimab, and no one answered our questions about the other medications. So we don't know if we spent that billion on drugs or on placebo, and according to the scientific principles, we should never know. Not even those patients who have been given this, they don't really know if they've been given a placebo or a cure, which is totally great. Well, for that billion, we could really buy so many generic drugs, for example, in the Asian markets, that each of us could have prepared a preventive dose at home for at least a year. It was even pre-negotiated, I told you here. I'd also like you to subpoena me to that committee so that I can testify about who supported us and who didn't support our information that there are drugs waiting for us in Bangladesh that are ready, just send out a military plane and we can have as much Ivermectin as we want, at the price of a crown of fifty a pill. The medicine, which is an integral part of the List of Essential Medicines World Health Organization, is a list of basic medicines from the World Health Organization, which has been administered about eight billion doses and against which no objections have ever been raised that it is extremely toxic, on the contrary, I suspect that it has the best score in terms of safety. Because of the number of doses it is logical, but the best score from all available medicines in terms of safety. None of you have lifted a finger to make this happen. The opposition didn't stand up once, and she didn't say, "We really want to take a look at the drugs." We really want to find out if these drugs are an alternative to vaccination or not an alternative to vaccination. Please invite Mr. docent here. MUDr. Török, CSc, the author of the Košický Protocol, who turned the death chart upside down in his hospital, means that where eight of the ten die, he dies two because no one will ever save all the patients in a viral disease such as influenza, covid or cold. Even for the cold, as weird as it sounds, probably every year someone dies. Will this be part of your commission's investigation? Will you consider the Košice Protocol, which has clearly set 0.2 milligrams of Ivermectin per kilogram of weight - in order to refute the claim here, through Mr President, of Professor Válek - 0.2 milligrams per kilogram of weight? Will you consider that part of the extremely successful Košice protocol is on the first day 1 gram of vitamin C intravenously - and I know that many of you go to intravenous vitamin C - 1 gram per kilogram of weight? I'm not even gonna tell you how much vitamin C I'd get. A lot. The next day it's 0.5 grams and the third day it's, I think, a quarter gram. By the way, the Minister of Health refused to answer that question, who said that he did not feel the need to answer that question. Will it be part of the investigation of this commission of yours and its final report of Minister Blatný's information that only 30 percent of the people led as victims of the covide died because of the covid? That the victims of the car crash are also being led there? Will your committee assess the reduction in the number of heart attacks and oncological diseases last year, which is about 50 percent? And could this committee of yours explain who cured these people? How did we achieve such a change in the eating habits of citizens of the Czech Republic and their mental attitude that we lost half of our heart attacks? That we're half out of cancer? You're gonna stop at the possibility that it's completely different? That the victims of heart attacks and oncological diseases were falsely led as covid victims? Will you lead your investigation in this direction as well? Are you going to find out back then, as they found out in Germany from PCR tests, how many percent of the people who were labeled positive were actually contagious? Because they've been looking into this in Germany, there's a shortcut to three letters that I don't remember, but you can all see it on the Free Block website, where I invite you to work with the brave people of the project. There are a lot of videos translated into Czech with subtitles. There are scientists who perform there under their own names, so you can Google them at any time and find their professional qualifications. In Germany, they discovered that at least 80 percent of all PCR positive patients were not infectious. Of all the numbers that came from Germany, 80 percent of PCR positive wasn't infectious. Are you going to find out what percent of this is in our country? Due to the technology used, similar, if not directly identical results can be assumed. There's another crisis ahead of us, because it's ready, it's planned. The government, in conjunction with the so-called opposition, is gradually preparing our company with individual balloons and preparing our company for another wave to strike here in September. You'll develop a system until then to make it clear that a person is PCR positive, but isn't he infectious? Will you learn from abroad? You're gonna invest money in this? So you don't force people who have a dead virus residue in them for, like, a month, happen to come up with a PCR test, they're told they have the virus in them, but they're not infectious, because the virus is just dead, it's inactive, their immune system destroyed it, they don't rule out any other COVID-19. In Germany it was 80 percent of people! Do any of the doctors and scientists here, statistics, know how many people it was in the Czech Republic? Can you then get out and say, in our country it was 20 percent, 10, 30, 50, 5 because we did this research? Apparently not. [[10.00 hours]] Will the COVID-19 commission also deal with questions about unilaterally led vaccination campaigns? About the fact that information about the history of mRNA vaccines has been classified to citizens of this republic? That they weren't informed by public or other media that this technology was here for 20, 30 years and that it was so terribly unsuccessful, so inefficient and so dangerous that it never got to the final stage of human testing and that it always ended with animals dying? That this technology is really being tested for decades and only now, because experimental use of these vaccines has been allowed, is it being tried on humans? Will you inform citizens that everyone who has taken this infusion is really part of the experiment because this treatment does not have full registration, has only partial and is one major study? Or using some documents from the SÚKL and further disprove this information because you will have a document confirming the full certification of these infusion treatments in the Czech Republic? No, my colleague doesn't know. And given your education, it is very sad, through Mr President, that you are living a lie. You see, unfortunately, there are doctors here in the House, through Mr President, who think that the vaccines have full registration - and do not. She's a doctor, a ANO Member, and she's uneducated in her field. Will it be clearly and 100% written in your report that, to date, there is simply no fully registered infusion, a vaccine against COVID-19? Will you inform the public about this? Because if you don't, you will once again participate in the crime of concealing the truth from the citizens so that they cannot make their own and freely critical decisions. And if they don't have the right to make a critical decision, then your claim or claim that it's a free choice of vaccination is not mandatory, it's voluntary, it's a lie only on that principle, because these people can't make a critical, qualified and therefore free decision, because you're keeping this information from them. And it looks like it's the reaction that the committee of inquiry is going to keep them a secret. You didn't inform the public that - at least I didn't register it that way - Dr. Bukovský, Slovak youtuber, had to inform me about it, and I had to find it at ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Control, which points out that thousands of women lost their child in the first trimester, miscarried after an infusion of mRNA solution against COVID-19. I don't hear anybody from the Health Committee. I don't hear the Minister of Health. I do not hear any of the so-called opposition who would warn against this or who would simply want to inform those citizens. I didn't see an ad on TV -- let's do a dot behind the covideo, we got you and those infusion solutions that have... This one has a full registration approved, this one has a partial registration approved, after which so many women have miscarried so many and so many, after which so many people have died and so many, take the risk, decide and make an informed decision if the sneakers are worth it. When you come to that department store where there's a doctor, or maybe a non-doctor, maybe a nurse, or maybe some helper, will put a paper in front of you that doesn't say if your vaccine is a gift from Serbia, from Israel, or from any other country, thereby disclaiming the claim for compensation, it won't be written there, and the person who has no emotional attachment to you, which you see for the first time in your life and which you'll see for the last time in your life, is going to inject into your hand an infusion mRNA solution that one of his co-workers is publicly declaring, and he's being punished for that, of course, that mRNA was a mistake, that the pike proteins are toxic and that he would never have vaccinated, nor any of his family would have let that vaccine. Will this be part of the investigation committee's report, the unbalanced infusion and vaccination campaign where we systematically conceal the risks to the citizens of this country instead of informing them? Official numbers are that out of 15 million, only 500 women are aborted. Why don't you tell these people? Next door, you can put the number of women who miscarried last year because of COVID-19. Will this committee of inquiry report include information on how many women have miscarried because of COVID-19, how many have lost their child during the covidal crisis due to COVID-19? Because we know how many women lost their baby because of the MRNA COVID-19 infusion in the United States. We don't know because our public register doesn't work in the United States, but we're setting it up now on the Free Block website. So who will have information about the undesirable side effects of the infusion against COVID-19, so under certain conditions will be able to publish them on our website and we will introduce this to the public, we will do the work for the rest of the House, for the Ministry of Health, for the Prime Minister of this government so that people can really critically decide whether they want to become part of any experiment. And I've been doing these things that these vaccines aren't fully certified and that people who get vaccinated with this solution become part of an experiment and a clinical study, publicly and outside the Chamber of Deputies, so I assume that if I were to spread some kind of alarm report, my party opponents or some expert will take it easy on me. [[tho]] It will be part of the report and the work of your committee of inquiry by doctors, I will now not remember his name, I will ask Marian if - he can not, he is talking to the lady now, I understand - but in the Czech Republic, imagine that there is a doctor - and he really thinks he is a doctor - who has received some delivery of AstraZeneca vaccines. He's been inoculating patients that he's been able to convince, and he's got them left, and now I don't know if 40 or 60. He had them in there somewhere in the fridge, he felt sorry for them, but then came the official warning from the Ministry of Health that this vaccine must not be used for people under the age of 60. By that time, former Minister Prymula even said on TV that if anyone applied this, this Astruzeneca, to someone under the age of 60, it was a conscious threat to his life. And this alleged, supposedly, this doctor boasted in the CT that he had invited patients under 60 years of age and that he had persuaded them to have the vaccine. So this supposedly doctor confessed publicly in the Czech Republic to endangering the lives of dozens of his patients, and he was listed as a positive example in the Czech Republic, and I assume that no one will join you in our criminal report and our request to exclude this person from the Medical Chamber, because this is Mengele. This man is not a doctor, he is Mengele, he is a doctor of death, because he gets clear information lege artis, information that this AstraZeneca threatens people under 60 years of age, and he invites a few dozen to his office, abuses his position as a doctor, abuses the authority he has in his patients' eyes, and applies to them something that they can die after. And he has information about it. Will this psychosis be part of the COVID-19 investigation report? Are you going to discuss these cases? Are you going to listen to any of these at least - that said here, I think - 19 or 21 percent last time - I don't really remember - doctors who refuse to vaccine? Fortunately, they don't have to, and have there been such socialist fantasies about how I'm just gonna get them to have to vaccinate? I have doctors in my neighborhood who were being sent out of hospitals to work at the so-called vaccination centers, and those doctors are just saying no after the first shift. They just don't trust the vaccine from a professional point of view and for professional reasons and refuse to participate in the fact that they're right in the body of people they don't know at all, about whom they don't know what their real condition is, to right into their bodies some kind of infusion mRNA solution that they can't even know what it's gonna be like to affect their health in a year, two, five, ten. [[10.10 hours]] None of this, President Michálek, has been mentioned in your proposal through Mr President. There were only commercial pie points that you want to use in the context of the political struggle, because this is just about power and just about control over who will run the globalization agenda in the Czech Republic, who will run the media covidic panic, who will manage the flows of money, trillions and trillions of crowns that will have to be spent on covid. And that's all this is about. Because if you wanted to find out what the real causes of the covid crisis were, you'd have to want to find out first how the virus originated, you'd have to invite Mrs. Soňa Peková. If you were intelligent enough, you would invite the winner of the Nobelův cena for the isolation of Mr. Luco Montagnier's HIV virus, through our French embassy it would be no problem, and publicly ask him to explain why he thinks the virus was artificially created. You could definitely ask him for a presentation, just like Dr. Peková, they would have done it very quickly. And you could be the Nobelův cena Luco Montagnier, which is such a capacity in the field of virology that I don't even know how to describe it, it's definitely one of those K8 globally - so you could ask him why he thinks that vaccination is currently a huge mistake, why he thinks a terrible lot of people are going to die after that and why he, the Nobel laureate for virology, is convinced that it's a vaccination that creates all those mutations. He's certainly happy to come, he's very calm, he's got his years, he's not worried about his career anymore, he's obviously not worried about his life anymore, so why wouldn't he fly in and why would he not explain it to us here, even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, if this capacity, this global stellar, maybe overeducated capacity in the field of virology, wouldn't explain it to us. That's what you'd have to do first. If it were to be the COVID-19 committee of inquiry, you would have to look into the fact that there is an official version of the investigation of the American authorities that confirms Dr. Peková's claim and Mr. Luco Montagnier's and about three or four other virologists whose names I do not remember that COVID-19 is of artificial origin. It's not just a conspiracy theory anymore, it's an official investigation version of the American authorities. Then you should try to find out, in cooperation with our allies, whether the release of this virus occurred by accident, by mistake or intentionally, because in a world of hybrid conflicts that our hybrid warriors, through Mr President, are constantly informing us about, for example, is no more dangerous than releasing a computer virus, and this is happening today and every day. A computer virus can kill more people around the world faster and more efficiently than COVID-19. A well-released computer virus in the Czech Republic could very easily and very quickly kill more than 30,000 people per year, because we all know what a computer virus can do. It just wouldn't work. The infrastructure would fall apart, your dentist wouldn't tear out your tooth very slowly, because it wouldn't be connected to the UHIS or to someone, hospitals would collapse, large factories would collapse, huge social unrest. And releasing computer viruses and cyberterrorism is a thing that happens today and every day from all, say, four sides, because I kind of assume a four-pole global division of forces where individual globalization groups are attacking each other today and every day. The escape of such a virus could be the beautiful work of one of those globalization groups against China. Maybe China didn't want to release it, or someone could have agreed to release the virus on purpose, because it would lead globally to a change in the social system, to a reduction in human rights, and so on. And the duty of your commission of inquiry would be to discuss this, the origin of the virus, and how it got public, because if you don't deal with the origin of the virus and how it got public, it's another piece of evidence into the mosaic that you're only interested in a pre-election firefight between the opposition and the government, from which you individually pull out what suits you, and you'll sell it to your constituents falsely. These first two things are simply a basic building block for your next activity, because if you come to the opinion based on scientific information that it is possible that the virus has been artificially manufactured and that it is possible that it has been deliberately released, whether by some diversant against China or China itself, as the official investigation version is in the United States, it will be your third duty to think about who has actively helped that virus to spread so actively and successfully across the Czech Republic, and it will be your duty to find out the flow of money, in such a way that it will definitely. You should find out to the last crown where all the money from the 800 or 700 million has gone, or if it's already a trillion that's been paid for the covid. How far did they touch who had what percentage of the test business? Who had what percentage of the business with protective aids? Who had what percentage of business with those ineffective drugs that could have been placebo? And you should be able to find out by the last crown. Can you explain to me how you're gonna make it in three months? Well, maybe Mr. Feranec can explain to me how the committee wants to make it in three months. As I'm saying, I wasn't much of an active member of the OKD investigation committee, because most of the information there was such publicly available, self-conscious ones. Unfortunately, we have not learned the essential information, because, as I said before, the committee of inquiry is not yet a means of Parliament to find out the truth, because they will laugh at you, and who does not want to come will not just come. And we still needed three or four times, I don't know if the President is going to point a finger at me about how many times we've extended the investigation committee's activities - three times, thank you. You see, the Free Block also deals with the pirát when it comes to finding out the facts. So three times we asked the House to extend the OKD commission's activities, and that was an event that was many years old, which we had really 95 percent of all the privates, we just knew what had happened -- someone bought it for OKD, someone else actually bought it other than the one with which the signed contract was signed were in the apartments that weren't supposed to be there. We all knew all this, except it was written down on paper, and then the political parties divided political points here. But now you're facing a whole new phenomenon that you didn't know anything about until a year and a half ago. You're facing a whole new phenomenon, and you want to find out all about COVID-19 in three months? No, this committee of inquiry is not designed to make voters and citizens of the Czech Republic aware of the truth about COVID-19, it is created so that you can shoot each other in front of your voters before the elections, to deepen the differences between voters, to annoy them against each other so that they don't accidentally run away from you, and to choose from it in writing, in media terms what will suit you for your election performances, billboards and the like. [[10.20 hours]] Because the next thing you'd have to find out is why no one listened to experts' opinions from practice with preventive treatment and primary treatment. And part of what he wrote or said here, through Mr President, Mr Michálek, would have to be some point of revision of preventive and primary care for patients with COVID-19, and that is not there. Or I would like to ask Mr Michálek, through Mr President - he is not here, but I have not heard it, and if anyone has heard it, wave to me - but in my view, what Mr Michálek read, through Mr President, was not about reviewing the preventive and primary care of patients with COVID-19, and the experience is really tragic - doctors simply did not. The doctors locked themselves in, ordined on the phone, and when someone had a confirmed COVID-19, they told him to be home, acting like he had the flu, and when he was in big trouble, he'd call an ambulance. And there was going to the hospital to die, unfortunately. In intensive care units, eight out of ten. You can fix me if anyone here has achieved better results. And here we have information from doctors who, of course, were still statistically insignificant on a small sample, but did some preventive primary, but also the acute care for patients who would otherwise have been condemned to die, and achieved other - better - results than in departments that did not apply this treatment. And the medical community, the political community, the government and the opposition, is preventing the teeth from somehow comparing the effectiveness of the treatment, which consisted in virtually nothing, and then the use of oxygen, when people were mass-death, and then the treatment with something - and, as I said, the drugs are currently five - and the transfer of these experiences to the future. Now I think we had an ideal time because we have sunshine, people have a lot of vitamin D, viruses generally recede during spring and summer, and here should have been a long-run state-funded study of the effectiveness of those medicines that could have been performed with the informed consent of patients now receiving covid. How is this less ethical than the application of the mRNA infusion solution, which is also in experimental phase? If you asked these people if they would participate in a study where they would be given a medicine that is so safe that it is on the World Health Organization's list of basic medicines and which has the best safety score of all medicines in general? What would be dangerous about this when IHIS data tells us that only about a quarter of a million weekly doses of Isoprinosine were sold last year and reported, I think, six suspicions, six suspicions! the side effects? These weren't even confirmed to be Isoprinosine, but there was suspicion that the patients were taking blood thinners at the same time, and that's just contraindication. So what makes this approach less ethical than a multimillion-dollar campaign and handing out sneakers to a vaccine that is not a vaccine from the definition of many vaccineologists? That's why I'm trying not to talk about her as a vaccine, and I'm trying to find the right expression because, in my opinion, a lot of people... You don't agree with me, Doctor, but these people are public, they're professionals in the field, at least just like you, with the same practice, and they just don't think what's going on as a vaccine is consistent with the definition of a vaccine, because it doesn't contain any part of the virus, it doesn't contain any weakened or otherwise grown, there's just nothing from the virus. So what makes it less ethical? Will this be part of your investigation report? You will present the example of Professor Beran, who first used Isoprinosin in a nursing home, where there were 180 clients, half of them were ill, half of them were healthy, the elderly home did not allow technically separate the sick from the healthy, so the sick took three times a day two tablets of Isoprinosine, as it is written in the leaflet, and the healthy ones took, I think, twice a day one. None of those infected patients - and there were people 80 years plus - died, not one, and none of those patients who had negative PCR tests were positive. I don't know how they did it, they just didn't have the virus in them, they didn't have the dead, they just weren't positive. You're gonna ask for Mr. Mayor's anonymous material on that committee, I think Rezek - I hope I'm not confusing it - from svatý Anna's hospital? You will request Mr. docent's materials. MUDr. Török, CSc, who treats patients in the hardest phase of covid using the Košický Protocol? Will you request anonymous medical reports and statistical data from the Chief of Košice, who also treats with the help of the Košice Protocol? Will this be part of your investigation committee? Will your commission be part of the role of vitamin D in preventing COVID-19 disease? Because there are hundreds of research papers on this subject nowadays, and it turns out that people who really had a rough course or died on COVID-19 had extremely low levels of vitamin D. That's why we started with the Free Block and Marian thanks to the activities of our sponsors to drive around our senior homes, and we substitute the role of government there, we, as the Free Block, hand out vitamins and minerals to our seniors in retirement homes. Will it be part of your report to evaluate the care of the most endangered group, that is, our seniors? Are you going to look at examples from abroad where, oddly enough, in those developing countries, the state was sending to members of endangered groups, i.e. seniors, vitamin packages, where vitamin C, vitamin D and other minerals were believed to strengthen immunity? You will ask the Prime Minister about your committee of inquiry, where he will always come when you call him: Hey, Prime Minister, come here, we want to question you today, hear you tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, because we need to do this by September at the latest. I'm sure he'll be happy to be there for you to barbecue him and to provide you with some material against each other. How are you even going to ensure the synergies of all those people you want to investigate when you have really three months and those people just don't have to go there? They just don't have to go! Or they'll come in and say they refuse to testify, and it's over, and you won't do anything about them. So I don't know who you're going to ask why the Czech Republic has left its seniors behind and hasn't been strengthening immunity or vitamin and mineral supplementation all along the covid crisis, but not by allowing them to be at least partially in a good mood. On the contrary, he arrests them, literally, and arrests them to the letter in their senior homes and leaves them to their death. Both government and opposition. Both government by its active measures, illegal and opposition by its passivity, inactivity and unwillingness to fight for its constituents. [[10.30 hours]] How do you explain to all the businessmen who have suffered losses, to all their employees who are unemployed, how do you explain to all those who have failed or are going to fail in the future, the fact that you, as opposition, could have eliminated the emergency situation by your obstructions a long time ago last summer or when it was announced again, because if you had occupied it, it would never have been confirmed. How do you explain to them that you, ODS and TOP 09, who supposedly care about the middle and the small ones, let them fall, that you only alibistically raised some compensation here, but you always made it possible to discuss the extension of the emergency situation. And I repeat, you have not allowed the Czech Council to be elected once, because if you really do not want something, it will not happen in the House. But you wanted those emergencies. ODS wanted emergency states, TOP 09 wanted emergency states, KDU-ČSL wanted emergency states, Pirates wanted emergency states. You wanted those emergencies because you took them as forms of political struggle. Your peacock agencies have told you that this percentage of your electorate supports emergency situations, this is against, and what you have to do to look the way you need in the faces of those who expect you to fight emergency situations. Because the next wave is coming, so how is your investigation committee gonna help them know whether or not they're gonna invest, whether or not they're gonna do business? Will your commission of inquiry have any information as to whether the state, instructed by previous failures, will take a similar position as abroad and avoid any covideo-1, covido-2, covido-3 by introducing stencil measures? I mean, we're going to put in place, like, 50 or 60 percent, so these people know what's going to happen when the covid strikes again. Or is your committee of inquiry gonna let them down so they don't know what to do with themselves, with their social and health, with their employees? How will the ODS react to this? How does the TOP 09 stand up to this? How do those who say that they protect people from jobs like ČSSD? A lot of people work with small and medium-sized employers, Mr. Stanjura knows the number very well, who often operates with him here. And all these people were betrayed by this House, the whole House. You're gonna discuss that with the investigation committee report? An investigation committee that should simply explain to people in this country what it is COVID-19, how it came to be here, how it spread here, what measures we have taken for it, and why so many people died in our country compared to countries like Sweden, Norway, Finland, but also Ukraine and Belarus? I know it's Belarus that's like a red bull rag on you, but it just is. And if this comparative part, this statistics won't be part of the investigation committee's work, what will the public learn? The public's gonna know somebody was stealing. But we all know that, because in the Czech Republic, when it comes to state money, it's always been stolen, stolen, and if the system is still the same, it will be stolen. And if someone can get rich by buying a respirator for five crowns and selling it for 700, then someone will. That's right, that's not news, that doesn't surprise anyone. You're gonna point hard at Babiš, and Babiš is gonna say he couldn't have bought it cheaper. You don't convince any extra voters, he won't lose either, because his voters hate you, and your voters hate him. But once again, the committee of inquiry will not bring anything new into this political situation in the Czech Republic. Nothing at all! Then you want to evaluate the progress of the Czech government within the pandemic, but the diction of these things shows that the only thing you intend to blame the government is that it has sometimes loosened up. That's all you want to blame the government for, 'cause you're going to be on the verge that when you're in power, you're not gonna relax at all. You who have called this meeting, if you get to power, you will not relax at all, because there is not a word in the way you proposed the work of the commission of inquiry that should be compared to countries that have not taken any measures at all, but only that you want to evaluate the activity when it has loosened up in the summer and when it has loosened up before Christmas. This means that the direction of your thinking for voters is clear, it is simple. You're saying that relaxing in the summer was a mistake, and you're saying that relaxing before Christmas was a mistake, and you're not going to repeat those mistakes. So, under the government of you who have proposed this meeting, the citizens of this Republic will live in an endless lockdown that will once again allow - because you, even if you seize power, do know how the mob ties work: before you clean up all the ministries and get it back to your greedy people who are on all sides, they will continue to do business. And when you take them over with your greedy people, they'll continue this time under your flag, if you defend yourself that it's not your corruption case, and it'll ride the classic wheel until the system changes fundamentally. And this investigation committee doesn't have a chance to find out. This investigation committee doesn't have a chance to find out anything because it's just for three months. The other thing is that while we were there at the OKD Committee of Investigation discussing things that were classified and were part of police files, I think that the committee's proceedings on COVID-19 under its provisions should be laid down as public - public online. This means that people should have the right to watch each meeting of this commission and each hearing of each witness live.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u7	Dear Member, I will interrupt you for a moment, because the designated plaintiff and, at the same time, the rapporteur in the press probably needed to be physiologically removed for a moment, but I am not interrupting the meeting. I will use the interruption to read organizational items such as, for example, my colleague Hoppe has a replacement card number 15, my colleague Valachová's replacement card number 11. From today's meeting, Minister Metnar, Minister Plaga, Minister Zaorálek and Minister Jan Hamáček apologize. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová also apologizes from Members from 16 to 19 o'clock, Mr Ondřej Polanský from today's meeting from 10 to 12 o'clock, Mr Ondřej Benešík from 10 to 13 o'clock, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček from 9 to 14 o'clock, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch from 10 to 13 o'clock, Mr Helena Langšádlová from 9 to 11 o'clock, Mr Richter from 10 to 11.30 Pavel Žáček, from 10 to 11.15 Mr králíček, who also apologizes again from 16.30 to 18 o'clock, Mr Marek Výborný from 9.15 for the whole day of the hearing and also for the whole day of the hearing, Mr Fridrich apologizes and for the whole day of the hearing, Mr Fridrich - one more apology is here. Then until the end of the day, President Vondráček apologizes from 13:00 on a business trip, Vít Rakušan for the whole day of the meeting, and Mr Stanislav Grospič apologises from now on, 10.30 until the end of the day. So much of an apology. [[10.40 hours]] And I see that the plaintiff and rapporteur, Mr Michálek, is already here, so we can proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u8	I'll freshen up for the next hour and a half. [[He's drinking.]] Well, I'm quite concerned that once again, when we talk about the most important committee of inquiry in the history of the Czech Republic, because this is the most important committee of inquiry in the history of the Czech Republic, because the covid crisis is the most critical tragedy that has occurred in the history of the Czech Republic, this committee of inquiry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u9	I think it's quiet enough for you to go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u10	I thought he was supposed to sit... So I signed up for the debate from the point of view. No one is or hasn't been logged in, and now there's only one coworker logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u11	But you also have a factual remark that wants to respond to your performance, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u12	I understand that, but I'm just pointing out the fact that I applied from the scene, there was no one there again. You're back on the table and you don't care what this committee is really going to do or won't do. You are already set up at the theatre where each of you will rip off his piece in writing, in media terms, the slack you throw to your constituents, they will fight over it, and nothing will change about the upcoming covido wave, because the suggestions or points he has read here, through Mr President, Mr Michálek, do not contain anything new at all. They do not contain an appreciation of past progress with the more successful ones, they do not contain any idea of how to save another 30,000 people. How to learn in countries where the 30,000 people per 10 million simply did not die? There's no information on how to make sure the situation doesn't happen again. There's no information on how the investigation committee can change anything. It's just common, constantly repeating things that people normally have from public space, because that's information that's publicly available. We all know that overpriced medical supplies were being purchased, we all know that. We all know that many hospitals were falsely showing covido patients because they were making hundreds of thousands, millions. We have information directly from the Minister... Shouldn't there be a member of the government?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u13	He should, the minister also took a leak with his consent. But if you insist, of course, on that moment... The minister is coming back, I see him through that door. But of course I'll wait until he gets to the O.R. [[He's waiting a while.]] If anyone from the club, I can also see that he's on the phone, from the club YES, he asked the minister to return to the ballroom so that we could continue. He's here. You may proceed. The conditions of the Rules of Procedure shall be fulfilled. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. 'Cause I forgot where I left off, so I gotta grab another point. Sure. I'm gonna have to grab another point, and then I'm gonna remember. The next point I would like to discuss here is the role - I ask Mr Michálek here, perhaps he will answer me - what role will be played by the commission of inquiry, or in answer to the question whether or not vaccination against COVID-19 is voluntary, or whether it is already discriminatory. And you're going to put a point there that, in the context of your committee of inquiry, which you've already been part of as a lawyer, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, would be either a wing of lawyers, or a negotiating point that will assess whether the current government and media pressure on vaccination has already caused the situation that the vaccine is not voluntary, because it is already under duress. And if I'm not mistaken, maybe you're very uncompromising about rape. Indeed, the question - who knows the rape - also enters the body cavity, and there is the release of genetic material against the will of a person who is being raped, whether male or female. You're very uncompromising there, and there's just a hint of verbal pressure, if I'm not mistaken, you want to consider at least sexual harassment, if not rape. The concept of coercion knows our rule of law, it's just illegal and unacceptable, it's actually blackmail, so your committee will answer the question whether the government's progress is no longer pressure and blackmail for citizens who have just critically decided not to vaccinate themselves and their children. I'm not saying they can't be wrong, they can be wrong. Maybe five, ten years from now, it'll show how great the vaccine was. But it still might turn out otherwise, okay? She can still prove to be dangerous. And in the Czech Republic, people who are not vaccinated already have problems. Funny thing is, they're also vaccinated because if they don't have test certificates, even if they're fully vaccinated, they don't get to go on vacation. These are such funny situations, but this is going to be wiped out in time in that covido fascism if this committee lets it happen. Because I think that it should also be an integral part of your work to assess the legal situation in terms of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, so that we can then, at the end of our term of office, such as the last thing, approve your report on COVID-19. And I think people... you can use the bathroom... [[Mr Luzar asks if he can move away from the microphone.]] ... after lunch. Well, I'm sorry, I didn't know anyone else was interested in getting off because I don't see them. I didn't see them there at the beginning. And I think, Mr Member, through Mr President, that you did not want to perform, because I have applied from the point of view. And if I hadn't checked in from the scene, it would have been voted by now. So now your claim is a purposeful lie, you didn't want to get off, did you? You have no proof of that. You were not mentioned, either through Mr President or on the board, nor raised your hand before I did, nor did you request a performance with priority rights, so you did not want to speak. You guys just wanted to approve. I'm happy to free up the floor for anyone, especially the authors of the proposal and the authors of the motion to set up the commission, because I need answers to the questions, what do you want to do in three months and what will be or will not be part of your investigation? [[10.50 hours]] [[Mr Luzar comes to the speaker's desk and asks whether other Members will also be able to speak.]] I also consider the comment made by Mr Luzar - I am sorry, but I dare to react through Mr President - to be rude because I think that is something Mr Stanjur would not have been able to say to Mr Stanjur at the third hour of his speech. So I would say that when I take advantage of the same provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies as all my other colleagues, going to attack me at the table is really hypocritical and pointless and I warn you that it is ineffective, I would say counterproductive. It's what's known as the popular heat under the boiler. Because if we don't have the real discussion here -- she's not here yet, and it doesn't look like that committee wants to run it -- whether we're already in the apartheid phase or not, the tension in society will only grow. Only an open bilateral dialogue between the sympathizers and the opponents of vaccination on the soil of this committee can lead to a mutually acceptable position being adopted. If this committee does not offer to citizens who have critically decided that they do not want to participate in any mRNA experiment, that they do not want to let anything enter their body, release genetic material there because they do not want to be raped, then this committee, where the parties that really have the definition of rape have a very extremely sophisticated soft - such as pirát, TOP 09 - should be the first to fight against someone having to let something in and release genetic material. So will the commission examine from a legislative point of view whether the current government procedure has exceeded the limits of the crime of coercion or extortion? Or is vaccination really a hundred percent voluntary if you don't look anywhere without a vaccine or any other document? And when balloons are released - like the Czech News Agency Nova released a balloon that up to 38% of Czech citizens want compulsory vaccination, which is, of course, babbling - but these balloons are already being released. People need to know what legislative situation they are in today and what the real state of their rights is, if an employer can press them with statements that if they don't get vaccinated, they will pay for lost contracts, and if a covid shows up at work, so that they will be allowed to take compensation from their salary for people who are at home for sickness. Because this happened in public space, such entrepreneurs exist, and they publicly announced it. And I have not heard screams from the opposition, nor from the ČSSD - one side of the work - and not from the KSČM - from the other side of the work that would vehemently stand up for these employees and say that this approach is not only unethical, but is illegal, and they have filed criminal charges to protect those employees who are publicly blackmailed by their employers that if they do not get vaccinated, they will be punished illegally financially. Neither KSČM Member nor ČSSD Member stood up for these people's work. So whoever is a member of that committee of inquiry, whether he looks like a leftist or a right-winger, whether he claims to be for the European Union or against the European Union, I assume you're going to evaluate the legislative state, because here are the articles where the title is: "Pulling a whip on the unscathed, for that is soon." Anyone who is gifted with nothing but critical reasoning will understand the title simply. We'll force as many people as possible to be forced by this pressure, and then we'll pull the whip for the rest. What will be the role of the commission of inquiry that demands ambition - as President Michálek here said - to avoid repeating the errors, so what will be the role of this committee of inquiry so that no fascist can afford to pull a whip at people who don't want to be poisoned by experimental mRNA infusions that no doctor and any scientist at all can say what it will do to them in a year, two, three, five? What's the role of the investigation committee here in this? Will there be any, Mr. Chairman Michálek, through the President? Do I get an answer to at least one of those questions? Do you want me to repeat them just in case? I didn't notice if you were taking notes, Mr. Michálek, so I feel like I should repeat them. Mr. Chairman Michálek has notes, which is absolutely amazing. It would almost allow me to quit, but I feel that the time for me to quit hasn't quite come yet, because my feeling that I haven't said everything is so all-embracing. The investigating committee, which has three months in its work and has no answer in its programme to one single question, which would no longer be in the public area and the public has not had a clear view of it... That means that those who vote for Mr. Babiš will not be convinced that Mr. Babiš is stealing, nobody. Even if the Prime Minister steals Czech crown jewels live, no one will believe it from his voters. We all know he has this position. If we find out that the pirát are about to introduce a covidal apartheid, because the only problem they see in the government's activities from a prophylactic point of view is that the government has released twice, you can tell the convinced Pirát voters anything and they won't believe you until the pirát do it in the government. All other points, as designed or read here by Mr Michálek, through Mr President, are points which are publicised and which are widely known. But those points that would really explain what really happened here in the Czech Republic over the last year and a half, there aren't any of them. And I would really like to know the answer to the question of whether this commission of inquiry will examine the origin of the virus, it will examine the way it is spread across the Czech Republic. Because I forgot to mention the work of the professor - now I can't remember - they tested perhaps twenty surfaces, including the air at the Main Post office in Brno, where at least 2,000 people passed, and in the shopping center Šantovka, where 6,000 people passed. They examined them using the same PCR method that humans are looking at, whether they are or are not infectious. I assume you know that the result was that covid doesn't spread in enclosed spaces. He wasn't on any surface, he wasn't on the employees' hands, he wasn't on the customers' hands, he wasn't on the touch screens of self-service stores, but he wasn't even in the air-conditioning. That means that it wasn't by chance that 6,000 people who all had fresh respirators came there that day, following precautions, weren't infectious. The PCR test can find the virus that's three weeks old, maybe even a month old. And by examining the air-conditioning in both cases, it is clear scientific evidence that covid is not spreading in enclosed spaces, because it was an experiment carried out under the same conditions repeatedly with the same result. Yet the main part of the government's strategy was to restrict people in closed spaces. In enclosed areas where the air is breathed, we still put respirators or drapes on our mouths. [[11.00 hours]] So it will be part of the COVID-19 investigation committee to evaluate these scientific experiments, will this committee propose their repetition so that we avoid avoiding the virus where it is not and where it is not spreading in the future? In general, no one is able to say this today, here I would like the expert opinion of a fellow doctor and scientist. No one can tell how the covid spreads because no one knows. It is assumed to spread through emulsions or drips, that is the assumption, not confirmed. And will this commission of inquiry also be part of the evaluation of the work that has already devoted itself to the efficiency or inefficiency of wearing drapes and respirators? Will this committee assess whether or not these respirators are helping? Will anyone be there critically discussing this information with the fact that you are back there in public, in an online process, in public appearances, will you invite people who processed the studies, even if they were to be people from abroad? I think that at such a critical time as the time of covid, and in such a critical case as the commission of inquiry on COVID-19, we should invest state resources in calling experts, such as - it is true, thank you - such as Nobelův Prize winners, to testify before Parliament's parliamentary committee of the Czech Republic that they should be invited, they should be paid a trip, they should simply be reimbursed for all costs. [[There was a sneeze coming from the diaper.]] Other scientists, experts, such as the author of mRNA vaccination, who now warns against mRNA vaccination and believes that it was his greatest professional mistake and that spike protein is a dangerous toxin. I think these people should be invited to the Czech Republic, and it is mainly an idea for the Pirates, because the pirát are essentially international, multicultural, open and transparent. So I think that, in particular, the pirát should support this proposal and bring those foreign capacities here. And they should support my proposal that the committee's meeting be public and online, not so as to act as the OKD committee's meeting. I'll understand there, there was a crime, eventually there might have been some information leaking, okay. This is about lives, and I think that even if it were to thwart some police investigation that some tunneller wouldn't be arrested, we've seen it x-fold in the Czech Republic, tens of thousands of people's lives aren't worth it. So the commission will deal with the origin of the virus, the way it's spread, which I say we don't know anything, the committee will describe how it's spreading, will the committee be looking at a comparison of statistics from countries like us, where the mortality rate, or where the death rate was 50 percent, 90 percent lower than in our country? Will you invite experts in preventive and primary care for patients with COVID-19? Will you invite experts such as Mr. Associate Professor Török or Mr. Mayor Rezek, who are experts in the last phase of COVID-19 care, at the last stage, from which either one escapes from the gravedigger's shovel or dies? Will you evaluate the critical attitude of all parliamentary parties to emergency situations, which means your opposition? You've always had an emergency situation in your hands, all you had to do was block the House. If you really didn't agree to this emergency, there would never be an emergency. Will you evaluate the activities of the captains, especially the ODS and TOP 09, when ODS and TOP 09 voted vehemently in the Chamber of Deputies against emergency conditions - and their - and I think yes, right - and their captains have made it possible to declare another illegal state? Will this commission of inquiry be dealing with the legislative state of voluntary vaccination at present, whether it is no longer the preparation of a crime of blackmail, oppression, very similar rape? And you really want to do all this in three months? To make it clear that I am a democrat who will give you the opportunity to express yourself, even though you will now falsely claim that you wanted to perform, which you did not want, and I will now be on the air to all the viewers, even to those who will watch later, repeat that I was the first to speak in this debate. No one on the board was logged in, no one with priority rights. I had to raise my hand to get into the debate, no one picked it up in front of me, which means the entire House was set up to set up the committee without any debate and without any criticism of what the committee was about to do in three months. The evidence is indisputable, it's 100%, because once you put this video to the start, you'll see that there's no name on the board, the committee chair doesn't call on anyone with priority rights until Lubomír Volný reports, so after about half an hour, there's another name. [[meeting properly]] This House was prepared by the votes of all parties, without debate to approve the piárová theatrical investigation committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, I have Mr. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'm fine with the factual remark. I think that if a colleague was watching Volný, even though he had a short two hours to perform, at least press releases, he would know that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is not in favour of setting up the commission of inquiry, he has good reasons for doing so. Perhaps some have something to do with what he repeated several times in his speech. I just want to point out that we really did not need any emails from the Free Bloc as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia to decide not to support the emergency situation in February of this year. So we mentioned the situation that ended with the adoption of the pandemic law, which we did not support because it did not solve the situation that was in the Czech Republic. Unlike him, we are responsible for the citizens of the Czech Republic, we respect the Constitution, the rules, even the Rules of Procedure, and we do not need any advice from him. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. With priority rights for KSČM club Member Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will now speak, through you, to a fellow Volný. He wasn't looking. Mr. Volný, through you, has applied from the bench about a few seconds before I raised my hand to sign up, too. If he looked at that side, he'd see it. But I wanted to allow him to get off because there really was no one logged in, and I was surprised, too. So I allowed him to go, and I didn't abuse my priority right. If he's interested in the truth, he's gonna go to the reporter who writes the logged in, and she's gonna tell him that as soon as he got off, I was there, I wanted to sign in. And as he's been talking, I said, well, don't write it anymore, I'll get off with priority rights. [[11.10 hours]] So, Mr. Colleague, just so you know, when you brief your fans, have them e-mail us to allow specific people to speak, try reading the e-mails, too, and try to allow us to speak when we are interested, and do not block us from speaking on this important topic. I'd beg you to, because of course, you're doing a very good job of blaming others. The e-mails that your supporters are sending, which you are instructing, because you have made it clear here that you are training them in parliamentary procedures and the Institute of Parliamentary Democracy, so they should at least be correct in this spirit. Yes, you repeated that you were the only one who called on KSČM voters to e-mail and send and challenge your members to us, so try to educate and instruct those who send these emails, because in the e-mails I received, and I suppose many colleagues too, I was called the last right-wing politician to defend Havlův's history and democracy and fight for it. Those people you briefed called me chairman of the ODS, and that as chairman of the ODS, I should - and these are people who haven't actually read what they're writing, and most importantly, who they're writing to. They just got ten drafts where they changed names, edited and sent. It almost looked like a hired stick in the theater at the applause for something to be said. That's a little peacock, but you know that, because you're pretty good at it, and you're lecturing us, everybody else, how bad the peacock is, and you're doing the good peacock. But there are tiny flaws, and it's worth thinking about, maybe, and specifying things while you're at the mike again. You were talking about important names, you were talking about Professor Beran. I know Professor Beran, and I love him. If you look, my name is under his proposition for state honor. I designed it for state honors for this year because Mr. Beran, Professor Beran, took the first step in the scientific sphere and pointed out the possibilities of generic drugs that are here. It's not my fault he didn't pass the proposal, but I defended him, and I tried to make sure he got the honors. You are not the only one who perceives these things, and there are more people in this room who also communicate and debate with these scientists who have a different opinion than the mainstream view, yet they look at it and yet try to put those opinions together. But I'm not judging others and I'm not trying to dehonest them just because they have a different opinion. Just like those people out there - people out there also have different opinions, I perceive them and I don't disprove them. I present the facts - make your own opinion. And I think that maybe more important than telling them, that's true, that's true, because I think so. It's not like that at all! And now for my performance, which was supposed to end the debate. You spoke of the fact that only Lubomír Volný and his block, sorry, Mr Bojko I would add, in the House you are the ones who defend and call on the Communists to do something and work for the people. But I want to say that members of the KSČM and their sympathizers know very well who Tomáš Vandas is, what is the Workers' Party. Those are the ones who marched with their right hands raised. Those are the ones with SS tattoos on their heads. Those are the ones who yelled Nazi slogans. This is Tomáš Vandas and his company. When we look at his Facebook page, today he's the biggest supporter of the Free Bloc, and I didn't hear that Free Bloc colleagues, who are so thinking about the left, and so they think about left-wing politicians and left-wing voters and left-wing ideas, would distance themselves from it. On the contrary, they applaud everything and let themselves be photographed with them. So, dear citizens, if you know who Tomáš Vandas is, what he's been through and what group he represents, think about what the policy objectives are and what the goals are, the media outputs you hear here. The investigation committee: we declared, and here it was said from our chairman's mouth that the investigation committee for the covideo was not our cup of tea. Not the reasons that have been raised here, because many of the reasons are the ones that we have been repeating here for a year, on this basis we have been criticizing and alerting the Minister of Health and asking for answers. Our people work in committees, and they also demand answers. Hanka Aulická could say ten times here what questions she got from us and passed them on to the minister if she got the answers she gave us. We're trying to make a real policy for these people, so these performances are known. We didn't need the challenge of your supporters, we asked our officials in the districts, in the cities, how they look at the emergency situation. We have made an intra-party referendum, a small word of meaning, because it was not possible because of the covid, but we have obtained a broad idea of the views of our constituents and our members, and we have decided accordingly. We do not need any challenge as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Now, why don't we, and we're looking soberly at the investigation committee of covid from a completely different perspective than you mentioned here. All the things you're pointing at are mostly under criminal charges today. Many things are being investigated by the police because, of course, you are quite rightly referring to the SAO's report, but there are also facts in which police officers are authorized to act and investigate. And now I don't know how the committee, parallel to the investigation of the police and the authorities of the state charged with the investigation, should proceed. I can't imagine the investigators would allow that committee to look into the files or draw on the investigation data. I can't imagine how it would be possible to prevent leaking information from a commission that will learn in this investigation so as not to crash the police investigation, because everyone can imagine that if someone is a suspect in this investigation and gets some information, even if mediated, then of course they'll use it for their defense and try to lead the investigation outside. These are the main reasons why we are worried about the investigation committee outside the time frame, which is also logical, three months really is very few for thousands and thousands of problems that we will have to deal with with covid. But also KSČM at the beginning of the whole case, when the first screams about how everything is wrong and what's going on here, pointed out that only time will come to investigate this, because the cases are huge and only time after the end of the covid, the curtain starts to open and the individual things start to come out. The curtain opens, the SAO's report is the first, let's say the opening, which comes out, but these reports will be considerably more. I already know about the higher education work that focuses on this topic, I already know about others that discuss individual things. I know about the control mechanisms that are starting to run, even at ministries that are involved, they're starting to talk about it, and they're starting to get to the surface of things that can be unpleasant to certain people, and they're going to have to answer them. But that's the way it's supposed to be, isn't it? And nothing will be swept under the carpet, which is clearly promised by the KSČM here, because we have pointed out from the beginning that we cannot agree to sweeping under the carpet of things that affect most citizens of the Czech Republic. That is why I would very much like us to approach this issue correctly. And it's also fair that the petitioners to set up the committee of inquiry tell us all here, and above all, they have the opportunity to say, in order to get to the floor, they have the opportunity to say how they want to ensure that the committee does not intersect, influence and, if necessary, hinder investigations by law enforcement authorities dealing with many of these cases. When they call on someone from the ministry who's also a witness in the case under investigation to say something, it's already a possible bias, it can get into conflict of interest, conflict, it probably won't be able to respond and testify. And the topics that were mentioned here by the petitioner in the examination are so extensive, so wide that I really can't imagine how it would be conceived in reality. If they are not concrete and clear, it may indeed be the same amount of information that we have heard here for two hours now, without real output, merely a statement, a statement, a statement, a statement as they imagine, they represent. But the real information the citizen doesn't really get. [[11.20 hours]] Therefore, if there should be such a thing, take really what we are able to handle in three months, say, this is a specific thing, whether it be imports of drapes, I don't know, but something concrete, tangible for a citizen. And let's say this is the first step that the parliamentary committee of inquiry will take in this parliamentary term, because this term is ending, we have three months to do this, and we will try to get some results. And ideally, it would be a case that has already been investigated by the police, which may not have detected any faults, and we believe that there have been errors. Because this should be the aim of the commission of inquiry, which investigates where the state authorities and others are somehow failing, or have no chance of further savings if such cases are. But you're dealing with this, Mr. Speaker, so I assume you're able to specify the specific assignment of this commission. But in that focus, as the commission has in the assignment, which you quoted at the beginning, it really cannot be supported. The more I am concerned about the fact that in the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Volný, through you, it was said that they would support it, that fellow Members Bojko and the Volný will support the committee of inquiry, which is here on the board against the covid. I'm surprised. Two hours here talks about how unnecessary it is and ultimately supports its establishment. So it's a question. But we, the KSČM, declare here, and declare it yesterday or Tuesday at a press conference that we will not support the establishment of this commission. We will not block it, but we will not support the establishment because we see it as unrealistic in the output unless it is specified and answered by the questions so that conflicts and conflicts within the framework of the investigation are avoided. And we have confidence in the Police of the Czech Republic, we have confidence in the police, and we believe that it is in our common interest, everyone, whether they are policemen, whether they are politicians, whether they are citizens, to get results, because the covid ends slowly and the time comes to settle accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Lubomír Volný will speak. By the time he gets here, I... [[A cleaning worker approaches the site for disinfection.]] After Mr Lubomír the Volné, now it's okay. I'll read the apologies. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes for today's day for personal reasons. Mr Petr Venhoda apologizes on 15. 7. between 11 and 18 until the end of the day due to illness. Mr Ivan Jáč apologizes for health reasons for the whole day. Mr Adam Kalous apologizes today between the 16th and the 19th because of a doctor's visit and Mr Jan Bauer today and tomorrow for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. Why do we support this committee? Because we want to give our colleagues a chance to do the right thing, and at the same time during the Commission, we will apply our public pressure tactics to this committee to do what they should do, just as we have applied it to the KSČM or the SPD to fulfill their program and assign the interests of their constituents over the interests of their party secretariats. The best communist I've ever met in my life was Comrade Teacher Vítězslav Novák. If all communists were like him, we really live in communism and we're beautiful. He was a man who worked thousands of hours a year for a free school. He was always prepared to listen to both sides of the dispute and did not burden himself with any educational methods other than the physical punishment of the culprit on the spot. He was great. Just recently, when he was teaching, he had the moral strength to throw mobile phones out the window for children while playing with them during class. If every communist were... [[The speaker looked on the board.]] Now I don't know how long I've been talking. I'm running out of time here, and I'm sure it doesn't agree. [[He's pointing to the board.]] I'm not good at time here. That time just doesn't agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u21	Time's running out on the board. I'm sorry, zero thirty-nine seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u22	I didn't talk for a minute. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] That's just wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u23	It's not bad. Time's running out on the board. There's zero twenty-seven seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u24	I object because the system doesn't work here. [[It points to the clock in the speaker's desk.]] I'm checking on the system here, and the board didn't answer that time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u25	Okay, so we're going to vote on the objection from the honourable Member that it doesn't correspond to the time given...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u26	I'll check in with tech again when I get there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u27	It's okay. So who's in? [[Checkout request.]] I'll check you all out. Please sign in. We will vote on Mr Volný's objection that the time shown on the board has not been mentioned at the speaker's desk and therefore asks for two more minutes. Please, I have begun the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 3, 96 Members registered, for 13, against 10. The motion was denied. Thank you. So, Mr Jakub Michálek, with a factual remark, will prepare Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor and thank your colleagues for the performance. Of course, I completely understand my colleagues from the Communist Party that they do not want the commission of inquiry interfering with the ongoing investigations of law enforcement authorities. There is no such thing in the proposal as well as in the previous committees of inquiry. It must be said that failure in pandemic times is not the result of the perpetrators of crime. It's not like any criminals conspired and we had to investigate this place, no. It's a system failure. There's no way to deal with this with police work. We want to deal with such things as that if there is finally a remedy in that if there is another wave or any other similar problem, so if there are two teams that will buy medical aids, and everyone will have a different strategy and they will not coordinate, if it is repeated that they will buy very much... that Czech products will not be used but will be purchased from abroad, everything from China and so on, if there is an update of the pandemic plan, as the Supreme Audit Office pointed out. It's all stuff from the Supreme Audit Office's report. So these are things that need to be done at the level of the whole crisis-like management system, to think about it, to see if the government has moved these matters, or to formulate recommendations to make this right, not to substitute specific investigations into police in the case of some criminals, which I would say relatively very, very small share of the pandemic in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. I want to announce that this device that's on the counter doesn't really work at the moment, so the time will be on the board. Is that all right with you? [[Yes.]] Okay. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. I apologize to you, Mr President, I apologize to the House as well, because both fellow pirates and fellow Marian Bojko have confirmed your claim that the time has agreed, so I apologize to you. I was going to say to my teacher that while he was a communist, from you sitting on the left, there isn't a communist, at least I don't see you at all. As far as Mr Vandas is concerned, Mr Vandas has become in history the same aim of misinformation campaigns as any system of inadequate policies. You should have your own experience with these disinformation campaigns as communists, because many communists have a red star tattooed on their soul, and I don't take that the wrong way, they just have it there and they agree with everything that communism means. [[11.30 hours]] I'm not gonna defend either totalitarianism or the one that built the gulags or the one that built the concentration camps, and I think it's pointless to argue about it here. The important thing is that Mr Vandas has become aware of his media position and is not running for the Free Block. People like Ota Zaremba, Olympic winner in socialist Czechoslovakia, and currently a very successful youth coach, a man with no extreme controversy, are running for the Free Block. He's just a guy who did sports with all his heart and soul, and now he's doing that to the youth. We have the DSSS people on the Free Bloc candidate who have repeatedly succeeded in municipal elections, which means that local citizens trust them, and local citizens do not regard them as what Mr Luzar has just said here. Well, last thing, my colleague, absent or through the President, yes, you raised your hand after me. You raised your hand until I applied. If you want to get off normally, you're registered with priority rights or you're registered on the board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek, with a factual remark, and I will ask for the disinfection of the rhetoric. Yes, please. Thank you. [[We're cleaning up the pitch.]] I would like to repeat once again that the device, the timer, doesn't work on the counter, so we'd be following the time that's on the board until the break, and the malfunction will be removed during the break so we don't have to interrupt the meeting. Is there a general agreement, or is there an objection? I can't see, so let's keep going. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to answer some of the questions that were raised in Mr Volný's first speech. He asked in a number of cases which things will be part of the investigative report and whether there will be a mention of this and that and what the committee of inquiry's opinion on this and that. Of course, the members of the committee of inquiry are not elected, no one here is entitled to speak for it, and there is no way to say what will be in the report, because it depends on the committee. This resolution is merely that the commission of inquiry is set up and in Article 4 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. II's tasks are assigned to her. The Commission will, of course, carry out all the necessary evidence, answer all the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on the recommendation on points A, B, C, D and so on and prepare its conclusions accordingly. And if you think that something else should be mentioned there, it will be possible in the context of a detailed debate to read an amendment extending the task of the commission of inquiry to another point. Thank you for your attention. Otherwise, of course, I support - there is no reason for the committee of inquiry not to be public, but that is my personal opinion and whether or not the negotiations will be public, the committee of inquiry will decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u33	With a factual remark from Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u34	I thank President Michálek, through Mr President, for his explanation. However, as a translator's representative, I'm sure you have some kind of framework idea of what you want to discuss there. So I asked you as the person behind the proposal. I'm sure you guys have discussed at least what you'd like to discuss at your Pirate Club, so answering these questions wouldn't have to be a problem for you at least from the point of view, if you, as a representative of the pirate party, which you're probably going to be on that committee, I can only speculate, or if you have any other representative chosen there, you could definitely answer from the Pirate Party's point of view, whether the individual points I was talking about would be proposed at the committee's meeting or not. And just the same, any member of any party who has signed up for the motion and supported the commission's summons could speak. It's clear that you can't speak for a committee that doesn't exist right now, but I'm sure they already have people who should go to that committee, and they could give us their opinion or their opinion on the proposals I've presented here. I'm sure there's nothing wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to disinfect the larceny. I will read the apologies: Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologizes today between 11 and 12 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes today from 13 o'clock to the end of the day for family reasons, and Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises today from nine to the end of the meeting for personal reasons, i.e. for the whole day of the hearing. Mr Milan Feranec will speak in the debate. Thank you. [[The cleaning guy.]] And, Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly not speak for as long as my colleague Volný, rather I want to focus on the individual tasks we want to entrust to this committee. At the beginning, we can certainly agree that the pandemic was a huge crisis or a huge crisis - a health, social, economic crisis, and it is always good to evaluate the crisis. Yeah, and look out! The crisis of procedures that we were used to responding to - suddenly we were ahead of completely new situations. And I'm sure it's a good thing if we try to draw some lessons and set those procedures a little differently in the future. I'm sure I agree with that. When I look at the task of the commission of inquiry: "II. A. Examine the following problematic areas in solving pandemic covid in the Czech Republic," and now there are points, which I wanted to stop by: "Purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material." As far as I know, the SAO report has been processed, I don't know how long it took, six months, three quarters of a year, a police investigation is underway. I can't quite imagine what the committee of inquiry will bring into this if it doesn't want to interfere with the investigation, which is clear that it isn't possible at all. Is he going to repeat the SAO's conclusions? But it's okay. The next item is "to examine the procedures for the adoption of antiepidemic measures by the Czech Government, including a large number of decisions that have been repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court as illegal'. That's what I wanted to stop by. The overwhelming majority of the measures that were repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court were adopted on the basis of the pandemic law and subsequently the Public Health Protection Act. And how did the pandemic law come into being? It was based essentially on opposition pressure, which is fine, and there was nothing that didn't go through the opposition, nothing, on the contrary, certain things got out of it, because otherwise there would be a risk of blocking it. Yes, we can perhaps learn from this if the pandemic law in the light of the Supreme Administrative Court's decision is sufficient if we are to adjust it. But it's really a professional legal debate. Then there's the task of "checking the causes of record school closure time." Well, then what were the causes? Perhaps the causes were that epidemiologists at the time considered the operation of schools a risk. Of course, we can examine in detail when the measure arose, the number of infected children or family members, but this is about collecting huge amounts of information. We can compare it to other countries that had a slightly different approach, and whether that approach was better or worse. It's a long-term ant job again. [[11.40 hours]] Then there is the task of examining the procedures for taking measures, the competence of the economic sector - I draw attention to the corrections, there has a press error, only to adjust - including support programs. I just want to say, I don't think the work of a commission that deals with economic support, as far as I know. This is the committee chaired by Mr Stanjura. We've been briefed on some sort of interim report, but I don't think it's over yet. But what is important is that all economic measures or economic support were created in the House. There has always been a legal basis, actually the House's legislative measures, but different programmes have been announced on this basis. And now I think of the past, as we accepted it - the bonus, the first one. It was adjusted, of course, also adjusted on the basis of the debate in the House, on the basis of the committee, and various measures - the cessation of loan payments and so on. So what I'm saying is, these procedures were created here. Yes, it was sometimes an attempt - a mistake, but that's how it is in a crisis. So if we're going to deal with the procedure of law adoption in the House, we can. Then there is the point "to check the awareness of the population and the fight against public health-threatening misinformation." Those misinformations, as they were in society, also took place here in the House, from extreme types of "patients get murdered" to other types. So let's remember how there was a protest against the abolition of the biathlon against the ban on flights to northern Italy. The social debate was exactly the same as it was in the House, and sometimes the House fed various misinformations. What is important is, then, under the letter B: "to gather" - a commission's task - "to gather technical, objective and independent evidence, analyses and opinions on the areas of difficulty, with the help of an impartial expert investigation team, established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act." Again: it's certainly a good thing, but it's a job for - if we have an investigation team, there will be lawyers, health professionals, economists - it really is an ant job that will take some time. What is important is C - evaluate the legality, meaningfulness, efficiency and professional approach in deciding on individual problematic areas. Until now, I have thought that the law of legality, lawlessness can only be decided by the court, but so be it, the commission will decide. But our legal order is based on the fact that the court decides the legality of any measure. But the Commission's most important task is under the letter D - 'to propose systemic changes and recommendations that will allow the pandemic to minimise damage, prevent unprofessional and illegal decisions, and ensure the highest possible support for security infrastructure, health care, education system and other key elements of the state. I think this is the most important thing. What lessons we want to learn and - and this is really supposed to be some debate, a big social one, I repeat, lawyers, doctors, economists, public administrations - and we, these are huge tasks for the committee, huge. And how are we gonna make it to September 14th at 2021? Two months, it's not three. It's been two months, that's what a month is. I understand that the members of the committee will be working as bees, not going on vacation, depending on their participation today in It doesn't look like the House, but I don't believe that such a huge task can be accomplished in two months, it's really a month. I don't believe it. Either we want to have objective conclusions, and then let's take the time to invite all possible experts to do so, or it's a political piár. And from my point of view, the way those tasks are set and the term, I say for myself that it is a political piár, that the purpose is to set up a political investigative committee that will give some conclusions before the elections. That's the point, and I'm sorry, but I can't vote for setting up a committee like that. It's the demosation of the problem, it's the demosation of the House's work and the investigation committee. It's pure pie. Only assuming - and perhaps so - that the report is already finished, that it is already written, that the plaintiff has already written the report, he already knows how it will turn out, then it gives political logic, but not factual and not professional. So in my opinion, I do not really want to vote in favour of setting up a political committee of inquiry as an instrument in the fire of the elections in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u37	In fact, Mr Milan Brázdil is reporting. Then with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond to the previous speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that I am not an emergency medicine worker, a paramedic, but an almighty. I know everything, I know everything, I can read minds. And I'm asking that somebody... that we're not agreed on -- maybe Mrs. Stenographer here to say a number from one to five. And she says to me, number one. Or number five? Maybe five. He says number five. Imagine, I guessed! So it seems so pointless to me that at the moment, when we know so little, we're investigating and discussing pandemics and investigating what we've been discussing here. I'm not for that committee, and in that absurdity, I wanted to show you that it's just nonsense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek is still on the list with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. I will, of course, make myself even more clear, but I just wanted to say: it was said here that the tasks that are defined there are essentially good. I will then comment in detail on the individual parts, but we proposed setting up an investigation committee in May 2020. At the time it was said that it would not be established because of this - there were emotional speeches - that it had to be investigated by the SAO, that it had to wait for the SAO. Then we wanted to set up an investigation committee in the fall. And then we all know that there was a health crisis, so the government begged us not to set up an investigation committee to wait a while. Well, here we are again with the investigation committee, and now there's another reason for the election. So it seems to me that they're just looking for more and more excuses to postpone it for what reason. And if it really isn't willing for the commission to come into existence here, of course, the YES movement probably has votes for it, along with the communists here in the Chamber of Deputies, you'll block it, there won't be a commission of inquiry, but I'm terrified of what will happen next in the fall, because last June we warned here about the second wave, and those measures haven't been taken anyway. And now, again in the fall, there will be another crisis, it will happen again, and then there will be other emotional speeches that will prevent it from really being dealt with. So I think that the fact that this is going to be blocked will only damage the population of the Czech Republic in the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u41	With a factual remark, Mr Lubomír Volný will speak further. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u42	I usually blame this theater for the SPD submitting a proposal so it won't be approved, so they can cry for four years that someone didn't approve their proposal, because that's the whole point of the SPD's political work. However, I will have to extend it to the pirát, because the pirát are proposing proposals that they know will not be approved, just so they can design them and tell their constituents. If you wanted this committee of inquiry to be created here, if you really wanted it, you'd force it the way you forced the Council of Czech Television not to. You're capable in opposition, you can argue, you can construct, you can use all the possibilities that the law gives you to enforce some of these things. And you've forced a relatively large number of them. I must admit that, as an opposition club, you were probably the most active and you pushed the most and you managed to force the most out of your programs. Through Mr President, Jarda, you don't have to react, you're basically not an espedic yet. [[Mr Foldyn, who signed up for the debate.]] To go back to the pirát, just if you'd done a good job with the opposition, that committee of inquiry would have been created, it would have been here, and it would have worked. And the second part of your act: if the Free Block isn't a government party and it doesn't bear government responsibility, the fourth wave will be here, and you all know it. The whole Republic knows. The whole Republic is just thinking about how the vaccine is gonna fit the unscathed. There's nothing else to think about and how deep it's gonna go with the lockdown. But you're all counting on that lockdown to be and that it's gonna be tougher than the last one. You're counting on a division of society, you're counting on huge problems and huge riots to break out here. The government wants to segregate the children, to separate them from the gypsy-Jewish corner, the black one somewhere in the corner of the dining room and the special gypsy-Jewish toilet. [[Time.]] This is what this government is planning through the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping time. President Michálek with a factual remark or a debate? In the debate, so Mr Foldyna with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to educate my colleague. I like to listen to him, it's always interesting, such a televarieté. Of course, an opposition party that does not have a majority in Parliament when it presents a proposal so it presents it and it is a vabank whether it is accepted or not. It's perfectly normal. So the comment was irrelevant. I like watching televariets, and that's it, Luboš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u45	I'm sorry. I didn't turn on time, but I'm sure you fit into actual time. Mrs Helena Válková, with a factual remark and with priority rights, will then speak with President Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I hate to get ahead of myself, but right now I really can't but respond to the wrong dictionary. As Human Rights Commissioner for such turnovers as Jewish-Gypsy, and now I don't know, and I'd rather not hear what happened next, I'm definitely leaving. Even if you're protected by indemnity, I'm resisting you expressing yourself in this defensive way about some of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u47	Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u48	Through Mr President, as Human Rights Commissioner, you should know that there has historically been a segregation of the Jewish and Gypsy population, and that your government is also planning the segregation of vaccinated and unvacated children, when the Minister of Health or Education, I apologize, but I think the health sector is declaring that unvacated children will have their corners in the dining room and that they will have their toilets. So it doesn't matter whether I use Jewish-Gypsy or not, it's the same discrimination, even though ethnicity doesn't matter here. And I used it on purpose to make people like you hypocrites catch themselves and finally realize what you're planning here. You're planning apartheid at the level of Jewish stars, at the level of racial segregation in South Africa, because now that you're planning special places for children in the dining room and special toilets, that untested or untested children will have to wear drapes at school, that's exactly the same as segreging them on the basis of national principle. You're making apartheid here, and you're about to introduce something that contradicts human rights, and you're a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u49	I have two more factual points here. I'd like us not to escalate the debate because it's not going anywhere. The first is Mr David Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be so short. I just wanted to say that such measures are also taken for salmonella, for other diarrhea diseases and other things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u52	Just one sentence. I think that if a colleague continues like this, he will probably achieve his intention that some people will leave this House, even though the issue of his own is certainly interesting, which we are dealing with here, but with the expressions that are used here, it will probably trigger the need for certain colleagues to leave the Chamber, which I am very sorry about, but here in the microphone I say I am not used to it and I will not get used to it, at my age certainly not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u54	Thanks for the word. I wanted to stand up for my colleagues in the ANO movement that it really isn't right to falsely accuse someone of crimes like that. I don't think it should be heard here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies at all. And I don't know what your motivation is for acting like this. You may need to get into the media to get a state contribution and 10,000 000 in elections, but I don't think you should do this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Member Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. To think, through Mr President, both of my previous speakers are free to leave, free to be here, that is just their choice. And that's exactly what I understand as a free-minded Democrat, unlike you. You'd like to forbid me from using words. Who do you think you are? You are one of the 200 Members, so act accordingly and do not try to silence your colleague. And this is my colleague. I don't know why the pirát were born. They certainly did not come for the good of the Czech Republic, but rather for the well-being of someone who gives them instructions from the foreign center, because you want to deprive the Czech Republic of the right of veto in the European Parliament. You guys are just foreign agents, and you're gonna tell me something here that I want to get a percentage. I want to take the Free Block to government responsibility after these elections and abolish the covid crisis in the Czech Republic, because when we have the government's responsibility - goodbye, my colleague - we will go the Swedish, Finnish and Norwegian routes and save tens of thousands of lives for the citizens of this country. [[A Member of the War who is leaving the hall.]] We can save them very simply by not stopping them from breathing freely, by introducing the right primary care, by introducing preventive care. These people won't get sick at all, and if they get sick, they'll be cured with the initial symptoms. And we will also prevent, or at least try to prevent, the division of society into vaccinated and not vaccinated, which is exactly the same as when society was split into white and black, to Jews and non-Jewish, to communists and fascists. It's the exact same split. The moment you give benefits to one category, you cut back on the other. And your argument with dysentery and similar diseases is pointless because there were never healthy children in that corner. And you want to put healthy children there who have no clinical signs of disease. You want to put healthy children there for disobedience, for not having their parents vaccinated or tested them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u57	I would ask that we try to be polite to each other, not to be offended, not to say words that are not entirely appropriate, and to try to express ourselves in some elementary manner on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. This applies to all Members in this Chamber. And I'd like us not to have this debate. We're coming to a conclusion. Mrs Hyťhová will have two minutes to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Yes, you can disinfect this place after me. [[Response to a note in the hall.]] I didn't want to comment on that, but since we've had this kind of discussion here, I'm going to make a brief statement. Only when I saw that there would be a committee of inquiry to deal with the pandemic covid, so I had to laugh really, because I don't think that this committee of experts - or Members who are experts in everything, always and everywhere, as we see here in the House - would have solved anything if our government hadn't solved it. Our experts don't agree on the solution, and now I mean doctors' experts, I don't mean experts here in the House, but if our doctors' experts don't agree on it, then for God's sake, what do you want to deal with here? Can you tell me what's gonna work out here? [[12.00 hours]] And I would also like to comment on the children that have been said here, because that is really the subject. And I have to agree with my colleague Volný in this, because what really happens here, and that Minister Adam Vojtěch and the government are about to divide the children in schools since September, that the child that the parent doesn't inoculate, that he will actually sit somewhere in the back desk, will have to sit alone at lunch, a healthy child who has no disease, is nothing to him, so you divide society and discriminate, dear friends, children! Kids who aren't to blame. And if anyone is responsible, it's you, dear friends, and the government. And I believe that one day you'll be responsible for this, because this thing that's going on here really isn't normal. Yes, you can lock us up here in lockdowns and split up the company of all of us, we can handle it. But those kids, they're gonna carry it for the rest of their lives. And that, dear friends, is really the highlight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Tomio Okamura will speak further. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has repeatedly requested the abolition of the pandemic emergency. That is why, today, we will once again propose that we vote on the resolution from the SPD to abolish the pandemic emergency, so today it will be point 3. In the long term, we reject the general government measures, which should also apply during holidays and holidays. We are simply reminding that we, as the only MP, voted against the adoption of the so-called pandemic law. In addition, during the period from 14 April to the end of June, the Supreme Administrative Court exercised its powers and stated the legality of an emergency measure by the Ministry of Health 24 times in total. Just by chance, it was, for example, the lawlessness of closing restaurants, the lawlessness of closing parent, primary and secondary schools, the lawlessness of closing service facilities, the unjustified ban on lifts, cable cars or the unjustified testing of civil servants. Therefore, for these reasons, the SPD is refusing to continue to have a pandemic emergency in the Czech Republic that needs to be canceled, and this is also related to the other proposed measures proposed by the government in both schools and elsewhere, since September, since autumn. An example of how to do this can be for us the United Kingdom, which, despite growing numbers due to delta mutation, has been abolishing all measures since 19 July and putting pandemics at the same level as the common flu. From this date, wearing duvets and respirators in the UK is to be a voluntary decision of individuals only. We believe there's a way through here. For the SPD, we say long-term - let's fight the virus, not the people. We want a normal life for our children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u61	I thank you and Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. It's unbelievable, but I've been eating it for three years, too. And the fact is, that's why I'm in the Chamber of Deputies because I trusted him with his bullshit. When someone comes here to record a two-minute video because their MPs have nothing to say, that's exactly the kind of job I'm not in the SPD for. However, I have now stepped out to appeal to all the educators here in the House and to all the parents. I don't have a lot of classes. I'm done working with a sympathetic and unlikable pupil, I've been through Theory and the dynamics of bullying, then I'm done with what it was called... Well, it doesn't matter, I can't even remember, so I should return the paper. But I do know one thing. Kids are the greatest gift. Your children are the greatest gift you love, you love him, you would do anything for him, you would sacrifice yourself terribly, when you're good parents, so you control such hard love, tough love - now I can't accommodate you because you're soft or spoiled. But even our children change in a dramatic way in the group of other children, even the most beloved children can turn into aggressors, and child cruelty is the greatest cruelty in the world. Grown people can't be as cruel to each other as kids can be when they're in the crowd. And if we divide society into vaccinated and tested and untested children, then our schools will be catastrophic and in the finals of the blood scene. That can't happen. That we're separated, okay. So we're adults, we're entitled to be stupid. But if we split up the kids and put some of them in a corner, the other kids will eat them alive. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u63	Mr. Jan Chvojka will now speak with priority rights as Chairman of the ČSSD Club and then is prepared with priority right by the President of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I wanted to appeal to your predecessor, Mr Hanzel, that he would never say that he would prepare himself or that President Chvojka was in line, because I was in line, in the end I prepared for about an hour until I almost forgot what to say, because the shrink of factual remarks sometimes does not have logic and it almost needs to be thought about whether they have any meaning in the Rules of Procedure or not, because it comes to me when we focus on it, it does not make sense, it just serves for some political presentation, and no, what it has to do. But it's just on the edge. On behalf of the ČSSD MP, on behalf of the party itself, I'm just going to repeat what I said at Tuesday's press conference. She's got two lines to set up a committee of inquiry. The first one is that we, like the ČSSD, are not ashamed of the functioning of ministries that we have in our country and which are struggling and struggling with the covid, that is, in particular, for the Ministry of the Interior and for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So we are not afraid of setting up a committee of inquiry, we are not afraid of it, and for that reason we will support the committee of inquiry, or we will support its establishment. We also have a nominee for this committee of inquiry, who is a colleague, respected by Dr. Jiří Běhounek, at least an expert in health care and matters related to it, so we will support the committee. I repeat, we have nothing to be ashamed of, nothing to worry about. Then there's the other line that some of my colleagues said before me. I have to agree with this as a person who has been sitting here for some time, that there have been various committees of inquiry over the years, when I look into the past, few that were created two and a half months before the elections, often occurred at the beginning of the term of office. They have rarely - or almost ever - investigated anything. So the question is whether the committee of inquiry we're going to set up today means July 15th, she's able to find out something by October 8th, discuss something, take care of something, find out something crucial so that the results that the committee is supposed to have have had some relevance. So that's the second question. It is, of course, a question of how the committee will work, whether it will be meeting at the time of July, the rest that awaits us, August and September, really intensely, permanently maybe several times a week, or there will be a couple of meetings, and there really can't be found out and can't discuss anything at all. So the résumé - we support the committee, second of all, but the question is whether it can evaluate anything relevant in that short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u65	Mr. Jakub Michálek, with priority right, and then Mr. Hájek, reporting from his post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. Since the previous speakers asked me to come forward and comment on some parts of the motion for a resolution, I would add a few facts. First of all, point (a) defines the mandate of the commission of inquiry to examine the facts relating to the purchase and distribution of protective equipment and other medical material. Within this point, it is possible for the Commission to focus, for example, on the purchase of vaccines, including the level of coordination at European Union level. And because we know that there has been a delay, for example, in comparison with the UK or the United States, and although of course the Czech Republic is only one country of the European Union, and we cannot say that there are absolutely fundamental changes as we would have imagined, it is certainly good to name the issues and propose adjustments that would lead to the Czech Government's recommendations on how to promote greater action in the purchase of vaccines for the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[12.10 hours]] Of course, it can also address the issues of medicines, the acquisition of medical material, its distribution in the Czech Republic and supplies within the State Administration of Material Reserves, which have proved to be inadequate and that there has, say, been no factual review of those requirements, but that only those applications that were historically there have been formally repeated. The question of Czech suppliers of medical aids falls into this, too, but I think that prioritization should be carried out by the Commission itself, to say at the beginning which are the most important of the topics, and to address them in such a way as to deliver their appearance to the Chamber of Deputies within the time limit that the Chamber of Deputies will impose on it. In the second point - the procedure for the adoption of antiepidemic measures by the Government of the Czech Republic, including a large number of decisions that have been repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court as illegal - it is necessary, in particular, to determine the factual procedure by which antiepidemic measures were taken, or what department was in charge of how the comments worked there. Of course, it must be taken into account that the reaction had to be very rapid within the pandemic in all cases, because there is this exponential growth, so it is not about requiring any over-rigidity, but it is about looking at how the expert team worked at the level of the Ministry, or other institutions that participated in it, whether it was adequately drawn up, whether there are any recommendations for adjustment to make it work better, and in particular focus on the way in which legal control was carried out, or impeccable from the point of view of legislation, because it turned out that some of the measures had been repealed as illegal. And since I have pointed out several times with the Minister and Deputy Minister Policar in the preparation of the pandemic law that if only a restriction is written there, it will result in the courts interpreting it and contrario against those other items where the ban was envisaged as a mere restriction and that it will not be possible to use it for closing. And they actually used it to appeal to it, to the provisions of the pandemic law in closing trades. So there had to be some sort of control by the legal departments, and it is necessary to figure out why there was no capture of these cases. It is a serious matter, because, of course, the illegal measures will generate claims from damaged entities who will claim compensation against the State which was caused by an illegal official procedure, and the damage in evidence will be much more difficult for the State to prove that it has not erred than if only the provisions of the pandemic law, where the State is paying the real damage and so on, and it is not possible to bear all the burden of damage. So now, as the Czech Republic, we are in a significantly less comfortable situation when it comes to our position in litigation and claims for damages resulting from the violation of the pandemic law. So these are the issues that will be thought over within the other circle. Of course, there will be a question of the type to be dealt with as to why there was no justification for some measures, although the matter has been held against the government several times, and the problem is not in the pandemic law itself. The only problem is that the Ministry repeatedly exceeded its powers under the pandemic law and did not mention the essentials that were supposed to be there. Within the third point - the causes of record school closure - it is certainly necessary to look at the way in which it was evaluated or monitored at the Ministry of Health, or at the government the level of risk associated with different activities, and the overall impact on the functioning of the society, and how the government prioritized the segments to bear the greatest sacrifice in the framework of the solution of the pandemic, and if there is really any reasonable, logical reasoning on the basis of which schools were chosen, it can be acceptable, but if schools were chosen purely because children cannot defend themselves, it certainly was not reasonable. Within that last point - procedures for taking measures to assist the economic sector, including support programmes - I do not think it is entirely logical to focus on the approval of laws. It is clear that, to some extent, improvisation was necessary, but there is also a need to look at the programmes that have been passed under those laws, and it is possible to come out of the commission which has already been set up and which has dealt with some of these issues. Within the last heading - ensuring awareness of the population and combating health-threatening disinformation - there I think it is also appropriate to address the issues of how public debate was actually conducted within the Chamber of Deputies. This is because we all know how different media waves are created, on which political actors are driven in their electoral campaigns, and that this can be abused, and the dynamics of this process. In what way it affected it, it would probably also be desirable to consider this within the framework of the evaluation of the commission of inquiry, and if the commission of inquiry can be found by experts on this subject, I believe that there may be a majority for some conclusion or recommendations that may result from this, in order to avoid some hasty conclusions, such as the various protests in closing down some of the actions that, of course, were appropriate at the moment. I agree with what Mr Feranec said that he will require really ant work to carry out the tasks set out in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, but at the same time I recall what was written by one of the English lords who was in charge of processing something like SAO reports in the UK, and it always took a year to two years to process and deliver the report. And when they asked the Lord how long it took him until their commission reached 90 percent of what they wanted to find out, he told them that it took about one to two months to get 90 percent of the necessary information to make judgment. All the remaining time is then the wording, the preparation of the text and so on. I think that the pandemic has taught us that improvisation is necessary in some areas, that there is a need to react quickly. Of course, there may be mistakes, and if we have exponential growth, there is really no way to connect any activities with this, that we will discuss nothing for three months, and then prepare a sophisticated report and we will discuss it for two years. We really would lose to pandemics, and we can't do that. And if we are putting this requirement on the government, I think that we should put it to some extent, albeit smaller, on the authorities of the Chamber of Deputies and the Commission of inquiry, so that it comes in some relatively short time with at least partial conclusions from which it can be learned, so we will be able to do so before autumn. So that's why the deadline is set as it is set, and if that time turns out to be insufficient, it's possible to extend it or, if necessary, set it up for the next parliamentary term. But I would really prefer that the recommendations that are proposed under point (d) where the commission of inquiry is to propose systemic changes and recommendations that will allow the damage to be minimized during the pandemic period and so on, so that the recommendations are formulated at a time when the government can still take them into account in its policy, and not to come up with a cross after a funeral, when it will no longer be useful for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u67	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak with a factual remark and will then be prepared in the general debate by Mr Hájek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. I would like to ask my previous speaker as part of his last performance, I believe, that was the last point, once again we run into the misinformation and the feats and hoaxes, because during that year and a half there was a lot of information that was referred to as misinformation and hoaxes in essence then adopted as true information, such as the dangers of vaccines. We have information from the Health Department that Astrazeneca's vaccination of people under the age of 60 is dangerous. At first, it was claimed that all the vaccines were safe, that they were great and that they were almost 100% effective. Well, it turns out that we critics who claimed that these are commercial lies that are supposed to cause people to feel false that vaccination poses no risk, first and second, that it protects against the death of a covid. Well, it doesn't, because Astrazeneca isn't supposed to inoculate people under the age of 60 because it threatens their lives directly, in Mr Prymula's words, that at least some vaccines are just dangerous for some groups. When we said that a year ago, a year and a half ago, we were disinformers. So how's this investigation committee of yours gonna assess who's spreading this misinformation now that we don't know the truth for another year or a year and a half? Likewise, who will decide whether Professor Beran is a disinformer or an informant when he presents his information on how he successfully treated with Isoprinosin? [[With laughter.]] Would you please explain this to me, Mr President? On what basis will your investigative commission assess at that last point whether this is misinformation or the truth? [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u69	Mr Josef Hájek will now appear and report to the general debate, so far as the last application is made, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u70	Mr President, fellow Members, I have here a motion for a resolution which has been drawn up to that point, I have read it and I do not know who processed it, whether Mr Michálek, through Mr President, or someone, but if someone had given me such a piece of paper on the shaft, I will send it out because they probably do not appreciate being able to work on the surface. So I want to ask you, where is point III, please? I miss point III, so the motion for a resolution is, from my point of view, inadequate. That's one. Secondly, the commission should be apolitical, at least I think, or that's his face, because the proposal is that there be a parity method, a parity method of choice, that means that every MP club should nominate one member. And since we have six non-attached Members here, which is the same number as STAN Members, I think from my point of view that they too deserve to have a representative on this possible committee of inquiry. So I have modified the resolution in some way, and then I will make it available to the President here so that we can discuss it. So when I say that the proposal should be apolitical, when I look at it, some of the expressions or words here are evoke that it doesn't have a political face. This means, when I look at point (a), I read: "Progresses in the adoption of counterepidemiological measures by the government of the Czech Republic, including a high number of decisions." What's a high number of decisions? I suggest that we analyse those decisions that have been annulled by the Supreme Administrative Court as illegal. How can you evoke that it was a high number? It's 10, 100, is it 1,000? Do you have any comparisons? In my view, this motion for a resolution really must be apolitical. Second, the causes of record school closure. What is record time? During World War II, universities were closed for several years. I consider that a record period. Here I think it's been a long time, but not record. So I suggest we limit it only to the causes of school closure. In point (b), there is - and I would also like to explain - 'to gather expert objective and independent evidence'. What is independent evidence? Does that mean the D.O.D. gives addicts? Who will give it or guarantee it independently? And so on. With the help of an impartial expert investigation team set up in court with a paragraph, that is paragraph of the Rules of Procedure here. I know, they're gonna be here, what, Swiss investigators? Or from Austria? Who will be the impartial one? I'm... I'll get back to it after... Well, at point (d) you're already predicting that there were unprofessional and illegal decisions. That means, how can you predict that she was there now... that the committee would prevent an unprofessional and illegal decision? It just doesn't belong there from my point of view. Second thing. I worked here with Mr. Černohorský for a year and a half. Mr Michálek, through the President, a year and a half in the OKD Committee of Investigation, so I know what I'm talking about. The investigation committee is almost defenseless. Mr. Bakala can tell you about this or our efforts to summon Mr. Bakala. He laughed at us for a year, he laughed at us for a year! Now he's here, he's given scholarships to the students, and he's gone smiling again. So that's one picture or a pebble of the mosaic that our commission has competence. We've really been doing this. He's here, I think, Mr. Klaus. He came out, he didn't come out - he's here, Václav. We went head-to-head, we spent the whole summer here, all summer, that means July, August, I guess it was in 2018, and it still took us a year and a half. How can you guarantee that you will actually be in depth, in detail - to me here some analysis of the Lord of England, who made it 90 percent: we are not in England, we are in the Czech Republic, the Ministry will have leave, you will call, he will apologize. My experience is: who has butter on his head doesn't say anything. Whoever has butter on his head either apologizes or doesn't remember. You're not investigating anything. You will, like our commission, draw only from written materials, and that's work, that's work for months, maybe a year, a year and a half. Then a colleague of Černohorský can give you the database that accounts for tens of thousands, tens of thousands of pages. So from my point of view, there really is a very small space, and from that small space, I have no guarantee that the commission will work objectively, because time is relentless. You guys set the deadline on September 14th, and I just don't believe that date. On that basis, I will abstain from this vote because I cannot vote in favour of something that I am not convinced will work. So I, please, will then hand over the draft of the amendment to your proposal, and I would like to ask for a statement on where point III is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u71	Then I will ask you to read the motion for a resolution so that you can make your views known in a detailed debate. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now be given the floor, and Mr Martin Kolovratník has a request to speak. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. When he started this week and we started discussing a program at the club for this week and preparation for this meeting, I basically asked on the basis of those X points that are here, what's the point, this meeting, which is, although I understand Thursday as the day of the interpelation, is such a day. You'll see tomorrow morning when the meeting starts here at 9:00 p.m., how we're gonna get ahead of ourselves here for an hour, who's gonna make it to the end of the day to approve, and then we'll be at 10:30, 10:30 p.m., watching that we've only got three hours or four hours left, and we're gonna find out that we didn't actually do anything again, or we're gonna have a fight, and eventually somebody's gonna go out again. So I myself said it was a wasted time parade for me today, and I was wondering if it was worth going to a meeting like this. I'm paid for it, so I'm here, and I'm having a lost time parade here, just like you guys who didn't have the need to apologize, like the other 90 or 86 colleagues who are... at this time they are not logged in, that is, most of them are excused and spend this time perhaps more meaningfully. So the lost time parade and three and a half hours of this ongoing discussion just confirms it so far. I do not know why an extraordinary meeting, and the point of the agreement between the Czech Republic and Finland, what is so very important that we are calling an emergency meeting for this. I was also one of the six who had the courage to vote against the agenda for this meeting because I thought that here, colleagues, even under the heat, you still have common sense, and we're going to want to do something normal, but mostly you approved the meeting including the program, so now we're all eating it together. [[12.30 hours]] The opinion of the KSČM club was essentially presented by Vice-President Leo Luzar, but also by the chair of our political party, but let me remind you of some things, because what a fellow Volný showed, he simply cannot leave me in peace, because I understand that his targeted pressures on the so-called KSČM and SPD voters and those hundreds and thousands of unsolicited emails, when his fans are not even able to complete the things that he is going to write to them, or their piárists will write to change or address whether they address communists or colleagues from the SPD. So where they were supposed to fill in the page, it said "attach the side, the political one you're writing," but they weren't even able to do it. Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V, tops forward, that's the level of some message forwarders. Unfortunately, Luboš, this isn't going well, and the only thing that's there is that I'm gonna do a big block and 240 messages, because it's a waste of time for me to read 240 messages. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to do something that I need to do sometimes, so if someone wants to send me something, I'd rather send him an e-mail than the psp behind the wheel. But let me summarize some things, because the untruths and targeted untruths and targeted attacks on the KSČM simply cannot leave me in peace. So it's the highest emergency state and the KSČM. You know, with the club's position, I have always acted as a member of the Central Crisis Staff, and I have said what are the reasons why the KSČM club either supports or does not support the extension of the emergency and the state of what was. I would like to remind myself of the three basic things that we have talked about. The emergency situation that we prolonged had three basic criteria why we supported it. It was that it allowed the government the order of work, the order of work for students, it simply couldn't have been done without an emergency. And take how many students, medics, and paramedics have been ordered to work and work in medical facilities when it was the worst condition. I have repeatedly said - and you all know it - that without an emergency, the order of work for medics and paramedics simply could not be. Then it flipped over, and these people were already volunteering, and they were getting together with DPČ, DPP, or I just don't know what else, and it just wasn't necessary anymore, so we moved on. But we've moved on four to five months at some point. The second point, when it did not go without emergency conditions, at least in the first stage before we knew the legislative framework, was the deployment of forces and resources of the Army of the Czech Republic. And all of you here have always thanked - thank you to the army - that the army is doing something, even though it was only 400, 600 members of the armed forces of the Czech Republic and a few pieces of technicians, unlike those tens, hundreds and thousands of firemen, whether professional or voluntary, and I prefer not to talk about police officers because they did the most with those firemen. But we all thanked the soldiers in the first place, because it's important. A colleague across from me has the truth, that, of course, the Medical Rescue Service, which was on the front line and who ate it most of all. So without an emergency, we could not give the forces and resources of the Army of the Czech Republic. And do you remember when the Minister of the Interior blew at the speaker's counter: If you don't prolong the emergency situation, tomorrow we'll pull the soldiers down and just collapse in health care, in social services, and I don't know where they were deployed so that the Secretary of Defense would get off Metnar next day and say, "Well, even if the emergency situation isn't, we can somehow make it happen, those soldiers aren't going anywhere. And we, as a club of the KSČM, wanted to have a clear position and we acted here both on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and on the Office of the Government, and everywhere else and wanted a legal analysis of the deployment of forces and funds of the Army of the Czech Republic outside the emergency state. Unfortunately, whether the Prime Minister or anyone else can promise anything, he's not gonna keep anything. But we have tried one step at a time to get the government to give us these opinions so that we can decide whether we will continue to tolerate or support the emergency situation. And then it was those purchases for the State Material Reserves Administration. I knew there was nothing there. You, SPD colleagues, your deputy, had an ODS there, a fellow People's Party. Or we're still there, sometimes there's a meeting going on, so we had the information. Do you remember when we three Vice-Presidents of the Security Committee who dealt with this - and originally was signed by the Chairman of the Security Committee, who then, under pressure from his political party, took the signature back - and we voted here to allow purchase for the State Material Reserves Administration and we did it in the 90s? Remember? All of us here voted in favour, and there wasn't a single MP who would have voted against it then. He wasn't the only one against it. It went to the Senate, that's where my fellow senators got hold of it. When it came here and we had to overrule it, to my surprise, the entire SPD is no longer voting for it, because it was no longer necessary, the right-hand side of the opposition is no longer needed and so on, so you buried it. So the purchases for the State Material Reserve Administration, when you want to deal with it, when the fourth, fifth, or whatever wave you're going to do, you can say, "Yes, we're the ones who didn't let them do it, who we told you, you have exceptions here in the law, and you can do it." You have the butter on your head, because you didn't vote for it. Do you remember when I got here and I said the requirements of the KSČM - and that was in January - and we were the first to say that based on our expert analyses, based on foreign studies and comparison, we said that we wanted this government to return the children of the first grade to schools? Do you remember when I was performing here and I said that based on our professional studies, there are no opinions that there would be an outbreak in free sports areas when we were promoting open sports, outdoor sports, whether it's skiing or whether it was, I don't know, skating or whatever? Do you remember when we said that here? This government promised us what we wanted, because you extend, and we promise, we promise you anything. We promised, we voted, then they showed us the middle finger or the bare ass. That's the way it was, but it just couldn't go on. So then you all came up at once with the request of the children to return to school. Well, that was a superbomb when the communists told you to, so you all rushed along with it as you wanted the kids to go to school. But we were the first ones here to push it through the government, and we said, "Do you have no proof that these little children are being transmitted to this disease, and do we have to bully these children in this way, or bully the parents, the families, and so on?" And we explained that even if the children are in first year or first grade in schools, we will not have to have treatment and that we will not miss the mothers and fathers who are in care, that we will not miss them in health care, that we will not miss them in social services, that we will not miss them where else and that we do not have to pay the billions of contributions and compensation. But it was all odd, because one minister, the other minister, the third minister, when there were both the apostles on the astronomical clock, they still had their own: children, children, children, just nobody cared. So once again, KSČM was the first to demand the children's return to school. I said, where were you? You came all the way after us. Then it came to pass that on the basis of what the government had promised here, and she always turned her back on us, so we said, "Oh, dear government, we're done." Based on this, we said we were refusing to support another emergency. The emergency didn't extend, and what happened? Yes, it has been mentioned here several times. The captains of the People's Party, ODS, who until then had much information as they would do better, suddenly with humility on Sunday came running to the government and: We can't do it, it must centrally be the government, it is we are desperate. And the government has declared a new emergency. Unlawful emergency. I'm asking, colleagues, what did you do? Has anyone filed a criminal complaint? Have you turned to the Constitutional Court? No. I filed the complaint - as I said at this speaker's desk to do, so I did the very next day. You've all been silent and waiting for someone to decide before you make a pandemic law. And who voted in favour of the pandemic law? Mr. Chairman, Vice-President of the House, now managing Tomio Okamura, always says, "We are the only SPDs not." Yes, as a party, you were the only ones in one piece. The KSČM with one exception, with one exception to the pandemic law, never voted because we knew that it was only a terminology substitute for emergency, and we knew what would follow with all those measures that did not change at all on the basis of measures and regulations between emergency status and pandemic law, so it ended. So, Vice-President of the House, Chairman of the SPD, if you say here how you are the only ones, I will ask you to always add "including the KSČM with the exception of a single member of this MP's club." Thank you for that. [[12.40 hours]] Now to the committee of inquiry itself. I'm colleagues who started to talk about the committee of inquiry and said, "You're going to be a member of a committee of inquiry, as a member of the Central Crisis Staff, you have the most information, and so on." So I thanked them for their trust because I sat on two committees of inquiry. I will correct Pepa Hájek here, through the President: she is not helpless, she is toothless. The committee of inquiry, in our view, in our Rules of Procedure, and even if it had created its own, it simply has no competence and can do nothing. I've been working on two committees of inquiry, and when the police asked us for conclusions and material from that committee of inquiry, I've always asked mostly that it gets nowhere, so at least the professional police community doesn't think it's a bunch of morons who work the way it works. And if anyone here thinks you're more knowledgeable, more professional than the people who've lived with it all their lives, and now I mean colleagues from the SAO or my former NCOZ colleagues, today's NCOZ, who deal with this issue, I wish you the courage to have it, and I admire how you think you're cool. In two months, you'll only collect some material that comes here, some things you'll encounter. And I also told my colleague, who became chairman of the Bečva Commission of Investigation, that will end in exactly the same way, in exactly the same way. You get it going, you get the materials, now I'm talking about Bečva, you try some three, four interviews, and you find out that you're completely screwed because there are law enforcement agencies. These people have already been questioned, signed silence, I know it under another name, I'm sorry, I couldn't remember right away, thank you, silence, and they'll come and say, "No, we can't, we've signed silence to the police. You ask the police, and the police say, "Yes, there's a criminal trial going on, we're not releasing any secrecy." You'll be here for two months, you'll be on vacation. Then you interrupt, you say, we interrupt the investigation committee until the conclusion of the authorities to deal with it. And here it will be the same. There are some areas you want to deal with. Ask what you want, you'll get tens and hundreds of materials. But it also needs to be said, and I always say that when my colleague and I are on a standing committee, the inspection of the General Inspectorate - that ex post is doing a good job of investigating it all. They're all smart up to the attic because they have time to do it, but there were also things that have to be decided. We were on the Central Crisis Staff receiving that information. Today there was a drape or a respirator of five crowns, seven crowns a week, 20 crowns a week. And now they had to decide whether or not to buy it. She could have cost seven crowns in 14 days and blamed someone for something at the time when the prices were turbulent and the whole world demanded, so it's just nice that you want to deal with it. Yes, there were dirty purchases, there were things I criticized here, and I criticized them on the Central Crisis Staff, and I told my colleagues at my MP's club. But it's the kind of thing that law enforcement agencies are supposed to deal with, if that's what these things were. And then, of course, we have the SAO's audit report, which is important to us, but that is what the supervisory committee deals with by law. I haven't spoken to the chairman of the inspection committee. Have you guys discussed this here? I don't know, but that's what this is about. And if the audit committee colleagues come to any conclusions that what the SAO colleagues are saying, who are being paid for it, are being paid for it royally, and we are somehow voting for it, so those people who are there certainly have a higher professional education. They have a system of people, dozens and dozens of people to help them, and they know how to do it. And so if the Committee of Auditors concludes that it is necessary to deal with this here, then let us prepare it and we can deal with it here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And I don't give a damn if it's gonna be until the end of the term, or at the beginning of the next term for you, who you're gonna be here. Outputs as such may have a legislative framework for us: what should we do if we need a law that we all have voted so solemnly here, the Administration of State Material Reserves, and then we buried it solemnly, and now maybe in the third, fourth wave we will say something again: Well, or whether we need nothing and whether we need to throw a pipe here. So in many ways, my colleague Feranec was right, and I don't want to repeat it, because he summed it up quite brilliantly, so I refer to it. I can also agree with my colleague Pepa Hájek in this, I would also intercede that they should be included there - not only on the basis of nine political parties, but also on the basis of one of the unlisted. If anything, at least you'll have the right comedy and enjoy your vacation. And I wish you, those who will be nominated, a nice summer. To you who are on the Bečva Committee of Investigation, and to you who will be nominated for this commission of inquiry. I told my MP that I thanked him for his trust, but I am happy to refuse. Thank you for your attention and I wish you what you will be on this committee, have a nice summer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u73	Mrs Karla Maříková will now make a point of fact. Roman Kubíček's Member, I wanted to ask whether it was a general debate or a factual one? Sure. That is a point of fact first, and then he will speak with priority rights for the ANO Roman Kubíček club, and then he will report to the general debate by Mr Martin Kolovratník. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to start by saying that the SPD will support the emergence of the commission of inquiry, and then we will complete the resolution in a detailed debate. To their previous speakers: The commission of inquiry makes sense to name errors and reveal different ties so that they do not repeat themselves. I'm sure they're not supposed to play court or law enforcement. No one here said that. And the fact that the committees are toothless. You know, it's hard, he's toothless and the Supreme Administrative Court when the Department of Health doesn't respect both laws and his decisions. And "consciously" too. When the minister even allows himself on TV to say that he is aware that his measure is illegal and waits for the court to cancel it, then it is hard to say anything that is toothless or that we have no power when no one here respects the laws or decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u75	Mr Lubomír Liber Volný and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček also responds to the point of fact. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u76	I, through the President, to you, Zdenek, dare say that there is other information in the public space about who and how used Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V, for example in some academic situation. However, I would stand up for those people who wrote to you because many of those who wrote to you were really your constituents. These were your voters and at least in the Moravian-Silesian region several local organizations will just vote for the Free Block and will not vote for you because they are not satisfied with what you are doing in the House. You've already lost a number of parties who have transferred from you to the Free Block, and few of them must have written to you. I was also amused by the fact that some of you think that we may have a piár team. [[He's laughing.]] That's amazing. Well, we don't have a peacock team, 'cause we don't get any state or godfather contributions. We live really young, honest, and that's why the poor party is just out of the money we collect ourselves, and for that, you're not really gonna get a peacock team. All we have is what's in our heads and in our hearts, and that's how we work. What I am still relatively - don't worry, my colleague, you will get to the loss of the deadline - however, what has gotten to me is the information that only 400 to 600 soldiers were really involved during the emergency situation, which when we add to that information, as the army has now intervened in the case of a tornado, just as you said, Zdeněk, I agree with you, especially firefighters and police officers, but especially firefighters, they have just done practically everything. And I'd like to know what's the problem with deploying the army, why it's going so wrong when it's been regulated in this case. [[Time.]] I think we should really think about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u77	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now speak on the point of fact and is then prepared with Roman Kubíček's priority right. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u78	I'll be very quick. Dear colleague Karel Maříková, through the President, Karel... if she listens to me. If the Minister says something like that publicly, and I didn't register it, if you've got it somewhere, and he says he's knowingly breaking the law, he's an official... [[Unintelligible voices from the diaper.]] It doesn't matter. Sorry to point at him. Yeah, but I'm pointing to the chair where the minister sits. So if an official in his position as Minister of Health says he's knowingly breaking the law, he's still an official. There is nothing easier than the e-manager of the Police of the Czech Republic, to file a criminal complaint against the abuse of the authority of an official person, to be held by law enforcement authorities, but not to say that we are toothless. We just have a right, but we're not willing to use it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u79	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak on the point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u80	I think, through Mr President, Zdeněk, that you have, in essence, pointed to the right person, because here at the ministry post, the Minister of Health takes turns one by one, who in some way violates the law, and that Minister Arenberger publicly declares that he knows that they approve something illegal, and they will simply wait for the court to drop it, that is indeed a great mockery and impudence, even in relation to the voters, for example the ANO movement that nominated him. However, we really live in a political situation where voters are so buried in their defense lines and so recognize individual leaders or ideological boundaries of their parties and movements that even if Mr Arenberger really attacked someone physically at that time, he really doesn't move with ANO voters, because they are just buried there once and for all. This is simply Mr. Babiš, who defeated the ODS and ČSSD Mafia, which is true, at least ČSSD knocked down the knees and the ODS Mafia also strangled a lot of money lines, and refused to accept the idea that he only two Mafias, ODS and ČSSD replaced a new mafia that goes in another business, whose minister will calmly tell you that the laws mean nothing to him. Well, unfortunately, here, the Minister, the new Minister of Health, is hiding information from us as illegally as did Minister Blatný, who told the Holy Moment of Truth that the covid's victims are, in fact, only 30 percent of those mentioned. That's one thing. And secondly, the Minister of Health here normally publicly declares that he will propose to schools as a solution to the sanitary crisis of apartheid, where children who are not vaccinated and tested will settle somewhere outside the rest of their society, have their toilets, wear a mark on their mouths, wear that yellow mark on their mouths, and be bullied, brutally bullied by the rest of their classmates, because otherwise it can't happen. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u81	Mr Roman Kubíček will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, through Mr President, will respond to Zdeněk Ondráček. Of course, the Audit Committee was concerned about this, and we were exactly in the situation that you pointed out, through Mr President, that we had to interrupt that point because cooperation with the Ministry of Health was perfect. This provided us with any synergies, but the quivering topics that are in the control report are the subject of investigations by law enforcement authorities and will not provide us with any further information until their closure, so we were just as toothless as the commission of inquiry. I note that there is a representation of all parties in the inspection committee, and we have all agreed on this procedure. At the same time, the same applies to the Ministry of the Interior. So once this is concluded, the inspection committee doesn't know if in this period, but in the next period, it can go back to this point and we can negotiate it. And I think his options are at least the same as the investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u83	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Martin Kolovratník, will be prepared to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. I thank the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee for this information. I hope that this information has also been heard at the club of the ANO movement so that colleagues know that what we are sitting here for almost four hours now is absolutely unnecessary and that we could - if we had the will - the political will to do some of the things that we will argue about tomorrow and convince each other of what we still need to do by the end of the parliamentary term, whether they are social things, whether they are our fire-fighting things, ezethes, remember those Vejprty when we said there: We will ensure it, we do it, we have it here, we ask you, we have a political agreement, but we just aren't able to fit in there anymore. I have a law on the Police of the Czech Republic, the amendment, there are drones, there are plates, there is a political situation, there is no controversial point where we would disagree, both members of the subcommittee and members of the committee, and we will be begging if you include it for us tomorrow, because we need to discuss it. And instead of the lost time parade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u85	Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Martin Kolovratník is now ready to make a point of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. I would once again, through Mr President, to Mr Ondráček, as you said, that we are actually not defenseless, that we have to file criminal charges and the like, so I need to be criminally aware of the suspicion of preparing a murder crime in the anti-campaign against Ivermektin, and it has returned to me from the Police of the Czech Republic, with the fact that this is not the right form of filing a criminal report, they have simply postponed the criminal report and stopped investigating it because I have given it to them in some bad form. This really stinks that a person, a citizen of this country, and a gifted MP e-mail box, who sends a criminal complaint to the Police of the Czech Republic, is not taken seriously, and the moment a police officer has the opportunity to move away from the investigation, he will move away. Two days ago, there was an attempted murder of a free-block sympathizer. Someone broke into her private property, pulled the volný blok stickers off her car and let her have the screws on her left front wheel. The lady, the mother of five, she and her children got in the car, rode out, and the bike dropped off while she was driving. She went to the Police of the Czech Republic to announce this, and a police officer told her that if anything happened to anyone, she would be liable to criminal charges because she didn't check for loose wheels before driving. And they told her that because no one was hurt, they wouldn't be looking for the perpetrator of this obvious attempted murder or at least assault or general threat. In a country like this, unfortunately, we live today. So while we have some theoretical options -- but the practical options are zero. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u87	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is now on the verdict. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u88	I don't even believe it, because any filing, e-mailer - Professor Válková can confirm - is not based on the form, but according to the content, that is, if you report, file a criminal report, it is completely irrelevant whether you write it on toilet paper or mail it in any form. The e-mail office, they'll just take it, then they'll make it up to you in some way. If this has happened, as you say, there are internal control authorities, file a complaint against the officer who has now responded to you in this way, let him deal with it. If it doesn't work out, there's a permanent commission to check the operation of the General Inspection of the Security Corps and someone can look into it. But I do not know cases where the police would postpone the matter or filing in this way, and even if they were members of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u89	And now, on the point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný. Just a heads-up, I'll call a break at one o'clock. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. I am aware of all these possibilities, but of course again for tactical reasons, because I hope that here in the House we will agree and there will be a process of extradition of the Lubomír Volný to prosecute, for which I hereby call you, and I ask you to place a point firmly - perhaps tomorrow morning in the context of the proposal - yes, the lady here said that you will definitely include it, so that's great, I'm glad. [[Response to the passing Member's remark.]] I'm gonna give you an opportunity to do this by not being here, and if I'm gonna come up with one of those suggestions, 'cause, of course, I'm gonna give you all the information about my release, and I'm gonna try to show you the hard evidence that I'm gonna support both what I've just said with the police, so obviously there's a systematic misinformation campaign going on a drug that's capable of both preventive treatment and helping in the initial stages of the covid, and helping in the most difficult and worst cases of COVID-19's disease. [[13.00 hours]] Part of this will be working with the police as such, when I was simply summoned for questioning and after the interrogation I stated what I imagine as the police activity in this case. Unfortunately, the police didn't listen to me because I said, the moment there are any deaths associated with Ivermectin, send your team there immediately and investigate. Well, what happened now in the recent past? In the recent past, there has been a media report that people OD'd on Ivermectin, and I have no information that the police have actively intervened there, found those people who were supposed to OD'd on Ivermectin, and produced some kind of report on it, because I believe that the media report on Ivermectin overdose is a lie to the covid mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u91	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Marian Bojko. Just a heads-up, I'm gonna have to call a break at 1:00. [[Ambassador Boyko is coming to the microphone.]] So it's 13 o'clock. Just a heads-up for the organizational department to note that the factual point, Marian Bojko, and in the general debate I have one registered, is Mr Martin Kolovratník. I'm calling a break and we'll continue at 16 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u92	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. After the lunch break we will continue to discuss item Proposal for the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to deal with the pandemic of Corona COVID-19 in the Czech Republic, House document 8832. I've heard the application for check-out, so I'll check you all out, please log in with your I.D. cards. And until we have a sufficient number, that is the number of 67 Members, we will not be able to continue. [[He's waiting a while.]] I'm putting out a five-minute break to try and sew up the lines. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.03 to 16.08 hours.]] It's 16.09. Before we begin discussing this point, because the quorum must be fulfilled if we vote on anything and this does not prevent us from discussing this point in any way, Vice-President Pikal is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it's obvious that there's more of us here than the voting device shows, so if something hadn't changed, I don't know if it was a technical malfunction or somewhere else, or maybe we'd have to get a hand recount if there was a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u94	Well, anyway, I'm following what's on the board, and that's 56 Members. With priority rights, Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a group that has called an emergency meeting. I said what this meeting was about today. If we want to continue with this spirit, why don't you at least have enough people here? These are serious issues, there's a government minister sitting here. So I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting until at least the Home Secretary is present as head of the Central Crisis Staff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u96	I have to vote on this procedural proposal, but I will sign you off first, and we need to find out if we are even able to vote on this procedural proposal. I checked you out, please log in with your cards. You're already checked out. We have a technical problem here. Mr Jan Volný cannot sign up for his voting facility. You can't do it? So I'm gonna try to check you out one more time. Now try to sign up. Is that okay? [[Ambassador Jan Free is still unable to sign in.]] Then I will ask the technician to check Mr Volný's voting system. I'm calling a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out to my colleagues from the Communist Party that the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček is on a business trip in Slovenia. I don't know if he's landed on Ruzyně yet, but let's count on him to come to this hall, he'll certainly be a technical problem, and I can't say today, neither I nor colleagues from social democracy, when that can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u98	For technical reasons, I have to call a break for another 15 minutes, so within 16.28 hours.)
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u99	The time set for the break is over, the voting device should be fine. I'll check you all out, please sign up with your cards to find out the kvorum. [[A silence.]] There is a procedural proposal that I should put to the vote, but I cannot, because we do not have sufficient quorum and the Chamber of Deputies is not a quorum. Ambassador Aulická?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the convener of this extraordinary meeting to at least retain some dignity, and I would ask them until they have obtained the necessary number of votes to convene or to vote, this meeting to take a break and not to do what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u101	Ambassador Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond first to Mrs. Aulická Jírovcová. It takes 40 votes to call a meeting. This meeting has been convened by 43 votes, which is not enough for the 67 votes needed to maintain the opportunity to vote here. In any case, I am making a procedural proposal that we vote on the Ondráček proposal in addition, which means here in the hall, because I am convinced that there are 67 of us, so I am putting this procedural proposal on the calculated vote on interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u103	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor. A simple statement to the colleague. As far as I know, when government laws are voted, there's a coalition and there's an opposition. It doesn't matter what meeting it is. We are all Members, we are all bound by the exercise of our mandate and it does not matter who convenes the meeting, because when the meeting is convened, all Members are at work and not that those who support the coalition or do not like the current agenda can pull their cards and thus block negotiations. If there is a meeting, it is that all who are here are to be logged in. And the other thing. As far as I know, there is no minister, there is no government here. This is the main obstacle to our actions. [[Voices from ČSSD benches.]] Colleagues, don't yell at me. If the House is acting, the Minister must be present in the hall. This is not about the Minister sitting around the corner, thereby legitimizing the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations. You already know this with your practice. The Minister must be present in the Chamber so that at least one of them represents the Government and the negotiations can continue. This means that the negotiations are also prevented because none of the ministers are in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u105	Vice-President Filip with priority rights, and they will only give priority rights, because nothing else is possible. I would like to point out that we have 60 Members present, we are not a quorum and we have a fully operational voting device, so we will follow this here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I would quite believe what Mr Bartošek wanted to say, but that would not be the rule that if they didn't like something in KDU-ČSL, they would say here that they were retiring that point one week, the second week, the third week, because it didn't work out. So, folks, we need to talk about decency in the negotiations so that all the deputies will follow it. I do not doubt at all that it is enough for 40 Members to convene a meeting, but on the other hand, calling the extraordinary meeting meant that we had lost our intervention, that we had lost a number of other points that we could have discussed at 11 o'clock, and among other things there are points that we could have said, of course, in the agreement of the MPs on the political gremium, that they would be included. This is a force solution, those who called the meeting elected him, and don't attack the other clubs so they don't act like it. Such behavior was introduced here, the forces, and it was certainly not the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I even think that they were not even the political parties of the minority government, and I dare say that there are only a few memorials here, and every time it was said that there would be force solutions, it had some answer, whether it was - I don't know - under the rule of Miroslav Topolánek or under the rule of Jiří Paroubek, but in any case those answers were one-off, and not the whole election period going on. Let me remind you of one thing that is in place here until this term of office. Until this term of office! And that's that third reading is only on Wednesdays and Fridays. I have at least a few witnesses here, such as Marek Benda, that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of voting on the third reading on Wednesday and Friday was due to the fact that the conditions in the House were 100 to 100, and that is why it was said that we could even plan the work of Members, whether in international organisations, which is the performance of the work of a Member, the Permanent Delegation of the OSCE, the Interinstitutional Union, the Council of Europe and so on, and that is why it was said. And now it's being used to say, "We won't allow you to read a third day other than Wednesday and Friday, but that's a force solution, and I don't know that KSČM or social democracy would use it when it was, for example, religious restitution. We never used the institute. We used a constitutional path, and that we didn't win, that's what happens sometimes. So don't try to blame somebody for the fact that there's supposed to be Members here for the coalition and the opposition. You've chosen a force solution, and there's an answer to a force solution. It's not my answer, I'm duly logged in, and I don't see why I should log out or why I should do anything else. But remember what you've done. You have caused you not to have enough votes to vote on your own agenda. We didn't question the agenda. We have officially announced that we have reasons not to vote for the establishment of the Commission and that we have no reason to block other points in this meeting. That's legitimate political party practice and trying to train us here, I don't think that's a good try. Just make it clear that you have no intention of ever letting go of the election of members of the Czech Television Council, which is, forgive me, vacant in 4 seats out of 15, which means almost one third. But someone doesn't like it, while if I had to count the nominees for the 11 people who are there to which political directions they are, the most people who have the most people there are shouting at the Council of Czech Television that it is not possible for others to be allowed. That was the KSČM's power solution? No. You guys brought him in here saying, "Now there's gonna be breaks." So what do you want here? Do you want an agreement that the end of the term will be in a dignified atmosphere or in a forceful solution? I'm willing to say, yes, we're going to meet with a political grémium, we're going to say how we're going to proceed, or we're going to repress here, and there's going to be strong statements that are going to be for the media, because they're not going to make us at least discuss what's going to be discussed. 'Cause those other points, I'm sorry, they don't have a big priority. We were able to discuss the constitutional law on referendums at 11 o'clock after the written intercessions, which were not solved very much, the constitutional law on water, which was agreed, but in the end there were only three political clubs that did not have 120 votes to send such a law to the Senate. If we wanted to complete the Constitutional Law on Water Protection, we would not only have 120 votes on that, we would even have consent to the Senate, pre-negotiated, at least on that text. But it bothers some people, so it's just not going to be discussed and instead we're going to discuss an international doping agreement in sports. I don't know if he has more priority than the Constitutional Water Protection Act. [[16.40 hours]] So, of course, we can push around here and say what important things are here, or we can start acting. But I don't see the meeting yet. I wonder when they will declare the blocking clubs that they are willing to release the legitimate choice, the legitimate democratic election of the members of the Czech Television Council. I'm curious. Say it, and I'm sure we can agree on a sequel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Just before I give another word with priority rights, I would like to inform you that for me personally as President, the relevant figure on the board is an electronic application. The participation of each Member shall be recorded by applying to the voting facility. So we still have 62, we are not a quorum, and with priority rights, Mr Vice-President, there are others before you, President Válek, President Bartošek, Mr Benda, and then Vice-President Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I will not lower myself to such debate, it is beneath me to open up here, as some Vice-Presidents direct meetings, through you, Mr President, for example, the Communist Party Chairman, how he directs meetings, how he interprets the rules, how he takes his words and does what he pleases. It's just his business, his conscience, his view of decency and honor, I don't care. But I'm gonna talk about what I'm doing. And I go to the Grémium! We both go there, through the President, Mr President, and we both know that I have repeatedly begged President Faltýnek: let us agree on laws that are easy to vote. I have asked for a preferential classification of the Act on the Electronisation of Health, and by your means, Mr President, I am sure the Minister will confirm this. [[He speaks loudly, urgently.]] I asked, not the coalition presidents of the clubs, I asked for priority to be discussed by Act 48. I'm really trying my best to be fair and fair, and personally, I'm very concerned when anyone is rubbing off on the fact that the callers of this meeting haven't behaved well. We had a decent and proper arrangement with President Faltýnek that it would be far easiest to place those points on a normal program, and you were there and you heard it. You yourself know that on Monday we were not even able - not us, but you, the three presidents of coalition clubs - to agree on what priorities are. I can repeat what the various Presidents have said and how everyone has said about their priorities. But you weren't able to make a deal within the coalition! I said I'd be happy to support any law that isn't conflicting, so we can work something out. And the result was that we agreed that on Thursday afternoon a grémium would be reunited. When's the Thursday afternoon gonna be the Grémium to make a deal tomorrow that we're gonna tell each other what points are going to be scored? Why isn't the grémium called? Do you feel that this is the fault of one of the leaders of the opposition parties' clubs? I don't feel that way. The fact that the House leadership organization doesn't work here, the fact that there's no deal that works here, and any deal that comes through, it's not my fault. If there's one single example of me breaking a handshake or a given word when I've done anything incorrect, please say it! I have repeatedly encountered irreparableness. I have negotiated with the Minister what will be in the resolution, explained to him what I want to push through, and I have tried correctly to reach out to some of the opposition colleagues that I want to discuss in this meeting, and all the other points are the points proposed by the President of this House. He wanted those points to be there, and I totally agreed to it! What am I to judge which point is significant or not? He guaranteed that these points were non-conflict. I'm really trying my best to behave and correct myself. Unfortunately, I'm facing tough resistance, but not opposition!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u109	President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u110	Only the facts: I have repeatedly calculated how many Members are present, there are 70 of us. In the event of everyone applying, the Chamber of Deputies is able to act and discuss. I know that many of you are registered, I'm not talking to you. I'm talking about the ones we counted and they're not logged in with cards. That's all. This means that the Chamber of Deputies, if all Members present in the Chamber of Deputies are signed up, may continue to discuss this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr. Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u112	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was somewhat provoked by Vice-President Filip because it reminded me of last year's speeches by the Prime Minister about how we must discuss necessarily the law of gardening when we started to rush into the second round, if we really consider it more important to deal with various laws on referendums and water and others than to talk about what is and will potentially be the problem of this country, that is, a pandemic, the behaviour of the Ministry of Health. The fact that not new waves are coming, but new hysteria from the state and representatives of the Ministry of Health, that we will be tested repeatedly and indefinitely no matter how many of us are vaccinated or not vaccinated. If all this is pointless, all right, I respect that. I feel that, of course, the government coalition has the right not to apply for work to continue working. It's a legitimate attitude about how to behave here. Just don't blame us for not being ready to talk about how to deal with pandemics in the fall. And if you think it's reasonable for us to really test the first, third, seventh, and perfect children when they get back from vacation, for the hundreds of millions that this ministry has already torn apart, put your hand on it and let's break up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u113	Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to follow up on the debate on the voting device by quoting from our Rules of Procedure, which in § 69 para. 2 clearly states that the Member shall, upon entry into the Chamber, sign in by means of a voting device, at the time of departure from the Chamber, he shall sign out. I am absolutely convinced that at this point, there are more than 60, 67 of us, some even say 70, so this voting machine just doesn't fit the situation. So I would ask my colleagues to proceed in accordance with the law, with the Rules of Procedure, and after entry, to at least honor the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. The conviction, Mr Vice-President, is legitimate, it's nice, but the reality is 63. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] It's a reality on a voting device. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u116	Thanks for the floor, so I got those papers out. I don't think it's meaningful to read here, in any case, the sum of the people for YES, KSČM and ČSSD, or the majority of the government who are logged in, is 13 people. And now on the left side of me is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 people. So the status on that list doesn't match the reality I demonstrated here before you today. The number's wrong. [[Ambassador Birke from the O.R. How many of you are there?]] If you want to know how many of us there are - I'll tell you exactly: the Pirates are 17. [[Please don't shout at yourself!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u117	Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. [[Voices in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u118	Thank you, Mr President. So I'd like us to say, "Everybody has different priorities." [[The President: I beg you to remain calm in the Chamber! Thank you.]] Someone's launching an election campaign in Plzeň, someone's on Charles Bridge, someone's here. [[16.50 hours]] As regards the observations made by Vice-President Pikal, this is, of course, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. There is, of course, an oath for constitutional officials at the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and even if we are applied for, it is the right not to vote. I am voting in favour, against, abstain from voting and have the right not to vote on certain things, either because of, for example, conflict of interest, or because of others, political, religious and so on. There is such a right. Let us read the Rules of Procedure in relation to the Constitution and do not argue, forgive me, so that we draw attention away from what is needed. There's a certain reality here, and I said, and I have to say, my colleague, Válek, was right. But I have never blocked - and this my colleague Válek will support me that KSČM would block some point, which should be read from the grémia, for example - and on the other hand, when we said: Yes, let's give at least one priority for the club, so we did not come to it. That's political reality, but don't blame me or the KSČM for that. There has simply been no such agreement between nine political clubs in this Chamber of Deputies so that we can address those priorities. So if we don't deal with them, some have chosen a force solution, others have assumed that there will be some negotiations that will take place in the standard, last standard meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because the other meetings will be extraordinary, convened because we do not have some priorities that the citizens of the Czech Republic expect to discuss, whether it is the Social Insurance Act, and then there will be proposals that will come back from the Senate, and we will have to finish them in September. It may be that some law passed by the Senate will not be signed by the President, and we will be here calmly, forgive me, on October 6th, that can happen. There's been a reality like this in the past, okay? It wasn't lithium, it was different things, but I have to say, it's up to us. I am not avoiding discussing the priorities of individual political clubs, and I declare that the priority of the KSČM is the Labour Code and the absence of almost one third of the members of the Czech Television Council.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. There's no one else with priority rights to report. There was time enough for us to fill a quorum that is not fulfilled, so I, for the failure of the Chamber of Deputies, interrupt the negotiations of this Chamber of Deputies and interrupt the discussion of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u120	Since the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not here, I will ask the representative, because there are not all members of the parliamentary clubs here, that the representatives of the parliamentary clubs come here, we will agree on a further procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-001-001.u121	And I'll read my apologies on the tape. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, today, by the end of the day, for work reasons and tomorrow, for work reasons. [[Apology]] Mr Pavel Jelínek from today's meeting in time from 16.16 to 17.16 for working reasons. Mr Radek Holomčík, today, from 16 a.m. to the end of the day, for work reasons. Mr Karel Tureček, Member, today between the 16th and the 20th, until the end of the meeting day due to a doctor's visit. Mr Vojtěch Munzar from all over today's day for working reasons. Mrs Taťána Malá today from 13.15 and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg today between 16 and 19.15 for health reasons. Thank you.
