ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government - we have a 115th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - I welcome you all. I remind you that at the 111st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, by resolution 1744, we laid down detailed rules for the negotiations and the seating arrangements, everything is the same as on Wednesday. Please don't forget to sign up for the presentation papers in the lobby and then log in to your conference system unit. At the same time, you must always check out before leaving the hall. I would remind you that only factual comments can be made through the units of the conference system in the debate, and proper applications to the debate can only be made in writing, in the case of the operator of the voting device or from the point of raising his hand. Given the size and orientation of the hall, it is sometimes difficult for the President to see who is reporting in the back, so I recommend - I ask that everyone report in writing who wants to speak. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 47 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 20 July this year. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I'm gonna try a new gong again. [[Gong rehearsal.]] I hope he hears better than the one on Wednesday. I propose that we designate Jana Černochová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. Is there another proposal for verifiers? If I don't see anyone, I've taken a vote. I'm asking, who's for the verifiers? Who's against it? Our number one vote, 93 for 83 against no one. The motion was accepted. These Members asked for an apology for the meeting, Ivan Adamec family Petr - Venhoda Schwarzenberg, Andrea Babišová - family Vildumetzová, Ondřej Babka - health reasons, Lukáš Bartoň - Jakub Bohuslav, Martin Baxa - Svoboda Okleštěk, Jana Levová without reason, Fridrich Blaha - Julius Špičák, Strýček Bláha - Jana Munzar, Žáček Blažek - personal Jakub, František Černý Vácha personal Vlastimil, Monika Červíčková - Zuzana Zahradníková, Tomáš Kytýr - working Vyzula - family reasons, Radek Holomčík - family reasons, Vymazal Jada - Tomáš Rostislav, Pavel Jelínek - health Ivo, Pavel Juříček - Ivo Daniel, Václav Klaus - Karla Šlechtová, Tomáš Staněk - family Petr, Kamal Farhan - family reasons, Ivan Jáč - working reasons, The members of the government apologize: Klára Dostálová - family reasons, Jan Hamáček - personal reasons, Jakub Kulhánek - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - working reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 115th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 Rules of Procedure cannot be proposed to amend or supplement the agenda, we vote only on the proposed programme. I'm gonna reengage. We will vote on the proposal for a programme, as shown on the invitation. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Votes number two, votes 107, 99 against no one. The agenda has been approved. And so I'm opening a point number.
