ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice Prime Minister, before we begin the 97th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I have some technical information for you on the course. According to the decision of the Organising Committee, the meeting will be suspended 83 10 minutes after the end of this 97th meeting. We're gonna formally end her. She doesn't have a point on her agenda anymore. And ten minutes after this formally concluded meeting, we would continue the suspended 91st meeting and focus on the remaining points of its approved programme. In all cases, these are meetings that have been convened for signatures. It's not possible to change their show. Now, to record your involvement, I've checked you all out. I beg you to sign up with your ID cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. This 97th meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, March 31st. We would now start by choosing verifiers. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Holík and a Member of František Kopřiva. I'm asking if there's a proposal for another person of verifiers. I don't see anybody, I'll call in my co-workers from the lobby. I will use my moments to recapitulate that, under the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs, each Member, although not in writing or otherwise excused, is deemed to be excused, under the agreement of the Members' Clubs, we are sitting in half the number. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - health reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons. We already have a vote for the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's for the proposed verifiers. Who's against it? Voting number 1, we are 79 logged in at the moment, for 79, against no one. I note that we have appointed members of Jaroslav Holík and members of František Kopřiva to the 97th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 97th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54. par. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the proposed agenda? Who's against it? Voting number two, 80 Members signed up for 79, against no one, the proposal was adopted. The agenda has been approved. Thank you. Before we proceed to one item on the agenda, I have a request for a performance with the priority right of President Faltýnek. Please calm down and please take your seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister. I noticed a demand from you yesterday. The Prime Minister asked me to respond to the articles on the List and to the circumstances regarding my diary or my diary or my personal notes. I think that Pavel Kováčik or President Filip also called on me, and other colleagues, colleagues, and I would like to take advantage of this situation and say a few words and my comments on this matter. I apologize in advance for putting this into the negotiations, for the third reading of the electoral law, but I believe that within that time, we will be able to do it with my performance, possibly with the reactions that my performance will produce. A journalist named Janek Kroupa from the List is available, but unfortunately, I can't judge it, probably an overpriced diary or a diary from 15, 16, maybe 17 on some personal notes in that diary. I'm old-school, and I've been using this big black diary for about 20 years, where I've been writing down all my meetings with people I meet, and I've been making some notes about what these people wanted and what they wanted to deal with. How did the obsessed diary get to Mr. Kroupa, I don't know, I can only speculate that someone very close to me has stolen it, someone, and now I'm saying, it's speculation, I don't want anyone to file criminal charges against me. I'm not gonna file any criminal charges, either, because you can never win a fight with journalists, and I don't want to fight journalists. But given the date, it's sometime from the years 15, 16, when someone had access to my private notes, they took photos and then handed them over or monetized them. I'm just speculating, I don't know. But it would be good for law enforcement authorities to investigate this on all sides. Towards me, towards the potential perpetrators of the crime, when someone actually stole me, took a picture of my diaries and then released them into circulation. When I heard the Prime Minister's call to explain my remarks in diaries aged 5, 6, 7 years, and the appeal to explain who I'm meeting and who I'm dealing with, I'm asking myself, but that's a question for all of us: who can we actually meet as Members? And for that meeting, we need the approval of who? Mr. Prime Minister, or Chairman of the movement, or Minister of the Interior, or President of the House? I don't know. And you know this very well from the time I was in the House, and we talked about it several times when the barbecue was twice because of čapí's nest, when my person's barbecue was for a myth two years ago, it was about two years ago, but I'm gonna get to that. I'm so constantly accused of meeting people I shouldn't meet. And when someone asks you through the secretariat or directly for a meeting, even if it's an unknown person, I just meet him and ask what he needs, I make a note, and then I either deal with it or I don't. I'll pass it on or I won't pass it on. And I took notes like that. Whether all the list's available are real or not, I can't judge, because I haven't seen it, and I don't have the old diaries anymore, because they're actually fired or destroyed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u3	So I was wondering if he would-- I know there's no time for that today, and we're in half the size of it. But let's do this at the next meeting, where we're going to be 200 - I don't want to waste anybody's time - but to figure out who the MP might actually meet. Whether he's just a voter or a businessman or a lobbyist. I meet everyone. I admit it openly. And whoever asks me to meet him, I'll just meet him if I have time, of course. As for the accusations - today's big articles about how I influenced Rencar and all that nonsense. Here I would just like to say that, after the previous municipal elections, when the ANO movement formed a coalition with social democracy and STAN, I feel, so the coalition actually fell apart, and the Bureau of the movement asked me to go over the situation as the first Vice-President. And I solved it. The situation has stabilized. And logically, I spent four years in the capital, consulting the mayor's case at least on a 14-day, three-week basis, and of course I was interested in things where there might be a problem. And specifically, the Rencar case, where, in fact, during the reign of the ANO movement, and consequently already during the new Magistrate, for the Pirates, it was that the contract was re-competitive and it earned CZK 100 million a year for the transport business. So if anyone's saying that Faltýnek-Nine was lobbying for something, that's, of course, nonsense, because that's what the traffic company says. Today, fellow pirát have their mayor there. And I think it's a good thing that the termination of the contract, the recompetitive of the contracts, and the effect is 100 million a year, which is - if the contract were to be paid by 2035 as it originally was to pay, it would be 1.5 billion crowns. Which is quite a lot. So I'm just responding to the fact that I was actively debating the topic of Prague when, in fact, at the beginning of the coalition crisis, I entered into it and as the first Vice-President of the movement, I was involved in this whole term. After all, I see Patrik Nacher here, who was a representative at the time. I don't know if he was a councilman, I don't think so, but Patrik will confirm that I regularly met with the mayor and other colleagues in social democracy, Mr. Dolínek and others, and we discussed these matters. I have sent the questions Mr Kroupa sent to our Members with my answers, which I have sent to him. Today we had a club where I tried - or tried, well, where I just said my opinion, I explained those things. For your information, I'd like to say a few things here from Mr. Kroupa's questions. Because, of course, my answers didn't appear in the answers. But that's normal, we're used to that with some of our journalists. And I'm not criticizing it, but I just sent my answers to my colleagues for objectivity alone. One thing. It's a shame she's not here in the hall of Kateřina Valachová, who was the Minister of Education. But there's Adam Kalous, who was the mayor of Jeseník at some point. And Marian Jurečka is here, that's great. My colleague Rychetský, President of the Constitutional Court, is not here at the moment. Mr. Kroupa writes. "We have a record whose authenticity Mr. Černošek has confirmed that he wants you to keep an eye on three subsidies. Then you spoke to Mrs. Valachová about one of them and then Kratochvílová. Why did you do that?" Primarily it is a project of the National Sports Centre in Prostějov, where I live, or have a permanent residence there for almost 60 years, I was a councillor and representative in Prostějov for 30 years. And when the idea of a joint project of the Olomouc Region, the city of Prostějov and the company TK PLUS came to the table for the construction of this large gym, this large hall, for the needs of Prostějov schools, volleyball players, basketball players and tennis players, it is true that I have been active in this matter at the council and at all levels as a Prostějov MP I have said it is a good thing that it is simply necessary to build this National Sports Centre. And it was built. So, yes, I admit I lobbied for the construction of this sports centre. By the way, I live about 100 meters from him by the crow flies. As far as the next grant is concerned, some of us were here for questioning at the police station. In fact, the case concerned Kratochvílová, Pelta, where the story begins at the moment when the mayor of the town of Jeseník Adam Kalous enters my office in Prostějov as an MP for the Olomouc Region, saying: We as a city want to tear down an old gym and build a new one for children for approximately CZK 60 million, plus minus. We have secured funding from the region, the Regional Council approved the co-financing of 20 million. We have $20 million in our city's budget, and we're asking for $20 million in the Ministry of Education. Would you please ask the MP if our request is okay? Yeah, that's what I'm here for. So I went to the then Deputy Minister Mr. Plaga, our Deputy Minister for YES. I say, Mr. Plaga, I beg you, what is the matter with this request, is the request okay? And Mr. Plaga says, "No, no, no, I don't care, go to the secretary." So I went to see Minister Valachová. I say, Madam Secretary, is the request of the town of Jeseník okay? She says, "Jarda, go see Mrs. Kratochvílová, she's the deputy who's handling it." So I went to see Mrs. Kratochvílová, who's handling it. I say, Madam Deputy, please, is this request of the town of Jeseník okay? And she says, "Yes, she's fine. And that's it for me. Well, what happened? The application was withdrawn for formal reasons. The mayor came in, explained to me what the problem was. I'm going to Mrs. Kratochvílová again and I say, Deputy Minister, please, why did you disable the application for formal reasons? - Because there is no proof of co-financing by the municipality. So I said, Mr. Mayor, this is the official position of the Ministry, go deal with it. And that's it for me. And that's what I told the police. Just like when the reporters wrote that Marian Jurečka lobbied for every club. Somewhere, I don't know where. In the Bugs or whatever. The President of the Constitutional Court of Rychetský lobbied for some tennis club in Brno. And I ask, can't we, as MPs, ask the mayor of the city if this request is okay? We can't, I guess. Next thing. Mr Kroupa asks: What did you mean when you were planning to secretly own a joint stock company? What you meant by the sentence "SRO - own share 33 percent. Tribal leaves. [[bearer shares]] The Real Owner - Me." I replied that I had never done business, I never owned any company, confessed or hidden, and I didn't even plan it. However, a quote from yesterday's article on this matter. "Tomáš Uvízl" - this is former director of the Prostějov hospital, manager of the company Agel, former, today he is in the faculty in Olomouc - "he was really a manager of the company Agel and he knows Jaroslav Faltýnek. They both come from Prostějov. It also goes with the fact that, in mid-2016, Agel really dealt with the purchase of the company that Tomáš Uvízl proposed. It was the company Medihope, Medihope of Prostějov, which operated its practice in the hospital, which at the time was managed by Uvízl. The parameters of the store correspond exactly in the notes given by Faltýnkův's idea." [[10.20 hours]] It is a pity that President Pekarová Adamová is not sitting here because I have a request for her. Do you know who owns Medihope? Tomáš Chalánek. Do you know who Tomáš Chalánek is? He's the husband of Senator Jitka Chalánková. So let them ask Jitka Chalánková or Tomáš if Faltýnek ever planned to buy x percent of their company. I would be very interested in what Tomáš Chalánek or Jitka - I know them for thirty years, we are both from one city, Tomáš was a representative behind KDU-ČSL, we have known each other for a very long time. So another senseless design by Mr. Kroupa. Another thing: "You note that your son robbed you, he should have taken a million crowns from your vault. What was that money?" I replied that this is, of course, nonsense, but unfortunately part of the truth is on it. Did you, colleagues, ever have a child who was on drugs? Have you ever had a child, a colleague, a colleague who was on drugs? We didn't. It's ten years old history. Unfortunately, my son was involved, my younger son, and, you know, when you're looking for drugs, it doesn't matter where it comes from. He's been in custody for three months, and I'm happy I just managed to get him out of it. Ten years is fine, 35, I have two grandsons, it works, and I'm proud and happy that I managed to get him out of it. So, yes, Mr. Kroupa here is partly right. Of course, I've never had a vault in Prostějov, but it makes me a little sad. I could be here discussing questions and answers. There's no point. Of course, I'm communicating, I'm not hiding anywhere, I'm trying to answer those questions, but I'd like to ask a lot if the law enforcement authorities could actually investigate these things. I'm not going to file any criminal charges, it really doesn't make any sense, and I said it here at the beginning, but the law enforcement authorities have the possibility to investigate crimes that could potentially have happened both on my part and, of course, on the part of Mr Kroupa and List's company. So very briefly to the introduction from my side. I apologize for robbing you of twenty minutes of debate over the third reading of the electoral law, but because you called me in the media yesterday to comment on some things, or even how this whole thing came about, what it is and what it is, I chose this form. And I'm sure I'm gonna make some press announcements, communicate with the press, give them interviews, and try to explain things in some way. However, I understand that we are in the election campaign. Period. I understand. We're in the campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of Černohorský applied for the Pirates Club with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u5	Thank you for the floor. Through the President to the President. I understand that press 565, the Act on lobbying, will probably be a priority for the ANO movement. In this case, we will be expecting us shortly, probably from May, at this point is interrupted only until the end of April, and I think that would solve a lot of these problems in this case, within which the law clearly defines what is possible lobbying and what is as if your meetings are. Otherwise, I might recommend it here, we've already had it here during the discussion with Kapsch: Pirates have a public register of contacts, within which you can find out about who and when we have dealt with. It's delicious even as a notepad. Sometimes I look back on what I've ever dealt with, and I'm sure it's good for the future. Alternatively, we still have open calendars, so Mr. Kroupa doesn't really have to look for them anywhere in the world, but he can pull it out of our public calendars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. The lobbying bill is a little bit different. President Faltýnek wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u7	Yes, you're right, colleague. You know that I sit regularly once a week, in two weeks with Jakub Michálek, today we are to meet with colleague Stanjura over the priorities of individual clubs. I've got them ready for all of you, just like you asked for these things. And it's true that as far as the priorities of the Pirate Party are concerned, there's 545, everybody wants that, a slippery mandate, a copyright law, a conflict of interest, lobbying - there's a lot of these things, and there's a intersection. There is a intersection between the priorities of all parties in the House, so that we do a little more by the end of the parliamentary term, because otherwise we will still be calling an emergency meeting and it will go nowhere. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-000-000.u8	No one with priority rights is logged in. I'm opening one point in this meeting, item one.
