ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social-Legal Protection of Children, as amended, and other related laws /German press 911/ - third reading We began the discussion of this point on 28 July at the 113th meeting. The debate has been interrupted because the 114th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened at 11 o'clock. I ask that Mr. Jakub Kulhánek and Mr. Marek Novák, Member of the Guarantee Committee, take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff. I would remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 911/8, which was delivered on 17 June 2021, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Prints 911/9 and 10. So we will continue with the interrupted debate, which they have also signed up for... Do I have a point here that Mrs Aulická has been made on the point of fact? It was the last time to make a point of fact... so today it's downloading. And in the debate, Mrs Helena Válková will be the first to speak. I don't think she's here. [[From the benches, it is.]] Is it? He's in the back. Mrs Válková is enrolled in the debate on the first item. Mr. Pražák cancels his apology for the record. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] And I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom, because the acoustics really aren't 100%, and exactly you can't hear me, I can't hear what he's saying on the microphone, and so on. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u2	I'm gonna try to loosen the respirator up just a little bit so I can be heard. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Dear colleagues, I am once again addressing you and stressing that, as an agent of the government, this coalition government, for human rights, I have dealt with this problem in the long term, as well as my role as Vice-President of the Human Rights Council and, of course, as someone who is active and coordinating the work of the Government Committee on the Rights of the Child. At the same time, as a Member, I have always followed the interest of those who take care of vulnerable children. They are in addition to parents who sometimes fill in in cases where, of course, they need professional help and still do not have it fully available to the extent and quality that they deserve, so they are especially those who are filling in for parents, or foster parents, adopters, mentors, i.e. crisis centers, and, last but not least, the institutional facilities that take care of the smallest ones, not only children under three years of age, but up to four, five, six, seven years of age who, for any reason, have found themselves in those constitutional facilities. I start in this way in general, just so you know that this is not an ad hoc interest, but that this government has been monitoring this issue for a long time. And, of course, I very much welcome, I also like to sign this extraordinary meeting because it is, among other things, an improvement in the care of those who take care of those children outside the institutional facility, or foster parents, an increase in their rewards and, in essence, a start-up of another system that will lead us to the family where we belong, European countries that no longer place their children, especially the youngest children, into constitutional facilities. If we look at the charts, for example, how it looks, because apart from foster parents - for those who don't remember it, or it's not a law that they would follow so closely, because they are otherwise oriented, so when we look at countries that place their children - and they have bans to place children in constitutional facilities - into other types of care, so just for illustration: Hungary even above the border - to 1. 1. 2020 are data - 12 years, Poland 10 years, Croatia 7 years, Romania 7 years, Slovakia 6 years, Serbia 3 years. I deliberately took those member countries of the Council of Europe that are closer to us as Eastern European or Central European countries. I'm not even talking about those that are west of our border. So the proposal you have in the Houses of the 911 press is not only about increasing and improving foster care, but there is also an amendment on which we have worked together across the political spectrum, so it is not just the pirát, it is not just the YES movement, it is not just - another political party, so that the order does not touch anyone. I think we've all joined together here, and we've used various prints to do it. Some, and that is probably what my colleague Aleš Juchelka will be talking about, are more complex and regulate, say, in a more systematic way, the related legislation. Some are not so complex, they focus on not placing children in constitutional facilities only on the narrower issue and, of course, by not needing a comprehensive amendment, so further legislative action will still have to be taken during the next parliamentary term. However, we have finally decided, those of us, and of course, as with every law, we have a free vote, who believe that the time has ripened, so that the Czech Republic does not place children under three years of age, when we see and compare the age limit, that is the minimum minimum minimum, into constitutional facilities, and that it has two and a half years to transform it, two and a half years, to improve the foster care system even more, so those of us who think in this way will support the amendment, where it is mentioned first, and on which we have been involved, Mrs Richterová. Everyone will then be able to see how each of us voted. I wanted to stop by one more thing that I didn't stress last time. On June 17, the European Committee on Social Rights critically criticized the Czech Republic and accused it of violating the rights of the smallest children, because in those constitutional institutions - we know them as infant formulas, but they are not called children's homes for children under the age of three - the mental, emotional and other need of the child is not ensured so as to guarantee that in his later life the stay in the institution will not be negatively imprinted on his psyche. Of course, there are studies that show us that statistically significantly more often such children end up in the care of experts in the field of, say, mental health, psychologists, psychiatrists, not telling us about other, more serious disorders of a social nature. So it is one thing that we are faced with the great criticism of the European Committee on Social Rights here. And the other thing, and it touches me, and here I'm going to confess to you. I will come forward between the seventh and the ninth, which is always roughly every ten years, before the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, and I will defend the report by the Czech Republic, which at that very point concerns the 2011 criticism that we have not yet taken any legislative and organisational steps. As I wish I could say, we took that step at the meeting on August 6, 2021. And that's why those of you across the political spectrum who mean it, those who forget a moment about election campaigns, those who don't care if the proposal was signed by a pirate, someone behind the Yes, KDU-ČSL movement, the SPD, so they could raise their hand, and start a system that will ensure that children under three years of age in the future, and I hope that it will soon be children under six, end up in qualified families to provide replacement care. And if anyone here is still hesitating and saying: but what will happen to them in those three years?, I can assure you that we already have very good crisis centers where the child can be for three, extended to six months, that we already have a network of smaller centres that will ensure that the child doesn't get into the word and the letter on the street, and that there are, of course, exceptions to how those of you who have read the amendments know well that we will not divide sibling groups, that children with severe disabilities will not be left without help, on the contrary, in specialised departments. Of course, that's what we're counting on. Thus, no child, but especially the healthy one, which could grow up in a different environment than the constitutional one, will remain without help. Therefore, I would like to ask you, please, rather ask you to consider this before the vote. Because the fact that each of us likes to raise our hand to raise our foster parents' rewards is not something we need to discuss here. We all know that. They're so-called cheap points. It wasn't laciný for those who negotiated it at the Treasury. And I know something about it, and I'm not going to name it here, because it would already be politics. But the hat down, it went well and for itself as a Human Rights Commissioner, thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. But raising your hand in order for children within three years to get out of institutional facilities in two and a half years, that will take some courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, too. The next in the debate will be Mrs Olga Richterová. I'll ask you to delete Mrs Válková from my factual remarks. Thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u4	Thank you so much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the words made by Mrs Helena Válková here. I'd just like to poke out about four things that have been said. That caring for children in the surrounding countries and directly in Eastern Europe is based on the scientific knowledge that, unfortunately, institutions are harmful to young children. This shows that Hungary has children's homes for children over 12 years of age, Poland for children over 10 years of age or Croatia and Romania for children over seven years of age. Neighbor Slovakia places small children in family care up to six years of age. On this comparison, ladies and gentlemen, I want to show that all of these countries have made it. And I will sharpen outside the European Union. Serbia, which only accepts three-year-olds and older children to their homes, also managed to do so. That's why I want to give you one more time the possibility of moving on to transformation. Most of our country's regions have mastered it, but there are still a few regions left, where the motivation has not been so intense so far. That was the one thing I wanted to poke. It's a vote in procedure under letter C, points 1 to 11. It is an amendment where there are indeed many of us from different parties. I would stress that this is an initiative that is particularly professional. None of us, I think, want to usurp the effort that expert organizations have made over the last 20 years to explain how life-threatening unfortunately is the absence of one caring person, stable, unchanging, for young children. The second thing I would like to say about this proposal on this important possibility is the time transition. There are two amendments recorded there. It is a deadline until the end of 2023 or the end of 2024. We just have two and a half years of transition. Please bear in mind that these are only 228 children per year, at least that was the case, the current numbers, so roughly 19 children per county, and most of them return to their original families. So the second thing I want to stress: if, instead of the 70,000 crowns a month on the bed, 70,000 crowns a month on average in the infant's hospital, if instead of putting a fraction of that money into prevention, we put in support of the families - because simply the vast majority of families then get the children back - they would be able to make sure they didn't have to be taken away at all. It's to say exactly, two-thirds of the children who come back from infant homes to their biological families. So that's where we can prevent the placement into the care facility. By the way, it's often this location, the child removal, associated with the loss of housing. Then I wanted to say the third thing. Again, it has already been said, but let me stress it. We have not forgotten the more complex groups, the larger sibling groups, there is an exception for them. Or children with severe disabilities. There's an exception again. I'm sorry, but we're realistic about how we couldn't handle this other than institutional care. We have a number of small transformed devices that provide support and accompaniment to families of children with severe disabilities, providing lightening care, and we would very much like to see all existing infant formulas going in this direction. To support families who have had a child with severe disabilities and who need relief and help. The fourth thing-- it hasn't come out yet, and I'm going to try to highlight it. Unfortunately, children who are placed in institutional care with us are very often moving. Unfortunately, in practice, they go through a number of institutions during their childhood and teenage years. Because they're moving from a nursery to a children's home for younger children today, then they often go to another children's home for school. It's not fair to them at all. On the contrary, when we look at specific numbers, as it was last year, 95.5 percent of children from temporary foster care went into a permanent family. So that's what we should focus on. Not to move children from one type of institutional care to another type of institutional care, but to provide them with a stable family as soon as possible. I'll take a little turn. It would also help to strengthen the so-called pre-adop position so that it can be used as much as possible in children, where they are expected to be legally free to be placed as if in a pre-adoptic way to future parents. Very often they really stay there afterwards. One last thing. It's just the workers, the Institute workers, can do their best, they can do their best, but unfortunately, the principle of changing shifts and the large device doesn't suit the biological needs of young children. They just need to have at least one stable arm on them, the one person who will bury them day and night. Being a foster kid like that is a 24-hour job seven days a week. It's a job that's very responsible and work that hasn't been appreciated yet. I am pleased - and I would then move on to the other amendments we have there - that we will therefore vote on increasing the remuneration of foster parents. There are a number of suggestions. We've presented specifics for the pirát. And for what I am particularly glad, those foster pay will be tied to minimum wage, so we should no longer be trapped in the future, that eight years will stagnate the foster reward, because the law has not been opened by the Chamber of Deputies. By the way, the novel we're discussing is actually here about a year and a quarter. This minimum wage will ensure that we no longer have to deal with rewrites in the laws, but simply valorisation of inflation will work, the pay of the foster family will not continue to decline. It seems very important to me because they are a very important part of our welfare and we will show that we appreciate them enough and that we can just do the job. Because the work of temporary foster parents couldn't be done for almost that money these days. I will mention very briefly that, in addition to proposals 8504 and 8505, which contain the age limit and the end of placing the smallest children in institutional care, with the exceptions for children with a more severe degree of disability or members of larger sibling groups, so, of course, we are making proposals to increase the remuneration of various types of foster parents with the minimum wage. It's draft number 8470. If anyone's interested, they can find it in the House system. We have there just to pay 1.5 times the minimum wage up to 2.5 times in exceptional situations, care for children with severe disabilities and larger groups. Then there's one important aspect. We have proposed to separate the remuneration of caring relatives in such a way that the difference of needs can be taken into account in the future. Nursing relatives simply need different support and other services in order to be able to divide both financial and professional in this area. There are more amendments that go in this direction. But once again, I recommend this proposal number 8470. I think it's most sophisticated, that it covers the whole range. We have yet tabled Amendment 8467, which defines the definition of a young adult in order to better define the circumstances under which a young person is entitled to the provision allowance for young adults, under which circumstances he is entitled to these children who leave foster care and foster homes. In proposal 8468 we propose to adjust the amount of the contribution and especially the regular increase depending on the minimum wage. Here again, I would like to recommend your attention, my fellow Members, it is a proposal that once again cuts the fixed figure by law and puts in a minimum wage coefficient so that it can be left alone for years, not to open for years. [[9.30 hours]] Then we tabled Amendment No 8469, which requires regional authorities to publish regularly, and I will now stress this, in a pseudonymized form - i.e. not to know specifically - the number of applicants for family replacement care and also the number of children to whom the region is intended to provide an alternate family. It's a minor adjustment. The regional authorities are in charge of it anyway, they have the information, so it is not a burden for them, but it would make the whole process of finding new applicants for alternative care transparent, and there we perceive the huge complaints of foster parents across the region, and it would also make the whole process of finding new applicants for alternative care more credible. And since we need them, we need foster parents, so let's make this move. This would also facilitate cross-border cooperation in this area. And we also have two suggestions where number 8466 returns to the law the possibility that in a facility for children requiring immediate assistance, i.e. in so-called. The protection of children was also provided at their own request. It may have accidentally fallen out in the amendment, the request itself, and it would actually mean a huge step backwards with regard to the participation of children such as 12-year-olds, 13-year-olds in their own destiny. There are several lower dozens of children every year, it just doesn't matter, it's not even 60, it's somewhere 20-30 children a year, which, of their own volition and at their own request, will turn to those devices. And I guess we all agree that around the age of 12, 13, it's logical that they're able to decide if they just need to ask for help because it's not good at home. And unfortunately, it just fell out of the novel, so we want the child's own request to be maintained. That's draft No. 8466. And then even a proposal 8503, which returns to the law again by the changer - into the law on special court proceedings - a 24-hour period for the decision in the so-called. a rapid interim measure. We are concerned that when the 24-hour deadline is lifted, there are unnecessary delays in cases where decisions need to be made without delay. So these are the concrete improvements that we are proposing to the whole amendment to the Children's Social-Legal Protection Act. Then there's one more important step. In proposal No 8473 is also devoted to the conditions of children living in homes for people with disabilities, for example. It is a proposal that specifically describes that it is not right for children in these institutions to be placed in the same households as adults, which unfortunately happens often in these homes today, but above all it gives a limit on the number of children per worker. So it's a proposal that would give children more accurate protection in terms of conditions, for example, in those homes for people with disabilities. It is once again important, it goes hand in hand with the complex thinking of the proposal for an age limit for those possibilities of institutional care in young children. So, please, dear colleagues, let us not only approve of the increase in the remuneration of the foster family today, but also of the minimum wage, so that we do not have to open this law again in a few years on the basis of the legitimate pressure of the foster family. Let us also approve an increase in professional support, where today we have the documents from the Ministerial Institute, the Labour Research Institute and Social Affairs, which states that the replacement family would actually need approximately CZK 70,000 a year, or professional support in this value, but today the contribution is CZK 48,000. And now I stress - it goes, for example, to psychological support, therapy or support some lightening through camps and babysitting, but most often there is therapy and accompanying, professional accompanying. A complete conclusion. When you vote, please bear in mind that this is a law that has been awaited for many years again and that it can move us closer to the West from the one and not Eastern Europe, but rather from an approach that does not apply at all. Please vote with respect to the smallest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u5	Well, thank you, too. And with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the amendment to the Act on Social Law Protection for Children, which we are discussing here, our SPD movement is crucial for the future form of regulation of the functioning of foster care, because the work of foster parents, which is also literally a mission, consisting in providing care for lonely and endangered and often disabled children, is a socially extremely important matter and is also in clear public interest a dignified financial evaluation. That is why SPD member Lucie Šafránková has made a proposal to this amendment for a significant increase in the remuneration of foster parents, which is currently lacking in our country, and the situation is worse every year. The number of foster parents has long fallen and the number of new foster care applicants has fallen. We therefore propose an increase in monthly financial remuneration for the SPD, both for the so-called "SPD." long-term foster parents, especially in so-called replacement, short-term foster parents whose evaluation is now completely inadequate. Since 2013, the minimum wage has been increased several times, which we welcome and support, but the remuneration of foster parents has not been adequately increased in this period. Within the framework of the remuneration of the foster family, the care of the disabled, dependent on the care of other people, which is much more demanding, not only financially, but standard care for a healthy child, has not been adequately taken into account and distinguished. In addition to such demanding foster care, it is not yet possible to work on another job, even partially, because it is often work literally 24 hours a day. If we do not financially support the exercise of foster care, the number of abandoned and endangered children placed in institutional care will increase in the future, thereby increasing public spending in the form of the cost of this type of care in residential facilities, because we will not have any other option to ensure this care adequately. Furthermore, we also propose to introduce an automatic valorisation mechanism into the Child Social Protection Act, i.e. this law, whereby the remuneration of foster parents would increase on a regular basis on the basis of annual growth of the real average wage in the national economy. I beg you to support these SPD proposals as well as the accompanying resolution concerning the unification of the methodology for accompanying organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Milan Brázdil will make a point of fact. I'll read the apologies. Mr František Vácha apologizes today for personal reasons, Mr Navrkal apologizes for personal reasons for today's meeting between 9.00 and 9.00 10 minutes. And Mr Radek Holomčík for family reasons today. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the previous speakers. The fact that we all agree here that the baby is just supposed to be with the parents, and if the parents aren't interested in him, then some substitute person who would have love for him, we all understand that. But in these nursing homes, at least from my practice in Olomouc County, where we drive very often with rescue services not only, I don't know, to torpedoes, epileptic seizures, but there are children who have serious diseases, hydrocephalo and so on, and who will - clearly, those children who are healthy will be placed in foster care, but who will take care of those children who are seriously ill? Shall we return them to the hospital? I don't think that's where the development's gonna get better. Where are the kids that the foster parents won't be interested in because they can't handle it? Or let's face it, this care is really, really serious. That needs a medic. I mean, if there's anything you can tell me about this, I'd be happy to. I totally agree with the fact that children are supposed to have love and so on, but they're also sick in the baby homes. I mean, if you guys have it all figured out, I just didn't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And the next in the debate will be Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there aren't many of us here today, or at least for the debate itself. Anyway, I believe that I will convince at least some colleagues who are reluctant to vote today not to support those amendments that would just allow the interference or the possibility of putting children into institutional care. I may repeat myself in a lot of ways, but I really appreciate the work of people in nursing homes, because these people don't do it to get jobs to get money, but especially because they have it as a mission and they want to help those kids that unfortunately have to be placed there for any reason. We're talking here, or my previous speakers here were talking about the ideal condition for children to be in families. I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't want every child to have a loving family. But at the same time, we have to pour some pure wine and figure out what practice is. Unfortunately, and even that period of pandemics has unfortunately made the situation worse and worse. Clean statistical data show this, as well as other reports by Czech Television, which have been very intensive about this, that the situation in children and children's behaviour is getting significantly worse, not only in older ones, but unfortunately also in the smallest ones. The fact that we have a few kids here a year that are really unwanted after the birth, we know that's a bare fact. Yes, these children are de facto allowed to go into temporary foster care immediately and immediately seek long-term care, preferably foster care, but for us we think that the best adoptive family, because the child would never find his family anywhere else, or that the return to the family is impossible. But then we have children who are abused by families who are abused by families. Very often, they are children under the age of three. I'm stressing this because we're talking about children who, of course, have symptoms of mental disorders and, of course, health. And whether you like it or not, 90 percent, and I will stand by it, the current transitional foster parents that we have in the Czech Republic are not able to deal with the situation in these children. I know we even have foster parents, where there are paramedics, or where a nurse or husband is a paramedic, and so on. That's so cool. But on the other hand, we have a really large percentage, where all these children need is caressing, behavior and trying to give them love. It's really necessary here to look at it from the medical point of view and from the other solution we have. I would also like to point out that the infant formulas, as the proposed proposal by Mr Juchelka may refer to them, have been transformed into so-called transformations for at least 10 years. Babies' constitutions today, as you know, already have family types in many regions, they are also needed in apartments. We see it a lot in Plzeň. But maybe in Kladno they do a lot of work, and I was there recently, by helping those mothers who are trying to be with their children, but it makes it a problem for different health or mental problems. This means that they are staying in their facilities, helping them to work on their child care, helping them, counseling them, and so on. We don't see that in a foster home. And one thing I would like to stress: whether foster parents are to help children return to their original family or prepare long-term families, so much so forceful that they can live in a facility where they are provided with all care, and at the same time there is an effort for the parent to take care of the baby himself and not be separated at the same time, unfortunately, a large amount of those foster families cannot logically provide that. When I came home from this House last week, I got a call. I'm not gonna say who, but one device. And I found out that we had already reached the style of the Nordic countries, when the children were taken away from their mother, child, and social workers told their mother on the phone and took the child into the foster family. It was because just one mother was placed with her six - year - old child in a nursing home or a children's centre, and unfortunately there was an accident. When changing the baby fell from the crib and had to be hospitalized. The child was fully breast-fed, which means, mom went to the hospital with the child, she was with him, and the social worker, called the mother that based on this fact the child is taken away and goes into foster care. I don't know if you can imagine it, but we're really putting ourselves in the Nordic country style by trying, or by actually trying to separate her own child from her mother, even though she's mentally or socially ill, and we're more or less looking for a way to put the baby right into the foster family. And I think that's a very bad way to go. And as a mother, I can't imagine this situation at all. Then we have other things. You're saying we have children here who would be placed in other facilities. A colleague named Juchelka talked a lot about it. You call it a device requiring immediate assistance or a device for disabled people. But we have to say openly that these devices have completely different personnel facilities, that is, personnel equipment, so let me use it as part of the medical speech, but they're not able to give adequate help the way they did in the infant institution. I know that we in the Ústí Region are a little different because we are the most aware of the impacts there. But maybe I asked again about the statistics of children in children's homes. And let's face it, if we actually have almost 100 percent fullness throughout the Republic in children's homes, don't you think it's an atrocity to say that children don't belong in institutional care when we're almost filled with them? And that we're talking about whether these kids, and I mean all the age limits, that we're actually creating this kind of alibism here, and we're thinking that it's actually possible in other countries. I asked, too, we're dealing with it. Yes, such family-type facilities were created in Slovakia, but they are still transformed by the children's centres and infant formulas. The people who worked at the baby homes are still working there. I'm not saying it's wrong. I think they may have gone a little better there, but to ban a child from institutional care, if you really have a very often situation where a foster parent doesn't want to take a child of some type, he doesn't want to, he just has different reasons. And that constitutional facility is the last option for the child where it can be placed. To a large extent, they are, yes, sibling groups to which you speak, that there are exceptions. That sounds pretty ridiculous to me after that. So I'm having fun here, if we really want to have a situation and put our thumb up on it, so that we have kids here that we don't have anywhere to put, or we're gonna fight them, literally throw them into devices that aren't suitable for them. [[9.50 hours]] Let's go, then, create here in cooperation with the experts who are engaged in these children, because you've forgotten, you're not talking to the people who take care of the children in those facilities. You don't talk to those child psychologists, you don't even talk to the other people who actually work with them, the doctors, the physiotherapists and the other people who need them. There's just alibiism, the populism of election campaigns, because the motto is, the baby's best in the family. Yes, but when the family hurts the baby? If the family doesn't want a baby? And if the family actually catches up with the baby or the situation so that the child can die? Don't be mad at me, so it's better to place the baby when it doesn't go into the foster family, even the management where it's very, very well taken care of. They don't torture them there, they don't hurt them there, they try to help them there. I understand that there is a need to be European here and to show how the Czech Republic, as well as in lawsuits that have once again put nonprofit organizations on the Czech Republic, can meet them. And I'm not ashamed to say that babies' homes are supposed to be part of the child care system, because babies' homes aren't hurting themselves, there's an effort to help them. And why do we have kids in nursing homes for so long? Because in 2013, the system, possibilities and permissions for children were changed. And they don't want to keep them there in the baby homes if they're legally free, but unfortunately, legislation makes it impossible for a short-term option for a child to be placed in long-term care as quickly as possible. It's all about paperwork, the legislation. And this is where I think we should start, because that's where the number of children would start to fall significantly not only in the infant homes, but also in the children's homes. And we really need to think about what the practice is, what the reality is, and not just talk about populist things here, because we don't just have kids to help work with families, where we can help to have services for them. We're talking about children who are unwanted, abused and abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u11	[[He's talking without a respirator.]] Thank you, too. For health reasons, Mr Španěl apologizes for the whole day. We have four factual points here. The first factual point is Mrs Olga Richterová, Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared. It's easier to understand without the drape. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will specify the really inaccuracies of the previous speakers, namely: social service, that is, so that mothers and children can be trained and can simply learn what they can't do, which can continue to work. This is, of course, the main important thing that has been said here in an inaccurate way, which is allowed by the proposal. Secondly, as far as children with severe disabilities are concerned, of course, there remains the possibility of care called constitutional, but from the way it looks in those transformed infant formulas, as far as I know, Strančice, whether it be Veska in the Pardubice Region - I quote the specific examples where I think they do it very well - so there is care in the institute, but it actually meets the characteristics of the community household to a large extent, not quite, but to a large extent, yes. And that's actually the way, the way. And then it was great, it did not succeed in this proposal, but to add the system to the future not only about today's already very wide professional support for foster parents so that, of course, children with disabilities - and many have children with severe disabilities at home - but also to create specialized ones, let's call them therapists, foster parents precisely for the situations of children especially abused and neglected, where it is extremely difficult and complex. But I want to point out, these are the children who need the most security, the security of a constant caring person. The trauma is so deep and emotional that it's where it's most debatable that they're placed in institutions. But I would point out that two thirds of the children from the infant institutions are returning to their original families because they were more of a social problem. And as for the health aspects, we're taking it into account so that no child stays out of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. I've only been very brief. If any family is dysfunctional and needs it, and no one wants it, of course, no one wants it, but it is necessary to remove the child, so the best thing is that it is given again to some care of the family or care of one person, i.e. foster care. Here, it was said from Mrs Aulická Jírovcová that a child had been taken away and put into foster care, and this was taken badly. But that's the bad work of the bottom, that has nothing to do with the baby's constitution or the non-abytes' constitution. And let's think about the fact that one child in a nursing home costs 70,000 crowns a month. That's just big finance. And when we compare it to the benefits of foster parents, and when we compare it to a system that is now very poorly developed, and that is a system of support for the very people who take care of their child with disabilities, lightening services, and so on, of course, we're going to develop the lightening services. But really the first step is and should be to make it clear that it is simply given that the children are better off with one person or a foster couple, and it is actually necessary to give it to this sort of adjustment, to go the way that other advanced states do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u15	Another with a point of fact, Mr Radim Fiala - cancels. Mrs Helena Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm fine with the two minutes. I have to react - now I admit I'm going to be emotional. But Mrs Aulická, by your means, when she says that she understands that we must be European somehow, I am offended. Because I am glad that we are European, and I am therefore quite proud to be a citizen of the Member State of the European Union and I am glad that we are European. So that's supposed to sound like a microphone. And these notes, I don't understand in the context of placing children under three years of age in establishments outside a constitutional facility. So it's not that we have to be European somehow. We want to be the same as the countries that were quoted here, not to mention those countries that had it a long time ago. We definitely want to be European. And I believe that most of us sitting here know what we are talking about when we talk about our country's belonging to Europe in this context. And the second point concerns what - I think it was a colleague Milan Brázdil. And he received Mrs Richterová's reply, through you, Mr Vice-President. I still want to add that of course there are families - and I really have photographs here, I like them to the Member or Members of Parliament, Mrs Aulická or Mr Brázdil, because I have the consent of the foster parents - who take care of very seriously ill, with a permanent disability, children precisely because they need lasting emotional support. [[shows]] But it's not a solution. It's not a system solution. And there was an indication of what the system solution was. I don't want to drag those two minutes, but we certainly could never go to that step if we were the ones who needed it the most, and those are the children with disabilities, we didn't have a clear idea of what would happen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u18	I would perhaps still like to hear from my previous speakers, both on my response, through Mr President, I would say that the pressure of the methodology from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is mainly there, because they come to me as social workers on the bottoms, curators and so to deal with the situation, because, although you may not admit it, so many of your colleagues and municipalities, in schools and so on, solve situations every day, where unfortunately they simply want to deal with incidents of unmanageable children, with whom unfortunately they cannot continue to work, because it is not appropriate, or that no one really can say the way anymore. [[10.00 hours]] And one thing I would mention here, and I have one minute. We've all been getting hundreds of e-mails to support the possibility of banning institutional care within three years. And I have to say, one of my colleagues said he thanked you for the e-mail. More or less, he said that he was willing to help if the lady in question wanted to become a foster child, or if he could still do so to accommodate children with a disability. And the lady replied in a way that cool, that this is a starting solution and that it would be best if the foster mom got 50,000 for each child, because the mortgage that the lady has, 30,000, and she leaves immediately. So please, we really don't want to go this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u19	Mr Leo Luzar will make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while I am quite foreign to this subject, I have nevertheless been provoked by certain figures that have been made on this microphone. First of all, there is talk here, and as a red thread, there is a theme that the current state is tragic. The state of affairs is bad, it severely depresses children, they have to turn to psychiatrists, psychologists and others in huge numbers, because this system doesn't work. That's the kind of dehoness of those people who have been taking care of these kids for 40, 50, 60 years, that sounds like a support argument here to change this system, that it can't leave a cold nobody who's been doing something around baby homes! These people are selfless, and they don't deserve the dehonest that they're doing something wrong, and that the kids they're raising, then they have to have psychological, psychiatric, and other examinations for them. And the second figure that was said here that two thirds of the children are going back to their original families because the education was interrupted mainly for social reasons. If this figure is true, it is precisely an argument for maintaining infant formulas, because if we put these two-thirds of the children into families with an individual approach, then ties will begin. Social and family ties. Those parents can even fall in love with these children, and then they are very hard to get into their original families. And they always come first. So we're going to start creating another problem here. So if the figure is true that two thirds of these children are going back to these families, that's the argument for maintaining infant formulas. Only that one-third of the kids might make sense. But I'm coming back again: Please don't hit the existing system and those people who really sacrificed their entire professional life to raise little children and don't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u21	Good morning, honourable Members. I'm going to ask my colleague Jaroslava Puntová to wait, because I have now four more factual points. First of all, Olga Richterová's point of fact, then a colleague of Čižinský, then a colleague of Jurečka, then Mrs Markéta Pekarová's Adamová, and the fifth one is from Aleš Juchelka. So five factual points. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to my previous speaker, my colleague Luzar. It is precisely that the connection to social problems shows that we have, in particular, huge holes in prevention. Huge holes in support of families that have it in different ways complicated, and they are often families of children who have themselves passed through children's homes. It just takes nine months, six months to get to know each other, and a lot of moms just need to work on time, right now. And this number, that two-thirds of the kids are going back to their biological families because they weren't being abused, but the family didn't have enough conditions, shows what kind of trouble it would be to pass the next law, the material emergency that's supposed to come in order after, because it would only increase the number of these children who get into the institutions unnecessarily for social reasons. That's one thing. And the other thing. Please, the damage to little children by staying in an institution is just a scientific fact. There are dozens, if not hundreds of studies. The job can be done as well as it pleases. We are all trying to stress over and over again that this is not meant in any way against those existing employees. On the contrary, just like in Slovakia, most of those who now work where they are will either remain working in those transformed centres supporting children with severe disabilities, or maybe become specialized foster homes for children with disabilities at home. That's a specific example of the Vesca where they did it exactly like that. But I want to stress what happens to those little children who have no emotional attachment. So it just takes years when they're in the family before some emotional reactions get normal before they're able to have, like, no trauma when a close person just leaves the room. These are crazy things that happen just because at that early age, they didn't have anyone emotionally attached to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u23	Madame, your time for a point of fact has come to an end. Now, the factual remark made by my colleague Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to respond to my colleague Luzar. A child under six years of age, if he is not placed in a family or does not live with one person who cares for him, then carries a whole life of disability. It's obvious in him, and his whole life he can't get away with not being able to establish relationships. Who's here, and they're here between us, like a colleague of Válková, who has or has a child in foster care, so confirm that these kids either don't like anyone, or, on the contrary, they like everyone they meet. Every worker who works in a nursing home knows that, of course, this fact, and he should wish those children weren't in the hospital to be in the family. And if it was mentioned here that a nursing home was a better solution than temporary foster care, then please, that's not true at all. Transitional foster care is a much better solution than a nursing home. And if we know that children carry disabilities, if they are raised in institutional care within six years, then we should abolish the infant formulas within six years. It's very sad that the support isn't here. I suggested it, but as I say, it is a very sad reality that there is no support for cancellation in the House within six years. But please let them at least go through the three years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. After a colleague of Čižinský a colleague of Marian Jurečka also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u26	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President, members of the government. I will allow myself to react to the previous speakers, whether it was my colleague Aulická or my colleague Luzar. I don't think there's anybody in here who's criticizing or for God's sakes who's demoting workers and baby workers. There is an undisputed fact that infant formulas have brought about a shift in how to ensure safe care for the child; It's definitely been a shift for about a hundred years. But we are in a situation today where it is possible to find even better ways to ensure good care for the child. It is not about any attitude, if we are being pushed, the European Union is forcing us. Not at all. This is about the approach of humanity, humanism and good care that we should try to provide individually to the child. Ideally in an environment that offers a fully functional family. And I'm gonna talk about it in a proper post, but please, don't put it up against each other this confrontationally! Let's think about where we can do it because of some evolution, thanks to the possibilities of today's time, mainly through foster, whether temporary or permanent, care. And that's what the debate is about today, too, and I'm going to comment on one of the amendments where we can move the quality so that the temporary foster parents or even then the permanent ones can be more. To not only have a higher financial reward, but also to work better with them in the long term, because they are the key people, the key moms, the key dads, who can give children full support, love, the development of their personality and the education of a good person, which I think we all want here. So let's put it this way, how we can make it better, the situation. There's no debate here that infant institutions have brought progress in their day. We did. But we're somewhere else today. Let's talk about where we can move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from my colleague Jan Volný due to illness. Now, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, also with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to speak on my own, but frankly, Mr Luzar's remark has also lifted me from the chair, because it is the worst thing to think that something that worked 50 years ago, and we felt that it was good, so, in view of that, we can say that it is actually a good thing to keep today, and it is desirable for those who are directly concerned. I wish Mr. Luzar had taken a year to actually spend in that institution himself, to see how it is in practice. And I don't think any of us, when we were a child, would want to go away from parents or loving people who take care of us individually. I'm convinced these people are doing the best they can out there, and I don't want to beat them up at all, and I don't think anybody's doing it here. But they can't, with all their good will, simply replace what a caring parent or foster parent can do, because when you switch shifts, you're not 24/7 with that child, as it is in families and foster families. And that's not possible for anyone. That's impossible. And that's why it's not possible to assume that these people are being dehonested. The knowledge simply went on. It has gone on in many ways, in many ways, and in those that Mr Luzar is certainly dedicated to. We also did a lot of things differently 50 years ago. And why shouldn't we move on this one, too? I am convinced that we owe this to these children and that every day that we have not taken the steps that we can now take, we have harmed hundreds, thousands of them, even if not consciously, but it has quite really impacted their lives for many years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u29	Madame, your time for a point of fact has come to an end. Now the factual comment of Aleš Juchelka. She will prepare for another factual remark by Olga Richterová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u30	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna make it very short. This amendment, which we gave together with colleagues Válková and Richterová and others, has an exception, and these are children disabled in the third and fourth levels of disability and sibling groups. Just so we're clear, it's always the question of where we put them. Secondly, I reject the words of Leo Luzar, of course, because if we take a hypothetical family that doesn't like a child, the child takes it away, it goes into institutional care, where Leo Luzar says it's better there too, of course, in some way to lick it without love, without any relationships, so that it can then come back and experience the love in the family where the child was taken away, so I'm against it, because it's mostly months away, years of really getting to know the basics of living from zero to three years of some attachment, some emotional attachment, someone who cares about him, where he has security and safety, just like we have in our families. So I'm rejecting some institutional care without love. I also reject absolutely the fact that there's a balloon being thrown out here that part of the Chamber of Deputies is demoting the work of all those who work in children's homes under the age of three. That's not true at all. On the contrary, we appreciate their work. And my amendment to the Health Services Act, which, unfortunately, is not going to reach the House plenary at all during this parliamentary term, is currently addressing all these experts as part of the transformation into complex care centres. And already our children's home within three years House in Ostrava has transformed and offers in the family environment the care of these experts who are in Ostrava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And your time for a point of fact is over. I will ask my colleague Puntová to wait, because the factual remark of Olga Richterová will be followed by the factual remarks of Marek Výborný and Patrik Nacher. That's just so we know the order. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u32	Thank you so much for the floor. I think there's still a misunderstanding here, and that is not understanding that - a little bit of lapidated - for the money, for the 70,000 a month bed in a nursing home, we're simply able to give a much better care as a society, which, despite all the efforts in the institutions, is not possible to give purely from the institution's settings. There an individual can try as he pleases, and I think we all realize there are many loving people working there, but just those children for one aunt are too many. And small children with a different family history need to be treated as specialists. Not every specialist comes to that facility. And that's one example of what I know from foster parents, how intense they drive, they go to different therapies with that foster kid of theirs. And not in every constitutional facility, there are so many specialists who go there to ensure that it is purely logistical. Or a second example, of course, of any kind more specialised medical care is also driven. Just like all of us are going to the hospital, when something happens at home, they go to the hospitals from the nursing homes, or there's an ambulance. But they don't have staff anymore so someone in the hospital can be with the baby. So the foster child is in the hospital with her foster child very often, but the baby from the nursing home is there alone. Alone. And one last thing. Physically, it's not even possible to carry the smallest children in a stroller outside, so where there aren't enough volunteers, maybe from the second floor, like in that big baby home in Most, those little children can't get out. And on that point, it's nothing against the workers, but that's the logistical and background of an institution that doesn't allow what children need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Marek the Výborný's point of view. Patrik Nacher will be ready, then Hana Aulická Jírovcová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, I would like to respond to a factual remark on the debate that is going on here and to the words of my colleague Luzar and others. I'm a little sorry that this debate is moving away from what should be the center of its content and interest, and this is the child's interest, the child's healthy development, his care, his upbringing, and that it is moving into a debate about the quality or poor quality of institutional care and infant care. I find it very unfortunate, because nobody here is questioning the work of all those who work in infant care, fully applying, but it is the child's interest, his healthy development, his healthy upbringing. And here it is quite obvious, it has been said here since the previous speakers that it can actually be provided by the caring person in the family, where the child remains in the family environment. I think it's very important. And of course, and once again, there will be cases, and even the amendment remembers when it is not possible. And then the situation is secured. So let's just really go that way, and I'm proud of it for going the way it's standard in European countries. And this is how we should proceed. And I believe that this is how we will stand up to it as the Chamber of Deputies. And thing B. It is, of course, also a thrown glove for the next political representation after the elections, because if there is something missing, it is a question of professionalising foster care, even at legislative level. Yes, it is critical to say here that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not done enough and we must correct this in the coming months or next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual remark by Patrik Nacher. Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u36	Good morning. I'm not an expert on this. I'm sure I'll leave it to my colleague Helena Válková and Aleš Juchelek. But I had to respond to the words spoken here by my colleague Aulická or Leo Luzar. I don't think the thing is that when someone wants those kids to move from nursing kids to foster families, they say people work badly in nursing kids. That's not what this thing is. It's just that when it's said that at least at the age of children under the age of three, the infant institution isn't appropriate, it doesn't result in people working badly, but that it's just not appropriate. [[10.20 hours]] Only when I've been involved in some discussions, just the thing that this kid basically sees someone completely different every day, someone foreign, he has to get used to it. It's just something you can't replace even with the best care. That's impossible. This means that there are some objective things that are in favour of the infant institutions, however much they would all be cut up there. So I would just ask that we not have this debate here in the sense that whoever is in favour of the amendment doesn't actually appreciate the work of the people who work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Jaroslava Puntová will prepare for a proper application. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u38	Thank you so much for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, when I came here this morning, I thought that perhaps enough colleagues and colleagues have reason and that they would not really support these amendments. Of course, we know with colleagues from the pirát or others who, of course, will support him. But what surprised me from KDU colleagues, where I spoke with Mrs Golasowská, I know that colleague Vít Kaňkovský has such a reserved view in his practice. But okay, it's an opinion, I get it, it takes populism before the election. In any case, I would just like to say that the facts that are given here by some colleagues are simply stated either purposefully or falsely. Really go see when you go home from this House today, to those children's centers, how it works there, what kind of services they provide and what kind of children they take care of, and then come back here and try to change your mind and perspective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Jiří Běhounek with a factual remark, colleague Puntová is full of understanding for factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I've been listening to pros and cons for a long time. I understand, of course, that you're all led by goals, thoughts, but please nicely, the reality is completely different. We will certainly not provide this care as Members. So, you and these people really, really, really, really get together and don't bring forward or discuss wishes. But really look at the facilities and see how many times these kids have to come back because the family and foster parents can't take care of them. Realistically, let's get to the vote, because I see that once again, all led by a great heart to say it, that it is necessary, that we do not declare it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and Mrs Jaroslava Puntová, who is now duly registered, will be ready to speak in the debate, Aleš Juchelka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, members of the government. I won't be able to speak like my colleague, but I must say that everything that my colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová has said here is true. Because we're both from Most, and I've been working at a nursing home in Most for ten years, so I'd like to give you a few examples from practice. Our goal was not only to provide child protection and care, but above all to find a foster family. So the headmistress used to go on TV on some kind of show, sometimes with kids, and through the TV show, she was looking for a foster family for the kids. Sometimes it did, sometimes it didn't. I remember parents who had a child in their long-term stay, and all those legal acts that were necessary were being handled - by the way, they always lasted for a very long time. Then the situation in the family changed and the baby got back to us. I remember young husbands who were excited to take a child from a nursing home, but the social worker was looking into a family history and found out that we couldn't give them a child. I myself accepted a six-month-old baby in my department, which, of course, I took home, and the whole family was excited and we wanted to take the baby into the family. But as I was saying, all the procedures were very lengthy, so in the finals, a biological mother appeared with a lawyer and asked to bring the baby back together, and we had to give her the baby. International adoption worked very well with us, so most of the children who were, say, different ethnicities went abroad, and then we learned back how they were doing, and most of them were doing very well. Of course, there were children with disabilities, and the extent of care they needed in view of their disability. And if they were getting into families, they were mostly the families of those workers who cared for them from the very beginning when they came to us. We could have transferred the children at the age of three to a welfare facility, but she didn't usually accept or have a vacancy like this. So those kids stayed with us mostly for the rest of their days anyway. I recently saw a post on Facebook by a temporary foster mom describing the situation that she was about to end up having a baby in her care, and that there weren't actually long-term foster parents for that kid. And here I see just the risk with these kids, if long-term foster parents aren't. As a big problem, I see the lack of long-term foster parents. There is a lack of social workers. For example, in Most, social workers have so many families to handle, that basically they have to spend their free time doing so. The Babies' Institute in Most has accreditation, which means that there may be children in this facility who are at risk, of course there may be mothers who are in distress, we helped them not only in the care of the child, but also in the search for facilities to be with the child. We trained long-term foster parents. And here I would just mention that it was mostly family relationships, and it depended on the age of the foster parents. If they were older, they also had sicknesses, and there was a problem to cope with children who were ten or more, they had great problems with it. If they were children with disabilities, they were in the care of relatives, for example, and there it happened that these children were often neglected. The fact that they were wearing the same clothes from Monday to Friday was the least they could do. But these foster parents fought back, didn't want to go to the doctor, didn't want to practice. And if the kid sat down or built up, which was progress for some, it bothered them because they were afraid of losing the contributions they were entitled to. I see a large margin in education, in prevention. That's where I think all the competent authorities should be involved to help these kids. I think time will tell you how good these baby homes are, or not. I wouldn't look abroad at all, even though they do, they have experience there. But what steps will we take if a child finds himself in an emergency? A foster kid could die, he could get sick, anything could change there. And that's what scares me. That's why I'd leave these baby homes as insurance because it's where the baby always finds protection and safety, including his mother. [[10.30 hours]] As far as the rewards are concerned, yes, I agree, but I think most foster parents, if they decide to do this, certainly don't just do it for the money, but it's mainly out of love for those kids and a desire to help them. I wish all children would live in a loving family with Mom and Dad and have a happy childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mrs Puntová, and now Mr Aleš Juchelka, with proper registration, will prepare Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u44	Thank you very much. I'll just be very short. I would like to ask the honourable House for the support of its amendments, whether it concerns the remuneration of the foster family, which are linked, of course, by the valorisation mechanism as well as the overwhelming majority of other amendments, and further on the conflict of custody, the placement of children in the ranks, etc., I would just ask that we may be a little bit faster and more restrained, because we have 76 votes ahead, which is about 90 minutes so that we can still make it, because there are two other important prints - the Social Services Act and the Act on material distress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, colleague Juchelek. Now Mr. Marian Jurečka with proper application, Petr Beitl will prepare. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. Good morning again. So I am now coming in the proper debate to comment on this proposal for an amendment to the Act on Social Law Protection for Children, and also to comment on the amendments that we have tabled here under the KDU-ČSL and which we see as very important. There's a lot of talk here about placing children in nursing homes. As I was saying in my point of fact, I would like us to look at the issue with the real optics of today's possibilities, because the infant constitutions have brought enormous progress in the approach to social protection for children about 90, 100 years ago. That's right, we don't have to convince ourselves of that here. Historical and factual roles were fulfilled, fulfilled and, in fact, in many respects and in the future, they are expected to do so. So there's no negative hint to the infant institutions, to those who work there and do their work with great commitment, they put a piece of their life into it, a piece of their personality beyond that it's just some job. For many of them, it is a life's calling and a mission. It's time to take a bow and say thank you. But we are talking about the fact that today we are able to develop this approach on the development and care of the child in an individual form, thanks to the use of foster parents either transitional or permanent. And today we see that yes, there has been a development of foster care. There are a large number of people and families who have decided to offer this opportunity to share their self with someone else outside their biological children. Personally, I know a lot of parents in my neighborhood, and in a huge way, I bow down to them. But we're running into certain limits here, which are also linked to the financial appreciation of foster work. And that is why my colleague Pavla Golasowská proposal is here, which wants to increase appreciation in a fairly clear way, whether temporary foster care or long-term foster care, and wants to build on, for example, a minimum wage and some multiple coefficients to make it clear the appreciation of foster care. He also wants to be able to distinguish the contribution from the number of children, but also from the possible degree of disability. It is important that when they go into foster care, financially, these people do not get to some existential edge, but are valued in a sufficient way. So, therefore, this proposal by Pavla Golasowská, which clearly states how the contribution to foster care should be increased either for temporary foster care or for permanent care. It has to do with what fellow Member Aleš Juchelka, who was talking about certain valorisation mechanisms, said here a moment ago. That is also necessary, but it is necessary to catch up on what hasn't actually changed in eight or more years. So not only is the need for valorisation in the future, but it is now necessary to increase the amount that should be paid for these parents in order to manage all the claims related to it, and for many of those who have left the offer to have children in foster care for precisely those economical-existent reasons. Of course, from a foster point of view, constant education, appreciation of those people is important. There are regions that do it the perfect way. For example, the Moravian-Silesian Region, Deputy Governor Jiří Navrátil, who has the area, has long been engaged in this problem, tries not only at joint meetings, but also in the form of awards to present, promote in society, and it is important to have a really continuous campaign towards society and to address foster parents in the future, as well as to award those who are already offering a piece of their heart in that system today. So that's one plane - to be able to deal with foster care in the long term, to seek out potential foster parents, to listen to them, to help them not only with the financial support, but also in other ways from the point of view of us as a society, from the point of view of the competent authorities that are there. Then I would like to draw you and your attention to the two amendments that I have taken the liberty of bringing to this press. The two amendments differ slightly in one part of the regulation, but they both aim in one direction, which is aimed at the issue of valorisation of maintenance. In the Czech Republic, we have over one million children who have alimony determined by the court. But if we look at the situation today, the average maintenance is somewhere around CZK 3,000. Let's face it, who you are as parents or who we are as parents, we know the cost of raising, raising children's education, for clubs. In three, for six thousand crowns, this is not easy at all, and I am no longer talking about taking off for life, building savings, and so on, which we usually try to do in families in some way for those teenage children. And when we look at the situation, it's really unsolved for the long term. Nutrient in the Czech Republic is a problem that has been dealt with here only in terms of replacement maintenance. Yes, there has been a shift in this parliamentary term, but there is still a lack of looking at the issue of measure and method of measuring maintenance. A lot of parents pay for that system today. Then there's a big problem in the amount of minimal maintenance. For me, the stories of my parents, who turned to me, for example, with alimony of CZK 100 a month - CZK 100 a month - measured nutritious! This morning, my father, who has children in his care, wrote to me, and my former partner, my mother, received 350 crowns of maintenance for a child who is already a teenager. These are simply sums that are really ridiculously low for parents who are in charge of the baby care. It is not possible to cover the basic cost of food, clothing, energy, housing for such an amount. And we're not talking about other things that involve, for example, some education in leisure activities, such as the question of different clubs, elementary art schools and the like. So I'd like us to pay attention to this, too. Unfortunately, we will not be able to get much more time in this parliamentary term, but at least my position is the proposal that is here, saying that maintenance could automatically valorize on inflation, which, according to the publication of the Czech Statistical Office, could take place automatically. That is, we would solve this by saying that today if a parent wants to valorize the maintenance assessed by a court, he has to go, he has to ask, he has to open a maintenance trial in court, the court has to reconsider the whole thing, he has to communicate with the other partner or parent, and for many of the singles and singles, it's only necessary to keep the communication quite often traumatizing because of text messages, threats, inappropriate expression and so on, and so many parents would rather hide it and say, "I'm not going to do it." There are just singles and singles today, who haven't asked for an increase in maintenance for a few years, some minimal valorisation, and they prefer to keep it that way. And that's irresponsible not only to those parents, but it's irresponsible especially to those children. [[10.40 hours]] That is why I would like to make this proposal so that we can make it clear to the law that the maintenance can simply valorize on inflation in this form. If the partner or former partner has other facts from the point of view that his income has fallen, then of course he can prove it in court and it can be re-evaluated. But to have here the basic valorisation mechanism, which we often talk about in other cases, which we are looking for in the case of minimum wage, in the case of pensions, in the case of other types of benefits and aids, I feel in the case of maintenance as some normal standard, which should be introduced here, because we are mainly talking about the fact that these costs relate to the very children. This money is intended for education, education, providing basic needs for these children. So I come up with this proposal, I beg you to support one of these two amendments. Both of them aim in the same direction to move back to the 21st century. A large number of states, advanced states, have this mechanism in place. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u47	I thank my colleague Jurečka. Before I give the floor to President Beitl, I apologize to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Přemysl Mališ for the whole day of the hearing for family reasons. Now, Mr Petr Beitl, Mr. Petr Beitl, will prepare Markéta Pekarová Adamová, after whom Mr. Vít Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before the final vote, allow me, too, to say a few words and a loud benevolence about how the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs stand to prepare laws to support the protection of the weakest of us, the abused, abandoned and otherwise endangered children. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has promised changes in the system of social and legal protection of children for quite a long time. However, it did not come up with the proposal until one year before the end of the parliamentary term, with a proposal that does not even represent systemic change, but openly admits that it is intended primarily to improve foster homes and facilities for children requiring immediate assistance. It would almost seem that the protection of endangered children works perfectly in the Czech Republic and there is no need to interfere with the set system. That it's enough just to motivate foster parents here and there or to reconfigure the administrative procedures associated with placing children in foster care. How important this point is for Minister Maláčová, it is demonstrated by her absence at this meeting. But I dare say that we do not have the system I was talking about a moment ago, and I expected a much wider feedback from the Ministry on the changes set up in 2013 and their evaluation. I expected this experience to be reflected by the Ministry in the bill presented. I also expected to get accurate and exhaustive data on how vulnerable children travel through the system and whether we can really provide them with the best and stable environment for life. And I thought we'd have hard numbers on how many foster homes we have in the region and whether their capacity was sufficient. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and I think today we are acting more on the basis of feelings than really hard data. But something else happened. In addition to acciting who should be added to more and to whom less, a huge number of amendments came to the government's proposal, without being clear what their implications would be for practice, for the lives of specific children and for specific institutions. Moreover, the reactions that we are likely to receive in recent weeks show that the current system for protecting vulnerable children is volatile, lacking stability, and presenting a collapsing place where many different interests are encountered. Unfortunately, emotions over facts prevail in the debate over possible changes, as I have already said. In this situation, it would be logical that the government, by extension, will take the reins back into its hands and start coordinating the process of preparing this key legislation again. It didn't happen. On the contrary, we are about to face a long and procedurally complex vote and quite openly threaten to see a law out of the Chamber of Deputies that we cannot see through. And that's the last thing I want. I know that the call for well-considered systemic and interlinked changes already sounds like a cliché in parliamentary debates. But right here, we shouldn't resign. Every random hit on the system and its impact should be measured on the pharmacies' scales because they touch the most vulnerable, touch small children who have no one to stand up for them. But I'd like to end up positive. I certainly welcome the proposals for a better assessment of foster families, because they certainly deserve it, and at the same time I welcome the increase in contributions from the community. I would also like to ask you to consider the support for the amendments proposed by the ODS to increase this contribution further. Practice and, after all, the impact of the covid pandemic on the situation of many endangered families show that we really need these facilities in the field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u49	I thank Mr Petr Beitl. Now Markéta Pekarová Adamová, with a proper performance, will prepare Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate about whether or not institutional care is right, whether or not we're supposed to cancel infant formulas, it's been going on for many years, a really long time. On the Committee on Social Policy, the subject appears periodically during this and last term of office, when I am a member of the Committee on Social Policy. And I am only very sorry that, unlike our predecessors, the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs did not make this a priority and that, in essence, it showed and allowed us to speak seriously about this at the end of the parliamentary term. I am absolutely convinced that it is high time - I would even say that it is only five minutes past 12 - that we transform the system of this care with us and follow the pattern of many regions that have done so on their own years ago. They are also like this in the Czech Republic, we do not have to look only abroad, as some of the previous speakers said here that it is something that is pushed from the outside. Pardubice Region, Zlín Region, go there to see how the system has been transformed, how it works today, and that it does not really cause harm to those who are concerned, especially children. On the contrary, it is the path that we should pursue throughout the country. And we have the opportunity today. I will allow one short but really brief excursion into the past, when really in Nečasův' government, which started the change of the system and which has taken a number of good steps that have led to our professional foster parents for a transitional period and so on, was the intention that infant formulas in the Czech Republic for children under three years would not be a reality even after a few years. This means that if the plan had not been fulfilled, which unfortunately did not happen for reasons other than the failure of the plan itself - it was, I don't have to remind you, by the fact that the government ended prematurely - we wouldn't even be talking about it here today, because it would have been solved and hundreds, thousands of children who had been through that care would not have gone through it anymore. So for me, that's the thing that we really owe to those kids that it concerns and that we can change in their behalf. No one puts foster parents versus constitutions into conflict. No one says that those who work in institutions do not try to do their job with the utmost effort and the best of their conscience and will. No one's saying professionals work there either. In short, we already know from development psychology that a child of the smallest age needs a stable background for a caring person with whom he has the opportunity to establish a relationship. Of course, it's the most ideal in the biological family, we can all agree on that. And if that's not possible, then we have a chance to solve it and replace it. But that's the best, nicer, and better functioning infant institution simply doesn't know how to do things, not because of lack of will, interest, professionalism. This is how the knowledge has come to pass in the last decades. So let us respond to it in that our system, which is unfortunately already unique in Europe, because everyone has deviated from it, remains so. [[10.50 hours]] And yes, in those proposals that we have the opportunity to vote here today, there is a solution to how to act in the case of large sibling groups or serious disability and disability. But I would also like to say to the other group that even children who have some disability grow up in normal families, take care of them all the time, and it's normal that if a child is born with a defect or a problem, parents take care of it further. So if that's what foster parents can do, and that's what's going on, then let these kids be taken care of like this. I would like to ask you to support this, to consider supporting those amendments that address this problem, to support raising the remuneration of the foster family, because they are doing an extremely important and worthy job. And I appreciate their work, and I believe they deserve that support from all of us. And I beg you, for the sake of those we are talking about and whose life, whose childhood and teenage years simply do not wait for our meetings. It goes the same way our lives go day after day. And if we want as little as possible those children to go into another life with various psychological traumas, or consequences that they simply bear, then please do it today, this many years-long debate in the Czech Republic, let's cut, end, and let's not fall under the table until the next years and another election period, which would just take away a piece of what could be corrected for those children. Thank you for considering it this way, and I repeat once again, especially for those of us who, for example, the Communist Party, but not only, defend the existing system: it is not the demos of those who work in this care. I appreciate them, too, and I appreciate their work, and I know them very well. Because not only our committee, but also personally, privately, or from my position, I go to every corner of the country to the facilities we talk about, so I don't just take it from the table. This is the best possible procedure, and in this case, I think that we should really, those who have been involved in this for so long, be you others too, with all due respect for what you are dealing with in topics and disciplines, be fully heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. I'm going to ask my colleague Rakušan to wait, although he has priority rights, I have two factual points here. The first is from Petr Dolínek, the second from Ondřej Veselý. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. Well, why did I volunteer? I just felt sorry for the fact that at this point, it seems like the ministry and social democracy just somehow forgot about the kids for four years. I think you have to say, self-critically, that's not how it is. If our Minister and the entire social democracy have been involved in something, it is definitely the area of children, their rights, so that we may take back-up maintenance, so that we may take an increase in allowances, including support for amendments in the House, when better proposals have come than, for example, the Ministry has originally worked. Also in other areas, we certainly had a child in the first place, and I think that social democracy has done its utmost to do so. But I'd like to go with that standard. He said it to one of the previous speakers. The standard made it clear what she was targeting. These were things in the field of rewards and things in some areas. She didn't factor her goal in the beginning, and no one claimed that this was a complete solution to the area. I would like to compare it to what we do in other committees. There will also come up with a law and will say the law maker, the Ministry: we are dealing with this area; there will be another amendment to the next area, which will come according to the agreement between Members, Senators and Government. And today we're trying to graft everything into this standard. I understand. It is the right of every Member, but logically it is a pity that all these things have not been prepared much better. And now I don't mean on the MPSV side. The MPSV is working on it, it will work on it, but at this point, it actually sounds like the MPSV hasn't worked out what it has. But in the field of remuneration, another one actually submitted a proposal that was prepared. Of course, the Members took him very strongly, which is why he returned to second reading. I think we're gonna get a good sense of direction in this vote today, and we're gonna go over the major proposals to get them approved. But I repeat, social democracy has children in the first place, and it will vote in such a way that their rights are certainly improved, their position, and not deteriorated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual remark of Ondřej Veselý. Ready is the Vít Rakušan. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I've already had a twitch at my colleague Beitl's performance, but then I thought it was pointless to have a fight here. It is clear that the ODS MP would probably not praise the Minister for the ČSSD, that was logical. So I didn't want to have this political dispute on such an important law that we're finally voting today. However, I couldn't take it with my colleague Markéta Pekarová. I couldn't stand one thing, and it was to appeal to a good job at the time of Nečasův' reign at the MPSV. Well, I must say, my colleague, that I was mayor at that time, and the reform that was adopted at that time, the so-called Drábkův Reform, the reform of the Minister for the TOP 09, was the worst, the worst, the worst, what happened institutionally in this area. Since then, we have been discussing how to deal with material distress, how to find a bigger whip for those who are experiencing material distress. And it was because of this amendment, or because of this reform. So please let us discuss this law, but let us certainly not say that Drábkův's reform was good because it was the worst thing that happened in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. I have here a factual remark by Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Leo Luzar. Vít Rakušan... Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u56	So I think Mr. Veselý knows very well what reform I was talking about, and he's mixing pears and apples here on purpose, because it's useful here to stir up a certain dispute that takes years. Anyway, since the two previous speakers from social democracy here have already praised the current ministry, Minister Maláčová - which we are greeting for vacation - I think the biggest result of your eight-year reign, of which seven years in this very ministry, i.e. the predecessors, the predecessors of the Minister, the best business card, and the result was if we hadn't dealt with it here at all today, but it already worked in practice. That's what the main message is. If it were such a big priority, as you say here, eight years may be a long enough time, I hope we can agree on that. Because if you don't, I can't imagine how long you need to be in governments to do things like pension reform, reform of this very care and that sort of thing. Would you settle for 16, 20? I don't know. But I want you to sweep your own doorstep with everything you've done in this area, and please be honest with yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment from my colleague Leo Luzar. [[Member Luzar off the microphone: with priority rights.]] With priority right, in that case colleague Vít Rakušan, because he also applied. I see a factual remark by Petr Dolínek, one more. [[Mr Dolínek off the microphone: I'll wait.]] A fellow Rakušan. Okay. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. I'm going to be a calming factor in the shootout of factual remarks. I just want to express the opinion of the mayor's club and independent of the topic. We clearly support the proposal for children to get into foster care in order to get into families from nursing homes. You know, I, as mayor of Cologne, have been visiting the County Baby Home we have in our town for a long time. And I really respect the ladies who worked there. I have respect for the principal who runs this office. However, this still does not mean that I take the view that this is a systemically correct solution for children who do not have their classic families and do not have the background for each child to have. Those kids don't cry often at night, because the crying, which is the normal response of a little child, is to call for some help to attract attention, it just doesn't work in that institutional care itself. As such, these children lack basic social habits to be given in their families, either from their parents or from foster parents. Again, this is not a criticism of the staff of these facilities. It's a criticism of the system itself. And if we support this law today, if we take a different path today, it is, in any case, a step towards the future, and it is, in any case, a step towards making the Czech Republic a somewhat more civilized space after today's day than it has been. [[11.00 hours]] Kids deserve love. Kids deserve care. Children do not deserve institutional care at such a low age. Let's look at the surrounding countries, the reference ones we compare with, which have the same history as us, where the historical divide came in 1989, like Poland, like Hungary, like Slovakia. And all these countries have managed to take that step into the future. It's a big debt we have. It is a great debt to the foster family, to the people who assume this responsibility and who are very helpful to our society, but mainly by helping children who would otherwise remain abandoned and in some kind of institutional care. So I beg all of you across the political spectrum - and this debate in me makes me feel that this vote could go well - about supporting this proposal. And I would like to thank, across the political spectrum, all my colleagues, who have dealt with the subject for a long time. In any event, the support of the Mayors and the Independents has this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I'll be brief. I've got two minutes. I would like there to be enough quality foster parents in the Czech Republic for all children who, unfortunately, will find themselves in this system of care for vulnerable children. Unfortunately, we do not have enough quality foster parents in the Czech Republic. And, yes, on the one hand, we're saying that we're going to raise the amounts now -- we're all in favour, I think we're probably going to be in sync -- and we're all saying that we need more money for foster parents, too, we agree. On the other hand, we should first address whether the addition of the funds itself will have the incentive element for those foster parents to come into that system in more numbers. Because the system is actually kind of continuous. Those transitional foster parents come into the system, they have some kids -- of course, someone holding longer, someone less -- but then they naturally leave the system. Because the care, and you said it here too, is really demanding. They have children who are after alcoholic parents, they have children who are after drug addicts, they are also handicapped. It's really not easy. Many also have families. And, of course, it's so difficult mentally and physically that, for example, after a few children, it's just natural for them to leave the system, because because of the effects within the family and their psyche and physics, they just don't give it anymore. That's why we can't count on the stable state that we might have right now, and we also need to know that this foster kid is just gonna come and leave after a while. And so there's always enough here, that is to say, overhangs, foster parents in every county, in every county, so that all the children that are in that system can be taken care of. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I don't think we're gonna make that change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u61	Mr Petr Dolínek, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, will be prepared with another factual comment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. To Mrs Pekarová, through you. It's always good to spit, but it needs to be said where it's true. As far as seniors, for example, the eight-year social democracy at MPSV is concerned, there has been a year-on-year pension increase from 10 to 11,000 to 15.5,000, if I take it on average, that means more than a third of those who need it. And that's the average old-age pension. That is what I think is more than all reforms currently. There has been current support for the elderly, and we have put forward reform. It's only up to the other parties to support it. But that's not the only one. We, for example, supported 68 273 companies as a whole through the Antivirus, Anticovid and supported over 950 000 employees during a crisis period when it was necessary to keep these people at work. I can read the numbers we did for the kids again. I can read the numbers we did in other areas and what the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is doing. You know, sometimes we're to blame for how much we support people, and we should cut it down. I think that Mrs Pekarová should invest her time to prevent some antisocial action - when it is so at heart - that some parties present here, and the work of the MPSV should be appreciated rather than criticized in the finals as she has shown it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u63	Yes, thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr Petr Gazdík, will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Aulická Jírovcová about the foster fund. In my opinion, it is absolutely essential to set the first increase in the amount because it has not been praised for a very long time. At the same time, set up a regular valorization scheme. Of course, the money is not the only motivation, especially for this type of activity. These people do it because they want to do it, they see some sense in it. But at the same time, when the family then finds itself in existential trouble, because the state hasn't added for years, while inflation is growing, it makes everything more expensive, so, of course, people fall out of the system for financial reasons. So ensuring stable funding is absolutely essential, and I hope that we will succeed today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mr Petr Gazdík, with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u66	Good day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would also really like to respond to Mrs Aulická Jírovcová's one particular experience. The Zlín Region was one of the first regions in the Republic that abolished the infant constitutions four years ago. I don't want to confirm what Mrs. Aulická Jírovcová says here, the experience of foster parents. It is simply not true what you say, Madame, through the President. It works without baby homes. On the contrary, I can say that the very smallest children are best cared for in our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Leo Luzar. Just before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I note that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip apologizes for work reasons within 11 hours. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this delicately heated debate on a subject that is all human, I have been called upon, I have been alerted to the fact that maybe I should try to be in such an institution for a year. When I pointed out that the infant formula has been working here for some time now and that it's not an invention of the current, but that it's been here for more than 50 years, I was asked to go for a year to try it out, that what it was isn't like today and so on. I would like to say to those who think this way that I was lucky enough that my parents grew up and raised me when they didn't have social problems, even though both of them worked as workers, even though there was never any money left in the family. Still, I was lucky enough to have a happy and calm childhood and not have to be in an institution. There were children who, of course, were in the institution, whether in babies or others. But it was never a social reason. 'Cause the system that was here before 1989, that's exactly what he was looking out for. And that would probably save us the two-thirds of the children who, for various economic reasons, have to be in the institutions today if the system that has been here for 32 years had a little bit more thought about people and offered them a job, offered them housing on acceptable terms, but mainly on economic terms. Because the system that's been here since 1989 is focusing too much on money, and it's forgotten that there are people who just don't have enough money, and the state keeps their hands off them because they say they're probably lemples, that they just don't want to work, that everyone can work. But it's not like that. And if two thirds of the children are in institutions for social reasons and not others - and those social reasons are mainly based on economic grounds - that the young family or mother simply cannot afford to have a child because it will not economically put him into poverty - that is the basic shame of the whole system that is here. This concerns the issue itself. [[11.10 hours]] It sounds from the previous speakers that the basics and considerations - we save 70,000, it costs a nursing home, let's add it to the foster home. Yes, I'm not defending myself, but let's not spill the tub and the baby, because this ancestor that's going to be done logically means that the infant formulas are going to be canceled. And that's what we're pointing out here. We fundamentally disagree. We say yes clearly, let it work as a parallel, as part of the welfare and assistance system, because not always and everywhere there can be infant formulas, not every community can afford it, to have such facilities, to have subsidies and more. But let's not break up baby homes as such, because there are a lot of specific cases where they have their application. It's an emotional game, it's said that the system is wrong, not those people. The people who work there are good, they're not responsible, but the system is wrong. But what system are we talking about? Of course, those people who work there, if they fill it and the system is bad, they're also bad within the system, and they probably raise the kids badly, or they take care of them in baby homes. But that's not true! Have fun with the people who work in the baby homes, the way they see it. Don't talk to those who tell you how cool it would be if all the kids could be in families. Yes, it would be great, but let's also talk about those examples where the kids just don't have the chance to be in the families and they're in the baby homes. And as those workers who work there, and they are in the vast majority of women, they perceive it. And how they work there and how the system is set up. But in other words, we want to abolish baby homes, so let's face it. Not from one previous speaker promoting the individual family education of these children - he didn't talk about wanting to keep infant formulas, and that's the mistake. That's the basic mistake we're afraid of and we're up against here. On the other hand, I set an example of those social and emotional ties. I don't like to use individual examples when someone gets an e-mail, information, because I don't want to generalize the one specific case. But I have also talked about the fact that these families who have decided to be foster parents deserve a great deal of respect, but it is also about the fact that these families are developing an emotional relationship with those children. And I'm sure you also got the e-mail because he left everyone, and that's the example that's probably not multiplier, but to which I was pointing out that this family is simply writing, "Please, they want to take away our little girl that we took as foster parents, two years we've been taking care of her, we didn't know that the family even existed, we've been emotionally finding a way to her, and now she's coming to the office and she's going to say, "We want to take the little girl away from them because her real mom came back and she wants to take care of her." Don't let it happen!" Here's the other plane. I'm not talking about kids getting a higher emotional relationship with those parents when they're in foster care, of course, but we're also talking about how the families that provide foster care are mentally concerned when they take care of the baby, two years they've been raising him, and then Mommy comes in and says, "I want the baby back." And they're gonna pick it up like this, the kid, they're gonna give him a briefcase, and go home! It's a tragedy. It's the human tragedy of these families, because over the past two years, they've built a loving relationship with that child, an emotional relationship with that child, and that's what you're all talking about. And the professionalism of these families, of course, is different, and each family has a slightly different reason to think about it, because it's a mission that transforms it into a profession to do it. And we don't take that into account at all. And as for the two-thirds of the children we're talking about right now, which are supposed to come back to their biological families sooner or later, that makes it worse. Therefore, let's not empty the baby with the bathtub, let's preserve the baby's constitutions, because they are able to overcome the hardest times in the families caused by this system. Because if it is really true that two thirds are there for the economic and social reasons, then the problem is clearly identifiable and definable. And this system throws young moms into these problems, that they choose the radical and worst path, that they simply entrust the child to education. Most of these children end up in families, families known, relatives, when possible. We're not even talking about the phenomenon that our kids are raising our grandparents because parents aren't able to tighten this baby economically, they just can't do it. We don't care about that at all! Above that, we close our eyes to the fact that this system, which we are constantly pouring money into, simply acts as mass education, not even family education. And when it suits us, all we can do is pull out the family one. Yes, family is the foundation of the state, family is the best for children. But let's talk about the children who have this problem, and there are no families who can take care of them. To operate with one example, two examples of a top-class family with an education, can take care of handicapped children, can handle them, is also not serious, because these families are terribly few children in these institutions who have a health problem. Therefore, we should also maintain these infant formulas precisely for these children, because those families will be scarce. Looking for a solution now that we're gonna train some professionals to help these kids... I'll remind you of inclusion. I mean, it's the same thing, the model, and inclusion in education doesn't work, because there's a teacher here teaching children who have disabilities, they have to be given three, four times more to them than the whole class, which is why he gets an assistant teacher. This is what you want to do in a social work way, that just a child who has some physical, mental and other disability will be in a foster family, and that family will happen, someone who will take care of the family - overall, not only the child, but also the family - to take care of access to the disabled child. Whereas in infants' homes, they are specialists who have this experience and know how to approach these children. That's why, let's not try to push sideways, that it's actually something wrong, the baby constitutions are outdone. They have their reasons these days! I'm sure you do. And if we have to approach anything, let's look for ways to help those kids. But not by interfering with infant formulas, because they are expensive, and many times the previous speakers have repeated the 70,000 as a certain mantra to how much this family receives, and that it is even more economically advantageous. I wouldn't want the education of children to be transformed into an economic plane. That's what we have to say here. And those amendments that point to joining foster parents... Yes, let him join them, because that's really a mission and hard work. But let's not really try to find ways to save money and save money on baby homes. We simply do not agree with the interruption of these constitutions, and the proposals that are aimed at this, and there are most of them, because, of course, those who finance the constitutions will have to think economically, and the economy here is relentless to them, the infant constitutions will be abolished. Well, say it here, admit it. But in two, in three, in four years, when the system doesn't work after it runs, then stand here and say something's wrong. We're gonna deal with this: we're gonna put money in there. Because we only know how to handle things with money. We've tried that, too. The European Union has one solution: we will send money. Something's not working: we'll send the money. It still doesn't work: we'll send more money. Everything can be bought. But I can't. Here is a system that works for some time, years, works to the satisfaction of both children and society and the state, and here is the preparation to disrupt this system. And that's what really bothers us as a KSČM. We here want an existing functional system - which already has a principle, has its functioning run, there are experts trained, long-time experts who work with these children - we want to interrupt and replace with a single topic: family love. And you can't do that! Family love is very important, but these children need something more than family love! It takes the expertise and the real professionals to do it. And as they say, every man knows what an army is because he served in the army, everyone is a football expert, because he sometimes played football, so here in this field, when they talk about raising children, everyone would also say: I have a child, I raised him. But let's talk to those people from the baby homes who work there every day and meet up with those cases that are really hard. Don't just get bombarded by those foster families' emails, because that's one side of the truth -- and certainly those cases and stories are worth publishing, and the discussion about them -- but let's talk about the nursing homes, let's talk about the baby homes, what the practice is there. And then when you put that two information together, you'll find very quickly that there's really going to be a baby spilling out of the tub. And I wouldn't want to be a part of it just this much, because we all understand, because we were all raising children. [[11.20 hours]] The only thing I appeal to and please do not disturb these baby homes just because they are outdated or that they have it all over Europe differently. After all, we have dozens of examples here, and I am not going to talk about the economy, energy and other things where all Europe goes somewhere, and we are already finding out here that it is not only worth taking shots and doing the same thing that Europe does, because Europe is not going in the right direction. And when we look at how access to infant formulas works and preschool education and, in general, in the Czech Republic as a traditional one, we have something to be proud of. And the whole of Europe is jealous of the system. Just because they went the other way doesn't mean we have to join them. That's the point. If the amendments aim at abolishing infant formulas, we cannot agree with that! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. There will now be factual comments. It's three so far. First, Mr Marek Výborný, Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you to a colleague of yours, Luzar. My colleague, it is true that the constitution is never and will never be a family. Sebelle's caring worker, a nurse will never be the loving arms of that mother. It just is, and we can talk about it from the left, from the right, from the top, from the bottom. It's just that no one can change that. You're the one who's talking about not being subjected to some kind of email pressure or anything like that. I've been talking about these things repeatedly with my brother, who's been the director of a children's home for years. I talked about it as well with an OSPOD worker. I have spoken about this with people who have long been engaged in this repeatedly mentioned Pardubice region, where the transformation of these very institutions has taken place, I would say, exemplaryly for other regions. We're really standing before going the way that's standard and which goes mainly for the child's benefit. This is all falling out of your speech. This isn't about maintaining the constitution. This is about ensuring the best possible care for the child herself, who has been uninhibited in some difficult situation. Please, let's keep this in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Member Jan Čižinský. Member Jaroslava Puntová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u72	Thank you. I listened very carefully to Mr Luzar, but I did not find any arguments for the maintenance of infant formulas. I'd stop by the example he's been describing here, which means the foster family returns the child to the biological family after two years. Of course, this is an unimaginablely difficult situation for all of us, but precisely this example speaks for the abolition of infant formulas, because two years the child has been raised in a foster relationship. That wouldn't happen in an institution. And who was it best for? Well, for the baby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Member Jaroslava Puntová, point of fact. Member Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u74	Hello again, everyone. Please, do you remember when we were discussing whether we were going to have a nursery or a children's group? Cribs, which have long since been cancelled as unnecessary, are now proving that we actually need them. We need both nursery and children's groups. That's why I think we need the baby home just like we need the security for all those kids who won't be lucky enough to find some temporary foster parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Member Leo Luzar with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. Through you to a colleague of Čižinský. He challenged me. Yes, the problem I was talking about - and I don't want to generalize it, really not, it's individuality - ends in court. Those foster parents are refusing to give up the baby, 'cause the mother's been... And now they're looking for evidence against the mother, turning to court to prevent it from being published. How are you going to handle this in your designs? It's not solved there. That's where it's automatically assumed that foster parents would just pick up the baby, put the briefcase on, and hello. No, they're fighting for the kid who's in their foster care because they're used to him. It's theirs. Your parents fell in love with that baby. Try the foster family in love who finally found their offspring, because maybe they couldn't have their own... You can't stop it. And those cases are really tragic. That's not what I wanted to say, but you challenged me to an argument. The second argument is how many foster families there are in the Republic, how many of them are willing to take really those severely disabled children or disabled children in general into their upbringing, against the number of children in the Republic. Statistics, let's put the statistics together. And this is where the numbers show up. Well, the problem here is, if they cancel baby homes, there's gonna be a problem, because there's gonna be a shortage of foster parents, and they're gonna be convinced mainly economically to take more kids. And there will be conditions for them to have more children. And it ends up being an ideal place... for one child to be in the family, so it's going to be five or six children, if not even relatives. And economically, it will only be motivated. And they're gonna join in so they can raise. And all these problems arise, and this is also not solved. I guess it's just here that the transition is supposed to be smooth. It can be two years, three years of time. We're gonna wash our hands here, and in three years, let's figure this out. And it's settled. It's not. How many laws have we passed here that have turned in two years? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u77	We will continue with the factual remarks. At the moment there are three entries, first Ivo Pojezný, followed by Jan Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us briefly respond to Mr Gazdík, who has argued here that they have abolished infant formulas in the Zlin region, so they have solved the problem. And it doesn't matter at all. It is so, Mr Gazdík, through Mr President, that these children have been sent to the orphanages of the South Moravian Region. I just confirmed it. They're there until today. OSPOD is interested in them, so it may gradually take them away. So I wouldn't argue with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u79	Member Jan Čižinský with a factual remark, then President Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u80	Very briefly indeed. If economic motivation is mentioned here, then, of course, the employees of the infant institutions who are doing the best they can are also economically motivated. They just go to work that they're paid for. It's perfectly okay for foster parents to get some reward for taking care of those kids.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. President of the War with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't see anything negative about economic motivation. I would like to say, I certainly believe that this was not meant to be the case, through Mr President, that my colleague Luzar did not mean that, but simply, if someone cares for more children, it does not mean that he cares for them badly. I don't like examples, but I'm gonna use them this time. My friend, a fellow scout, Čert's his nickname, has 11 foster kids like this. Part of them are Rom. And I'm 100% sure, because all those kids graduated from school, they're graduating, they're high school, some of them went to college, they went to folk school, they didn't even have the kind of education and care that he gave them, so a lot of kids in normal families don't even have. That's why I think there should be constant pressure to make sure that by giving birth to children less, a number of women can't have children so that there's constant pressure to put children in families as quickly as possible. And we should all take care of it. In no way does it mean that all the constitutions are destroyed by the smash and that those children who really, and may be such cases are not placed for various reasons, because there are no substitute parents for them, that the children will stay somewhere on the street or at the station. That's not how it is, so please don't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate. Anyone else reporting for the debate? It does not, so I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? He has a minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly speak for Minister Maláčová on the amendment to the Act on the Social Protection of Children. After eight years, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs presents an amendment that should set up and mainly restart the replacement family care in the Czech Republic. However, it was a very thorny journey. More than a year ago, the government sent an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, everyone is eagerly waiting for this law to be passed. I will therefore not delay and allow me only briefly to comment on some aspects of the proposed amendments and amendments. First to the so-called twains, that is, devices for children requiring immediate assistance. Each year, the MPSV must make an exceptional subsidy because the State contribution will not cover the benefits of their costs. It's not a system solution. In the amendment there is a proposal to increase the state contribution to CZK 30,000, but this is already proving insufficient. We therefore support Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's parliamentary proposal, which proposes an increase in the contributions from the current CZK 22 800 to CZK 36 000 per occupied bed. I would also like to comment on foster care. Since 2016, we have seen a stagnation in the number of foster care applicants. Being a foster parent is really a crucial decision, and we should therefore ensure that foster parents have the most respectable conditions. However, only long - term foster parents who care for siblings or children with disabilities increase their rewards in the novel. The transitional foster parents should then increase their reward from 20,000 to 22,000 crowns. That's not enough. For this reason, I would like to ask you to support Mr Juchelka's parliamentary proposal, which follows the remuneration for both temporary and long-term foster families for minimum wage. It also systematically separates this parliamentary proposal from related and professional foster care. My support also has another amendment, namely Mrs Gajdůškovášková, which proposes an increase in the state contribution to the exercise of foster care for accompanying organisations from 48 000 to 60,000 per year. Now to limit infant formulas, i.e. children's homes for children under the age of three. There's been a big discussion here in the House around the ban on placing the smallest children in institutions. I want to say that children who have been through an institution at the youngest age have significantly less chances of a happy and successful life in adulthood. On that, I believe, we all agree. The constitution just never fully replaces the family. If this amendment passes, there will be a restriction on placing children under three years of age in nursing homes for social reasons. However, during the vote on amendments today, you have the opportunity to approve a much more ambitious change that we have been talking about in the Czech Republic for several years, namely the ban on placing the smallest children in all residence facilities. This is dealt with by the parliamentary amendment tabled by Members Richterová and Juchelka. Greater support for foster families, which is set up in an amendment, goes hand in hand with the ban on introducing young children into institutions. Especially when the effectiveness of this amendment is shifted to 2024. And I was assured by the MPSV that they could actually handle this gradual transformation. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the two amendments tabled, and this is a proposal for the creation of the so-called 'no'. a provision of CZK 15 000 per month for young adults who wish to continue their studies after the end of institutional or foster care. From the amendments, I would still ask for the support of Mrs Karla Šlechtová's amendment, which proposes that children be put into foster care by two persons who are not spouses. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I believe that this amendment will finally be approved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, Minister. And with priority rights, Mr. Acting Chairman of the ODS club, Marek Benda, has signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u86	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but I would like a 20-minute pause for a meeting of our parliamentary club before the final vote. Meet me downstairs at the KDU-ČSL Club, which will kindly give it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u87	Just, Mr President, before the final vote from now on? Now, yes, okay. So I'm declaring a 20-minute recess for the ODS MP's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the time for the meeting of the Civic Democratic Party MEPs has ended and we will continue our negotiations. The final word of the Minister was given, not yet the final word of the rapporteur, virtually. rapporteurs. Of course, Mr Výborný, who was rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee, also has the right to speak with the final word, but does not ask for the final word. So now it's Mr Marek Novák's turn to take the final vote, and if he's not interested in the final vote, I beg him to lead us through the voting procedure. [[Mrs Richter signals a request for a break.]] Yes, Mr Cernohorsky with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u89	I'd like to request a seven-minute recess at the club meeting. There's something else going on about the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u90	Yes, I understand. I am declaring a seven-minute break for the meeting of the Pirate Party MP's club. That means we'll continue at 12.03 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a break. I'll read the apologies. Mr Václav Votava apologizes for attending negotiations from 11.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Mr Jan Bauer also apologizes for today's meeting, for work reasons. Then Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes between 12.30 and 19.00 until the end of the day due to the hearing. So we are now at the stage that the rapporteur, Mr Marek Novák, because he was no longer interested in the final words, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 81st meeting. You received the resolution as press 911/10. [[Noise in the hall, a large crowd of Members discussing in front of the pitch.]] The Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after discussing the bills after second reading - just please colleagues, I really need to concentrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u93	Sorry. I didn't hear it. [[Laughs in the hall. Reactions from the O.R. that everyone should settle down.]] jo. Well, I'll get my order. You can ask me that. [[Newsletter: Thank you.]] I'd like some peace in the courtroom. I knew it was a little noisy in here. But he's a bit of a bad noise in general. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. First of all, it recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law under House press 911/8 in the following order. I dare not present the order now because you all received it in your mailboxes as printing 911/10. Secondly, he takes the following positions on the proposals tabled - I would also like to refer you to print 911/10. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the third reading of the bill. Fourthly, it instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u95	I would rather ask whether all Members agree that we have not read the draft procedure and that it is in the materials. However, now Mrs Richterová wants to take the vote. There you go. So do you have any counterproposals? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I am here with an explanation of the technical issue of the procedure, where it actually occurred during the debate that there is an interest in the press voting under letter C8505 paragraph 11 - in that vote in the procedure it is point 36 - I am glad for that. And now the point is that there is efficiency there, so the efficiency itself is actually colliding with the vote that will be voted before with Mr Juchelka. And we agreed with the legislation that the solution is now to give a counter-proposal of the procedure only that, if the approved amendment is the number 8504, or 8505, then it will also be possible to vote the effectiveness, because it relates directly to them, so that, in the case of the adoption of amendments or one of them concerning infant formulas, there is simply the possibility of accepting the effectiveness of point C8505 as well as the possibility of adopting the effectiveness of point 1. 1. 2025. I stress it as if it were exclusively to my amendments, of course signed by many others, which are under those numbers 8504 or 8505. That's exactly how it's specified. It should be okay with the legislation. I see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u97	So there's been a counterproposal. I mean, if we all understand what we're gonna vote on, I'm gonna go on. [[Sounds like music. Fun in the hall.]] Let's do it again. [[There's music again.]] So it's probably a new jingle. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So it doesn't confuse the MPs now. In any case, we will therefore vote on Mrs Richterová's counter-proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number three, 114 Members voted in favour of 101, against 2. The motion was accepted. We will therefore come forward, Mr rapporteur, so let us be introduced gradually to these proposals and we will be voting on them gradually. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u98	As the first item in the vote on legislative technical adaptations presented at third reading. It's the edits I read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u99	The Minister's position? [[Minister without microphone: Agreed.]] Turn your mic on if you want. [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 114 Members voted in favour of 110, against 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u100	Second vote on A1, A2 and A3, which are committees. If A2 is approved, C8470 points 2 and 4 are also unvoting. It is a batch security department mediated and unmediated by foster care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u101	Do you have a committee opinion? [[Rapporteur: The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered by 114 Members, for 70, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u102	This has become an unvoted point 8470, points 2 and 4 in the procedure under numbers 16 and 18 for your clarity. Now voting three on the F8551, amending the motion of Mr Juchelka and Mr Dolínek relating to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, points A4, A5, A8 and A16 and new paragraphs 10 to 12. Furthermore, C8470 point 14 cannot be voted as they are identical. If approved, A4, A5, A8, A16, C8470 points 4 to 13, C8473 points 2, C8504 points 11, D7481 and G7679 are further unvoting. I'll let you know here that in the course of the change of procedure, point C8505 remains. This is an increase in the remuneration of the foster family, its contribution to the minimum wage, the graduation of the amount of the remuneration for the foster family for a transitional period according to the number of children entrusted and their health status. Further adaptation of the new foster care allowance for unmediated foster parents. And compared to the Committee's amendment, it is a sure position (?) adjustments in respect of the amount of benefit for foster parents who are dependent on the care of another person at levels two to four, as well as the related changes in the adjustment of the requirement for the benefit of foster care and in the effectiveness adjustment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u103	The committee's opinion, huh? [[Recommendant.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number six, 114 Members voted in favour of 99, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u104	I apologize now, but given that we have eliminated many amendments, I will ask for a moment of patience, because I myself need a little order in the procedure and a vote on point C8470, paragraph 14, has subsequently become an unvoted point A4, A5, A8 and A16, which you have under point 5 in the procedure... Consequently, C8470 points 4 to 13, then C8473 points 2, C8504 points 11, D 7481 and G7679. [[he's cutting himself out of the procedure.]] We can now proceed to the next vote, and that is the vote under item four under item F8551, the vote on A6, A7, A9, A10, A11, A12, A13, A14 and A15. If A6 is approved here, C8470 point 2 is also unvoting. These are changes in the regulation of the management of the benefits of foster care, which is related to the separation of batch security mediated and unmediated foster care. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u105	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number seven, 114 Members voted in favour of 81, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u106	We will not vote on point five as F8551 has been approved. The following is, therefore, paragraph 6, the vote on B1 to B5, which is the amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. This is an extension of the modification of the consent of OSPOD to contractual stays of children in ZDVOP and to contractual stays of children under 15 years of age. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u107	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 114 Members voted in favour of 100, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u108	Thus it became an unvoting point of E7638. Next, we will vote under the number seven votes on B6 to B10, which is once again the constitutionally-legal committee, related changes in the procedural regulation of the procedure for the approval of the OSPOD with the contractual residence of the child. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u109	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 114 Members voted in favour of 100, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u110	Thus it became an unvoting point of E7638. Next up, the number eight votes on B11 and B12, once again the constitutionally-legal committee. Accompanying amendment to the Social Services Act. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u111	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 114 Members voted in favour of 100, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u112	Furthermore, under the number nine vote on B13, once again the constitutionally-legal committee. Accompanying amendment of the Health Services Act to the consent of the OSPOD to the contractual stay of a child in a children's home for children under three years of age. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u113	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 11, 114 Members voted for 99, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u114	This became unvoting C8504 point 9 and C8505 point 9 and J8498 point 8. Followed by the number ten votes on B14, B15, B16, B17 and B18 of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. These are amendments to the regulation of preliminary measures by the courts on the adjustment of the child's situation in the Law on special judicial procedures. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u115	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 12, 114 Members voted in favour of 64, against 17. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u116	Since we approved B15, it is further unvoting C8503. Under the number eleven votes on C8466 by colleague Richterová. Specification of the circle of persons and authorities who may request the child to be admitted into the care of the ZDVOP under contract. The opinion of the Committee shall be negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u117	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 13, 114 Members voted in favour of 47, against 8, the proposal was not adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u118	Since it was not adopted, we can then vote another F8552 point 2 which was in collision. This will come in the next vote under number 55. We will now vote on C8467 in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Mrs Richterová - anchoring the definition of a young adult, changing the scheme in adjusting the conditions for entitlement to the provision. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u119	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 14, 114 Members voted in favour of 30, against 10. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u120	Under number 13 of the vote on C8468, Mrs Richterová - establishing the amount of a one-off and repeated allowance for minimum wage. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u121	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 15, 114 Members voted in favour of 48, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u122	Next under number 14 of the vote on C8469 by colleague Richter - publication of pseudonymized data from the Regional Authority's records on the mediation of family care in a way that allows remote access. The opinion of the Committee shall be negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u123	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 16, 114 Members voted in favour of 28, against 24, the proposal was not adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u124	The following is the vote under number 15 - the vote on C8470 item 1 of Mrs Richterová. This is about anchoring the definition of a relative foster parent. Opinion of the Committee - The Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u125	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 17, 114 Members voted in favour of 44, against 15. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u126	We will not vote on the 16th vote because A2 and A6 have been approved. There was a C8470. There is therefore a vote under number 17, and it is about C8470 point 3 of Mrs Richterová. This is an increase in the amount of state contribution to foster care to 66 000 per calendar year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u127	Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 18, 113 Members registered, for 48, against 12. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u128	I'm sorry. Now I'm just gonna come back and get my bearings. I'm just gonna ask for a little patience. There. Thank you for your patience. So we are not voting number 18 because A3 has been approved. No vote number nineteen either, as F8551 has been approved. No vote under number 20 either, as it was also approved by 8551. No vote twenty-one either. Same thing - F8551 approved. No vote number twenty-two on point 14 either. And now I apologize - yes, because it is the same as the F8551 that we approved in the previous vote. So, under number 23, the vote now on C8470 paragraph 15 to Mrs Richterová. This is a change in the regulation of local jurisdiction of the OSPOD in the exercise of custody and guardianship of the child. The Committee does not recommend:
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u129	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 19, 114 Members voted in favour of 31, against 6. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u130	Followed by the number twenty-four votes on C8470, paragraph 16 of colleague Richterová. This is a withdrawal of entitlement to parental allowance for the beneficiary of a foster pension, and here is the non-advising opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u131	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 20, 114 Members voted in favour of 12, against 5. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u132	The following is the vote under number 25 on C8473 point 1 of colleague Richterová. Change of material and personnel standard in a home for people with disabilities. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u133	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 114 Members voted in favour of 29 against 5. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u134	Voting number twenty-six will not be voted as F8551 has been approved. The same vote as number 27 on C8503, as B15 was approved here. So we're going to continue voting under number twenty-eight. It is the amendment C8504 in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Mrs Richterová, Mrs Juchelka and others. It is a three-year age limit for providing institutional care to a child in the legislation on the social protection of children, educational measures of the court. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u135	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, registered by 114 Members, for 71, against 25. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u136	This made the amendment J8498 unvoteable in points 1, 2 and 3. The following is the vote under number twenty-nine, the vote on C8504 in paragraphs 4 and 5, Mrs Richterová, Mrs Juchelka and colleagues. It is a three-year age limit for providing institutional care, this time in the Child Welfare Act, and it is an exception for placing a child in social services facilities and sibling groups. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u137	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 23, registered by 114 Members, for 71, against 25. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u138	Following the procedure under the number thirty votes on C8504, paragraph 6 of colleague Richterová, Juchelka and the collective. It is an anchoring of the age limit of three years for providing institutional care to a child in the legislation on social and legal protection of children, currently relating to the ZDVOP. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u139	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote. Please. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 114 Members voted in favour of 71, against 23. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u140	This has further become an unvoting amendment under point J8498 (4). Wait a minute, I'm sorry. [[The legislative officer is briefly speaking to the rapporteur.]] Thank you. Let me just cross that point off. For you, it's a point in procedure 63. So the vote follows on C8504 paragraph 7 of Mrs Richterová, Mrs Juchelka and others. This is about anchoring the age limit of four years for providing institutional care to a child at level three and fourth depending on the assistance of another natural person. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u141	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 114 Members voted in favour of 71, against 26. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u142	Following in procedure number thirty-two votes on C8504 paragraph 8 of Mrs Richterová, Mrs Juchelka and others. In the event that this is approved, J8498 point 7 is further unvoting. These are changes associated with the abolition of the legal regulation of a child's home for children under three years of age. It's a follow-up amendment. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u143	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered by 114 Members, for 69, against 26. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u144	So this became unvoting J8498 point 7. The vote under procedure number thirty-three cannot be voted because we approved B13. It follows, therefore, in procedure number thirty-four, the vote on C8504 paragraph 10 of Mrs Richterová, Mrs Juchelka and others. It is a three-year age-limit, this time for the regulation of preliminary measures by the court. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u145	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, registered by 114 Members, for 70, against 26. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u146	Now, the vote C8504 paragraph 11 is unvoted, as we have approved the F8551. The following is the vote in the procedure under number 36 on C8505 paragraph 11 by Mrs Richterová and Mrs Juchelka. This is a regulation of the effectiveness of the law following the establishment of the age limit and it is valid from 1. 1. 2025. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u147	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 114 Members voted in favour of 107, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u148	We will not vote on point 37 of the procedure because point F8551 has been approved, the same as point 38 of the E7638 point 1 we will not vote on because B1 through B5 has been approved. It follows, therefore, in procedure number thirty-nine, the vote on E7638 paragraph 2 of Mr Pávek. This is the subsequent cancellation of the terms of consent of the OSPOD in the modification of the contract for the provision of protection and assistance of the child in the ZDVOP and the abolition of the modification of the final duration of the contractual stay of the child in the care of the ZDVOP. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u149	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 29, 114 Members signed in, in favour of 1, against 36. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u150	Following the procedure, paragraph 40, the vote on E7638 point 3 of fellow Pávek. This is a new regulation of the final duration of the contractual stay with the child in the care of the ZDVOP, the cancellation of the condition of the consent of the OSPOD with the extension of the contractual stay of the child in the care of the ZDVOP. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u151	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 30, registered by 114 Members, for 3, against 32. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u152	Following the vote on E7638 in points 4, 5 and 6 of my colleague Pávek, maintaining the existing maximum permissible capacity of ZDVOP in the number of 28 children, repealing the ban on co-operation in the operation of ZDVOP with another type of constitutional facility in newly established establishments. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u153	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 31, 113 Members voted in favour of none, against 16. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u154	The number forty-two in the procedure is followed by a vote on E7638 paragraph 7 of colleague Pávek. This is the removal of the conditions for drawing up an individual young adult's plan to adjust the entitlement to the provision allowance. Opinion of the Committee: the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u155	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable. - The President is silent. Vote from the diaper: Inconvenient.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, I didn't hear that. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 32, registered by 113 Members, for none, against 11. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u156	Then the vote on E7638 paragraph 8 of Mr Pávek, the removal of the conditions for drawing up an individual young adult's plan, again from the adjustment of entitlement to the provision allowance. Opinion of the Committee: the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u157	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 33, registered by 113 Members, for 1, against 12. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u158	Following the procedure under the number forty-four votes on the E7638 in points 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Mr Pávek, the launch of an adjustment to the individual plan of a young adult and the related amendment to the requirements of the application for a provision and amendments to the arrangements for offences relating to proposals for amendments. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u159	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 34, registered by 113 Members, for none, against 15. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u160	Given that B6 through B10 has been approved, we will not vote on the E7638 colleague Pávek and we will continue procedure number forty-six, the vote on E7638 point 15 of Mr Pávek, the launch of transitional provisions on the new regulation of operational and personnel standards of ZDVOP. Opinion of the Committee: the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u161	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 35, registered by 113 Members, for none, against 28. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u162	Now, under 47 votes on F8549 in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Mr Juchelka. These are legislative technical changes related to the modification of an OSPOD employee's service licence. Opinion of the Committee: The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u163	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 36, registered by 113 Members, for 82, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u164	Now the vote on F8549 in points 6 and 7 of my colleague Juchelka. These are legislative technical corrections in the regulation of contractual stays of children in the care of ZDVOP. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u165	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 37, registered by 113 Members, for 80, against 14. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u166	This is the second time we have become unvoting F8552 point 2. We will now proceed to the vote on F8549 in points 8, 9, 10 and 11 of our colleague Juchelka, legislative technical corrections in the regulation of payments for the stay of a child in the care of the child and in the regulation of the management of the benefits of foster care. Opinion of the Committee: The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u167	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 38, registered by 113 Members, for 97, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u168	Following the procedure under point 50 of the vote on the F8549 point 12 of Mrs Juchelka. These are legislative technical corrections in the adjustment of the provision allowance. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u169	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 39, registered by 113 Members, for 99, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u170	The following is the vote on the F8549 point 13 of my colleague Juchelka, legislative technical corrections in the adjustment of the contribution again. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u171	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 40, registered by 113 Members, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u172	Following the number of procedure fifty-two votes on F8549 in points 14 to 27 of my colleague Juchelka, legislative technical corrections in the regulation of the procedure for the provision of the allowance, the introduction of new amendments to the staff licence of the OSPOD staff member, the introduction of the possibility of providing exceptional subsidies to persons from the budgets of municipalities and regions and from the state budget, the extension of the possibility of valorizing the State contribution to the exercise of foster care and the provision allowance by the Government's regulation. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u173	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, 113 Members voted in favour of 97, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u174	There is now a vote on the F8549 in point 28 of Mr Juchelka. This is a shift in the date of the Act's entry into force by one year compared to the Government's proposal. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u175	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[The rapporteur is approached by a legislative worker, consultation.]] Voting number 42, 113 Members registered, for 87, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u176	I apologize and thank the legislation for helping. However, since we have just adopted C8505 in paragraph 11, we should not have voted on this point, and therefore I would have asked you, Mr President, if it had been possible, in agreement with colleagues, to declare the previous vote confusing and no longer to vote on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u177	So that vote 42 should be declared void?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u178	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u179	Okay, well, if there's a match like that. Now I don't know if I can just say it like that on a microphone. [[The O.R. sounds like it.]] So if no one's protesting, then I'm declaring vote 42 invalid. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u180	Thank you for your cooperation. Now under procedure number fifty-four votes on F8552 in points 1, 3 and 4 of my colleague Juchelka. These are changes related to the proposal to delete the amendment of the contract for the provision of protection and assistance to a child in facilities for children requiring immediate assistance. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u181	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 43, registered by 113 Members, for 44, against 13. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u182	Following the vote under number fifty-six by F8552.II A colleague of Juchelka. This is an extension of the entitlement to reimbursement of costs from the state budget and to the region and the capital city of Prague. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u183	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 44, 113 Members registered, for 46, versus 2. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u184	Now under procedure number fifty-seven votes on F8553. I in point 1. It is about establishing professional competence for the provision of social and labour protection by authorised persons for the regulation of the professional competence of social and labour services under the Social Services Act. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u185	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, 113 Members registered, for 56, versus 5. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u186	Now under procedure number fifty-eight votes on F8553.II points 1, 2 and 3 of Mr Juchelka's colleagues. These are changes in the modification of the review of the OSPOD file on the child, the communication of data to lawyers who are guardians of the child, the viewing of children over 15 years of age and the adopters. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u187	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered by 113 Members, for 57, against 5. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u188	We will not vote on G7679 as a colleague of Golasowská has been approved by F8551. The vote on H7763 is therefore followed by a fellow Member of the Šlechtová. This is an anchoring of the possibility of entrusting a child to a joint foster care of two persons other than their spouses. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u189	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered by 113 Members, for 54, against 17. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u190	I'm only gonna ask for five seconds. [[Off-the-Mike briefing.]] Thank you. I needed a four-eye check. We will now vote on Mr Bauer's I7682. This is an increase in the amount of the state contribution for the founders of the ZDVOP to CZK 36,000 per month. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u191	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, 113 Members registered, for 107, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u192	They have thus become further unvoting K8501 and L7744. We will not vote on J8498 because C8501 points 1, 2 have been approved. The same, we will not vote J8498 because C8504 points 3 and 6 have been approved. We will therefore now vote in the procedure under number sixty-four J8498 in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Mr Čižinský. This is about anchoring the age limit of six years for providing institutional care to a child in the Social Services Act. Opinion of the Committee: the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u193	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, registered by 113 Members, for 30, against 28. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u194	Since C8504 point 8 was adopted, we will not vote on J8498 in paragraph 7. We will also not vote on J8498 at point 8 because B13 has been approved. Now, in the procedure under number sixty-seven, we will vote on J8498 paragraph 9 of Mr Čižinský. [[Attention off the microphone.]] We won't, I'm sorry. We will not vote on it because 8551 has been approved. I'm sorry. You just need to cut better. [[13.00 hours]] We will now vote under procedure number sixty-eight on K7586 by Mrs Gajdůškovášková; this is the appointment of an attorney as another guardian of the child next to the OSPOD in legal proceedings concerning the care of minors. The Committee has not adopted an opinion here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u195	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, registered by 113 Members, for 20, against 12. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u196	Now, the vote on K8499 by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, anchoring the entitlement to a contribution to cover the needs of the child for the careless children entrusted to another person. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u197	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 113 Members voted, in favour of 90, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u198	The following is the vote on K8500 by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. This is an increase in the amount of state contribution to foster care to 60,000 per calendar year. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u199	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, registered by 113 Members, for 49, versus 7. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u200	K8501 point 1 shall not be voted as I7682 has been approved. We will not vote on K8501 in points 2, 3, 4. Yes, because the previous point was also accepted. The number of the procedure is seventy-three, the vote on L7742 by Mrs Červíčková, the amendment of the personnel standard of ZDVOP in case of care for the sibling group or in the provision of emergency care. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u201	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, 113 Members voted, in favour of 79, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u202	The vote on L7744 will not be taken as point K8501 (1) has been approved. So we have exhausted all the amendments and we can vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u203	So, all the proposals have been voted on, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on the Social Protection of Children, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the House's 911 press, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[A voice from the diaper. - Rapporteur: Accompanied, one more vote.]] Voting number 54, 113 Members voted in favour of 99, against none. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I also ask the rapporteur to present the motion for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u204	As an accompanying resolution, Mrs Lucie Šafránková's proposal is: Mrs Lucie Šafránková... Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic... So again, please. Proposition...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u205	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u206	I'm a little out of line. So Mrs Lucie Šafránková's proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic through the Government is ordering the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to do 31. 8. 2021 has prepared and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a comprehensive binding methodology for activities accompanying organisations and other bodies providing professional assistance to foster families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u207	I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 55, 113 Members voted, in favour of 76, against none. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. I'm done discussing this press. I'll read one more apology. Mr Jan Zahradník apologizes on Friday, today, 6. 8, for personal reasons. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-001-001.u208	Good afternoon. We'll proceed to discuss another point, that's
