ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u1	56. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 1046/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport, Mr Karel Havlíček, whom I ask to take the floor. And we're gonna make a change to the rapporteur. So we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Martin Kolovratník to Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Initiating vote. I said, who's the rapporteur for a change? Who's against it? In the vote number 226, 88 Members signed up, for 68, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, now from the backyard of the Ministry of Transport. The proposed bill is focused on topics that must be subject to national regulation in order to fulfil the obligations arising from our EU membership. This is a comprehensive amendment to the legislation approving the technical competence of road and special vehicles, their systems, components, etc. In doing so, the implementation of the Regulations is linked to older regulations relating to the approval of the technical competence of tractors, trailers, interchangeable towing equipment, two- or three-wheel vehicles, quadricycles, as well as to the system of components or separate technical units of such vehicles. The Ministry of Transport is in the proposal as an approval authority and market surveillance authority for those vehicles, their systems, etc. The draft law also contains a comprehensive amendment to the legislation approving the technical competence of individually produced vehicles, where the authorisation of the production of the vehicle is completely abandoned. The approval of the technical competence of the individual vehicle produced will thus no longer take place in two successive stages, but only in one steering. The draft law enters into the legislation on the approval of imported vehicles. In particular, vehicles imported from other Member States are subject to this approval scheme unless they are approved by a recognised country and a partial amendment to the conditions for the approval of the technical competence of the imported vehicles is proposed. Otherwise, the draft law contains amendments to one of the tasks arising from the Government's programming declaration, as well as changes responding to experience in application practice, such as the abolition of the obligation to submit a registration report on applications relating to entries in the road vehicle register. There is an extension of the period - this was requested - for which the result of the registration check is available in selected procedures from 30 days to two years. The proposal also takes further steps towards the electronisation of the state administration, allowing for example the submission of certain requests by electronic means, etc. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please let the rapporteur for first reading take the floor, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment implements the new legislative conditions and deadlines of the European Union. In particular, the EU has carried out an overall revision of the legislation approving the technical competence of vehicles, their systems, components and separate technical units. It is therefore necessary to make appropriate, not only terminology changes to the third head of the law, which regulates the approval of the technical competence of the individually imported road vehicle. The draft law includes several measures aimed at reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs or residents. They can be classified - in addition to the above cancellation of the authorisation of production of individually produced vehicles - in particular the possibility of booking a registration mark for a period of one month, simplifying the process of entering a change in the Register of Road Vehicles by allowing separate submission of a joint application, as well as allowing electronic submission, of the obligation to submit a registration report, even if the vehicle is required to undergo registration checks in the field of the registration agenda in the Register of Road Vehicles, and a significant extension of the period during which the outcome of the registration check is available in selected administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have no one to report to. I'll check the O.R. again. I don't see anybody from anywhere. So, the rapporteur, Madame Lady, is reporting for a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u6	Hello, I dare once again as a Member, I would like to ask for a reduction in the time limit for the committees to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-024-056.u7	I register a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. No one else is reporting to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It is not, so we will now consider the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the guarantee committee's commandment. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone, we'll vote. I've started the vote. I ask, who is economic in assigning this press as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Voting order number 227, 84 Members and Members are registered, for 69, against no one, the proposal has been accepted. I note that this press has been assigned to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? I don't see anyone. We shall vote on the reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 228, registered 86 Members, for 58, against 1, the proposal was adopted. We're ending the first reading of this press. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We will proceed to discuss the next point and that is
