ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-093-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will ask you to settle in your seats. Initiating 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Just so you know, the 94th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened at 10:30, so we have about an hour or 20 for this one. To record your participation, I will first sign you out, please log in or tell me who votes with a replacement card. I note that the MPs have informed me that all the persons in the hall are being tested, everything is fine. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 17 March of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member Jana Krutáková and a Member of Jiří Valenta. [[Gong.]] Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anybody checking in, I've called in co-workers from the lobby. [[He's waiting a while.]] In the meantime, I can read the excuses of the members of the government: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons from 10.30, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - health reasons. With the replacement card number 10, Mr Ondráček votes. Otherwise, I note that we are once again sitting in half format, and Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs. In the meantime, we've had a deal, and I'm voting on the verifiers' people. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered 78, for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Krutáková, and a Member of Jiří Valenta, to the 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 93rd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. Again, according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's up for the meeting? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 83, for 44, against no one. The motion was accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. We'll proceed to the first point.
