ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u1	8. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union regulations in the field of invasive non-originating species /house print 731/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I admit I'm not even buzzing, because the invasion species have already been calling me a few times in the past few weeks and months, so I didn't want to jinx it all the time to make them snap this time. But it looks like we have them in our hands this time. So I'll be very brief, because in detail, I presented the proposal as part of the first reading. Let me just point out that, in the meantime, of course, several committee meetings took place. The Committee on the Environment adopted in total, if I am correct, 20 amendments, and I must say here that we agree with all these proposals for the Ministry of the Environment. The Committee on Agriculture had three amendments. In one case we categorically disagree, this is a proposal that concerns weakening protection against interference with the natural development of endangered species. Then there are two other proposals, where we have a neutral or agreed position. In the meantime, of course, a number of, perhaps, dozens of other amendments have come. I'd just like to mention a few things here. Certainly, as the Ministry of the Environment, we will not agree and we have a big problem with the amendment, which would significantly simplify the removal of trees in water supply and sewerage protection zones, because when we are fighting for every tree and supporting actions such as Planting the Future, there is, of course, a relatively significant risk of felling trees and weakening their protection. Moreover, there are, of course, proposals concerning the hunting law. However, I firmly believe there, and the rapporteur will certainly speak about it, that we believe that by the fact that the hunting law has already reached its first reading, so what would normally burden this amendment from the point of view of the hunting law will be dealt with under the hunting law. We hope so, but we'll see. So I guess that's for starters, and I'm not gonna hold back, and I'm sure the debate by the number of entries will be colorful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u3	Yes, thank you. Time for this press, or another one, we have until 6:00 p.m. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the agricultural committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 731/1 to 731/4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Ondřej Babka, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues, the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee discussed this draft law at its 33rd meeting on 3 February 2021 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u5	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues especially in the left side of the hall, where I'm recording more noise so that they can calm down eventually and let their colleague speak. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u6	Thank you. Where the examination of this law was suspended and a deadline was set for the submission of amendments. The draft law was discussed at the 34th meeting of the Committee on 17 February 2021, where the Committee voted on individual amendments followed by the resolution of the Committee, recorded in the system under the number 731/4, which recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted, and instructs the Committee Chair to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and to authorise me as rapporteur of the Committee to report on the results and discussion of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, which I am doing at the meeting of the House of Deputies. I will comment on the various amendments adopted on the committees in the general debate. And now let me comment on the fact that in the second reading, a comprehensive amendment to the hunting law was recorded here in the invasion novel. Meanwhile, the hunting law has opened up and passed its first reading, which is, of course, a good thing, because by being recorded in an invasion novel, the agricultural committee would fall out of the next hearing. In this way, the Committee on the Environment will be second only as a committee, and I believe that colleagues who recorded the comprehensive amendment of hunting in second reading, so that they do not sign up to it, or withdraw their amendments, and that we will only be able to address what the invasion amendment brings mainly in the subsequent debate. Thank you for the floor. I will then sign up for the next speech in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u7	Yes. Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mrs Monika Oborná, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the agricultural committee of 17 February when the agricultural committee adopted the following resolution. Firstly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union rules in the field of invasive non-originating species, the House press 731, to approve, as amended by the amendments adopted - I will return to them afterwards, and secondly, it empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to propose, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, further necessary amendments under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Third, it empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and, fourth, instructs the Chair of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. There are three of the amendments that we have adopted in the Committee on Agriculture. One of these amendments is Mr Kott's amendment, which addresses only legislative technical corrections. Furthermore, there is an amendment approved by the Agricultural Committee, also from Mr Kott, who deals with the relation of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act to plant health measures. And the third amendment is from my colleague Balaštíková, where this proposal deals with the issue of legal possession of trophies, and this proposal also addresses an excessive administrative burden on dead individuals or products from these dead individuals, originating outside the territory of the Czech Republic. All for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u9	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate in which a total of 10 Members are enrolled. First is Mrs Balcarová, then Mr Babka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to speak first about the invasion novel. We were discussing it on the committee at first only as part of the regulation of invasion game, but then the amendment to hunting law was found there. I would like to say that this has really made this amendment very difficult to discuss. That's what I wanted to mention at the beginning. I consider it quite unfortunate and unstandard. And now, on the issue of the amendment on invasive species. I am putting an amendment which introduces the introduction of the national list to this amendment because they are invasive species that are not included in the European list of invasive species and are causing great problems in Czech nature. I would like to mention here specifically the expansion of the mink, which decimates in some areas of fish population, crayfish, amphibians. He's a pretty strong predator, and he's not alone. For plants, I might mention an alpine puppy, which, especially in the mountains, for example in KRNAP or in the Jizera Mountains, creates relatively large areas and protectors have a big problem with it. By not being included on the European list - because, as an alpine cheerleader, it certainly does not act as an invasion species in some areas of Europe, unfortunately in our nature, and by not being on that list, there is no clear mechanism for action against such a predator, whether it is a plant or an animal. That is why I am putting in the amendment an amendment that would create the national list or require it to be created. In fact, the European Union also encourages the Member States to draw up this national list. Six European countries have their own national list, the Czech Republic has not agreed to this, although I think it would be very desirable because some animals are not on the European list. So that's my first amendment. The second concerns the replacement planting of trees. It is based on the fact that we see it now in spring, March, and even in April, that trees in Czech cities are really disappearing, they are cut down in bulk. The problem is that it is not clear how it is with the replacement planting, because in legislation, in the law on conservation of nature and landscape, the word "may" - that anyone who allows cutting can order replacement plantings. The fact that they often do not order this replacement planting is problematic because then the costs of new trees solve cities, solve it from their budget, and you all know that planting a tree and taking care of a tree for five years is not easy at all and that it is very expensive. In that law, the word "must" used to say that the person who permits the felling of trees must store replacement plantings, then it has softened to the word "may," and the environmental methodology already says that the administrative authority must store the replacement plantings. But the wording of the law is confusing in this regard, as I have already mentioned. The methodology of the Ministry of Environment is not respected in practice, it is not respected by decisions of individual municipalities. Some municipalities store replacement plantings as a standard, some do not. Another thing about replacement planting, because it is clear that somewhere where the areas are fully built and there is no way to plant trees there, so whoever is cutting should replace in some financial statement the environmental damage caused by cutting the trees. In such a case, the legislator calculated that a levy would be paid for the cut trees, which would subsequently be used to plant trees in another place, which makes sense. But unfortunately, the Ministry of the Environment has not yet processed such a regulation. The decree has not yet been drawn up, so that is where I am heading with the amendment to be completed. Then I would like to introduce to you two other amendments that are withdrawn to the amendment to the hunting amendment, this is about the amendment by Mr Staněk, Kott and Kováčik. The first of these amendments concerns a lot of invasion amendments because they impose an obligation to hunt invasive species. This is because hunters often, even though predators like the northern raccoon, raccoon dog, river nutria or mink, which cause great damage in the environment, in the biotope, so the hunters ignore them, and I think that is problematic. When they're doing hunting in that area, they should somehow interfere with the invasion species. I've been quite consulting this with the hunters' representatives, and they've responded to the fact that if they were given a gunfight for it, which is some kind of payment mechanism that I don't know very well, but I think I'm going to consult the Ministry in some way that they'd be willing to do that. So this is one amendment to Mr Staněk, Kott and Kováčik's amendment. [[17,00 hours]] And the other one is about minting foxes, it's a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. It's a practice that I don't think is in the hunting unions anymore, because it doesn't really belong in our century, but it's legally allowed. So I'm putting forward an amendment that would ban the fresh birth of both foxes and badgers from being brutally killed just because it's a way to regulate foxes. There are many other ways for foxes to be hunted and regulated, and minting only in about 10 percent regulates the state of foxes, so it can be seen that it can be replaced very easily in some other way. So I would very much like this brutal way of regulating foxes not to be practiced in the future. That's all for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u11	Thank you and please Mr Babka in the general debate. Mr Elfmark will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. Have a good day again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement on the amendments that we have had the opportunity to discuss on the Committee on the Environment. Eva Fialová recorded an amendment supplementing the competence of nature conservation authorities to restrict or prohibit the implementation of fireworks and the use of fireworks in all specially protected territories and their protection zones, as well as in Natura 2000 sites. In this case, one can certainly agree with the recommendation of the Guarantee Committee on the environment, as this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction from the point of view of nature conservation. This step, i.e. the ban on pyrotechnics, is being approached more and more frequently by the municipalities themselves, and it is therefore a sort of trend that should certainly not miss our attention. This ban will have a positive effect on nature, on wildlife, on the air in cities and villages, and also on domestic animals such as dogs and cats will certainly be welcomed by the majority of our country's population. The second amendment by my colleague Fialová, who also passed smoothly by the Committee on the Environment, is to extend the competence of nature keepers to stop motor vehicles on special purpose roads in specially protected areas. This amendment responds appropriately to current problems related to the entry of motor vehicles, quadricycles, scooters and similar vehicles outside the roads and local communications, especially in protected areas. The fact that such a procedure is correct also shows us the current situation, where there is a massive increase in the attendance of natural touristic attractive places. On the contrary, what I cannot agree with is the amendment adopted by Mr Josef Kott to the Committee on Agriculture. This proposal, which amends the law on the conservation of nature and landscape, is contrary to the Council directive on the conservation of natural habitats, but also to the logic of protecting heavily endangered animal species. This proposal allows for the exclusion of protection against interference in the natural development of highly endangered animal species for the purpose of carrying out economic activities. This cannot be agreed with, however much I would try to understand the efforts of my fellow Members in the agricultural committee. As rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, I will endeavour to vote separately on this amendment at the subsequent third reading in order to be separated from the resolution of the Agricultural Committee, which otherwise contains proposals with which consent can be given, such as the proposal of my colleague Balaštíková, who seeks to exclude dead individuals from the prohibition of possession and transport of specially protected animal species imported into the Czech Republic. Another amendment is then the proposal by Mr Kott concerning the removal of trees in the water supply protection and sewerage protection zone without appropriate permission. As has already been mentioned, this amendment would have a major impact on street green, which has a very fundamental ecological function in cities from cooling the environment to the aesthetic impact of the city. According to the studies, the adoption of this proposal would involve 80 per cent of the trees in the built-up area. I have already talked about the amendments to hunting, which have been recorded, I will hope that we will not have to devote ourselves to them on the Committee on the Environment in order to speed up the adoption of the invasion amendment, and I have also uploaded an amendment to the system today, which changes the effectiveness of the invasion amendment, because we did not have time to discuss this, so I propose a change in effectiveness to 1 January 2022. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u13	Thank you. And now, Mr Elfmark, Mr Zahradník will be prepared in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to present three amendments today. One amendment concerns a specific invasion amendment and two amendments concern the amendment of colleagues Staněk, Kott and Kováčik. The first amendment addresses the elimination of the total exemptions for nature conservation authorities. The amendment point, which I propose to delete, stipulates that the protection is in accordance with § 5a para. 1 - bird capture, deliberate damage to eggs and destruction of nests, § 7 and 8 - felling of trees, § 10 para. 2 and 3 - destruction and damage of caves, § 16a to 16d, § 26 - deliberate expansion of geographically non-originating species, § 29 and 34 - change of water regime of the land, § 35 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 to 3 - implementation of buildings, § 44 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2 - destruction of memorable trees, § 49 para. 1 - destruction of specially protected plants and § 50 para. 1 and 2 - killing of specially protected animal species. They shall not apply to activities carried out by personnel of nature conservation authorities in the interest of nature conservation. This change is not related to the invasion novel. The attempt to hide such significant and controversial changes as paragraph 67 of the Implementing Regulation is contrary to Article 39 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 legislative rules of the government and it is extremely inappropriate. Such wide exceptions are absolutely unprecedented and represent not only a serious change in the concept of Czech nature protection, but also a restriction on public access to information and participation in proceedings. The present protection was based on a dialogue with the public, which could use its rights under the Act on Free Access to Information or the Nature and Landscape Protection Act in order to learn in time about the intended interventions and to participate in the decision-making process. However, in the case of approval of the proposed amendment, no one shall know about the most serious interventions except for the employees of the nature conservation authorities. In doing so, experience has shown that this approach can be fatal. For example, thanks to public intervention and mediation, the cutting in Šumava has been blocked, and the progress of the nature conservation authorities has been shown to be wrong, and today the nature protection authorities are going the other way around. If the proposed change were to apply, the public would never know about cutting. The submitted change has no positive effect. The granting of exemptions for nature conservation authorities is bureaucratically very simple, for most bans, such as driving vehicles into national parks, off-road movements are issued across the board for several years in advance. For controversial purposes only, individual procedures are conducted and the nature protection authority, after the involvement of the public, will rethink the intention itself. After the amendment of the law, however, no proceedings will be conducted. This is the presentation of the first amendment. The second amendment, which I would like to present, concerns the possibility of hunting injured game outside the hunting season. It is a very simple amendment, and it can basically be commented on in such a way that it is necessary to allow hunting for injured or sick game even outside the hunting period to prevent its further suffering. [[17.10 hours]] And the third amendment concerns setting the conditions for holding a fox in captivity for the purposes of training dogs. Both of these amendments are amendments to Mr Staněk, Kott and Kováčik's proposals. Hunters for the training of hunting dogs may hold in captivity a fox that serves as a tool for this particular training. The current legislation does not require compliance with any minimum parameters for such custody. In practice, sporadically controls of veterinary administration are limited to verifying vaccination against rabies. Foxes are often held under completely unsatisfactory conditions. It is necessary to set the conditions for the holding of foxes in captivity by decree, in particular, because so held foxes were often born in the wild and violently transferred to captivity. The more precise conditions for each particular case are then further set out in the opinion of the state administration of hunting and animal protection against abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u15	Thank you. And now, Mr Zahradník, then Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present two amendments. The first concerns directly the Act on non-originating invasive species, its very nature, or the part of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which is open within it. This is a proposal that we are presenting together with our colleague, Mr Petr Bendl, proposing to abolish the institute of pre-emptive rights for unbuilt land situated outside the built-up territory of municipalities in the territory of national parks, national nature reserves, national natural monuments. To justify my proposal, it is not necessary and essential that all unbuilt land in national parks, national nature reserves and national natural monuments be owned by the State in order to ensure the public interest. In order to ensure the desired biodiversity and nature conservation, it is, on the contrary, a more appropriate solution to maintaining a wider range of landowners, especially if ownership is linked to the management of family farms, which naturally generate responsible care and the provision of the required public interest. Moreover, the management of such land, whatever ownership it is, is very strictly regulated by a certain degree of nature protection, which is binding on all owners without exception. Another important reason is that the existence of the pre-emptive right of the State to private property, wherever it lies, is a fundamental intervention in one of the fundamental rights, and that is the right to freely dispose of its property guaranteed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. At the same time, the existence of a pre-emptive right to private land prevents the owner of the plot from voicing the land for the loan and to invest reasonably in its management in compliance with the nature conservation measures. There is a seal on the land in the land register, which makes it impossible for him to handle his property. So the institute of pre-emptive law of the state is logically to be seen as an entirely extreme means, which, in this case, in our opinion, is not. And it is also not at all impossible that a similar policy will be wanted by the state over time in other locations, such as in water protection zones or on other protected areas, which would therefore affect a much larger number of land and therefore their owners. I have one more point to make. I have already submitted my proposal in a slightly different form to the Committee on the Environment, so it became known and caused some resistance to environmentalists or environmental activists who, as the main argument against it, warned against privatization of land on the territory of national parks. It is, of course, a logical error, because it is essentially private land, it is privately owned, someone wants to have it with them, they want to sell it, they want to convert it to someone, and here they come to become their pre-emptive right. So it is not possible to privatise land that is already privately owned. The only thing that we have taken into account - and here I think the critics were right, and I recognise the criticism - is that we have maintained the pre-emptive right or we are proposing to maintain, we propose to maintain - I must reiterate that this is a proposal, of course - to preserve the pre-emptive right to land that is related to caves where the situation is different. Here, as is known, the cave, the underground unit, has nothing to do with the land, while perhaps entering the cave is already a part of it, and this could prevent the state from making reasonable use of that value. So this is where we propose to maintain the pre-emptive right to land with caves related to it. So our proposal is to abolish the pre-emptive right institute for unbuilt land situated in the territory of national parks, nature reserves and natural monuments that are privately owned. My next proposal concerns a proposal that has already been included in the system under number 7631. It is a proposal that Mr Antonín Staněk will probably be presenting shortly, and it is therefore the hunting law that is tabled there as an amendment. My change concerns § 2 letter. (c) which is a list of animals which cannot be fished under international agreements by which the Czech Republic is bound or which are species of game, in particular protected animals under special rules, and which can only be fished if the derogation provided for in those Regulations is allowed for fishing. In this section, a wolf or a bear, a feature and other such animals, which are of course forbidden to hunt, but which, if necessary, can be fished for an exception. I propose to include in this list also the European tooth, namely for the last member in the list, in the list in Section 2 letter. (c) given, for the river otter. So for the river otter, Lutra lutra, I suggest we add the words "European Tooth, Bison lutra." In fact, the European tooth is still only bred in a form of interest farming, and therefore, if it should be reasonably continued in breeding, then it is necessary to be able to farm those breedings, groups of animals in a hunter's way, i.e., if necessary pieces of weak, aged or those that need to be eliminated from breeding, hunter's way. So if a European tooth was included in that list, it would be possible to kill it, if necessary, and therefore use it economically, which is of course secondary, secondary, but also important. It could then become possible that the breeding of a European tooth could spread and could be kept in the fields or farms, thus bringing it closer to the conditions under which this animal is kept in other European countries. So I suggest we change § 2 letter. (c) in the proposal submitted by colleague Staněk, namely in the draft hunting law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u17	Thank you and now Mr Antonín Staněk, Mr Čižinský will be prepared. We are in a general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by opening my speech today, I would like to state that my... or the amendments which we put forward together with colleagues Kott and Kováčik, we are ready to withdraw at the moment if we could discuss the hunting law and get it to second reading, or through second reading. Then, of course, we will withdraw these amendments in the Act on invasive non-originating species. However, since it is not quite certain what fate the hunting law will meet, we will read these proposals so far. I would also like to say that I fully support the current government bill with the number of the House press 731. The proposal for this government amendment is the result not only of many negotiations, but also of a compromise agreement between the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Landowners. This is a very important change in a number of laws, which is absolutely necessary for the full functioning of the suppression of invasive non-originating species. However, I consider it necessary to add some amendments to the proposal currently under discussion to ensure links with other related regulations, due to greater efficiency and applicability, including any changes in the list of eradication species. The necessary adjustment is the amendment proposed by us in the Law on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, which will allow the regulation of invasive non-originating species at night without the need for exceptional proceedings under the Hunting Act, namely weapons for shooting at night with electronic sights. Some invasive species have predominantly night activity and therefore this change is necessary in relation to their effective eradication. The proposed amendment regulates the law on hunting in relation to reporting, which follows from the European IAS Regulation and generally sets hunting and its probability more effectively and administratively more easily. At local level, it will be much easier to regulate the number states of invasive non-originating species as well as any kind of game that might have an invasive character, thereby reducing the negative impact of unwanted numbers, whether in relation to damage or other negative accompanying effects, such as the suppression of biodiversity. Among other things, this proposal gives the tools to the chasing users themselves, who, in consequence, will be able to regulate the number states of species much more effectively without the complex involvement of state hunting management by authorising exemptions. The proposed amendment contains, for these reasons, the introduction of an electronic hunting system which will lead to the clarity of the whole hunting system, as well as the reporting of the number of individuals caught by invasive non-originating species as required by the European Commission, the dissolution of the way in which game is hunted and the killing of invasive non-originating animals for hunters, the introduction of a control mechanism for game hunters and killed invasive non-originating species by photographs, which is an economically and administratively less demanding system than the system of presentation of marker agents. This registration system provides a wide possibility for usability for example for the reimbursement of compensation or incentives for the eradication of these species and, last but not least, for effective control of the hunting plan and for the immediate response of the hunting authority, for example by imposing measures or sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge you, at the end of my speech, to support our joint amendment, because it not only brings about an improvement in the House press of 731 in terms of its practical feasibility, but also leads to a reduction in the overall costs both on the part of the entities concerned and, in particular, on the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u19	Thank you and now please Mr Čižinský in the general debate, Mr Dolínek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to present here two House documents, namely House document 7651, which is a douglasku tisolist and dealing with it, and House document 7652, where it is a deer Siku, which crosses with our European deer and its gene pool is very threatening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u21	Thank you. I will note the need for press in a detailed debate, and I will ask Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u22	Thank you. Good afternoon, I would also like to say from this point of view that I support the amendment by my colleague Staněk and others in the area of hunting, and I also support the fact that it would be very useful for this House to set aside time for this and to discuss the laws so that we do not have to follow the path of the amendment. However, a part of the professional community in the area of hunting has turned to me, which is concerned that if this had not been done, and either the laws or the amendment have not been discussed, even though the Minister and the other would have tried to discuss it and should have been voted. If it didn't work out, I prepared an amendment that only directly responds to one of the previous labels that was historically approved there in the area of cloven-hoofed game, but it is a matter that simply technically prevents something from being triggered now that part of the hunters think it would not be feasible on the one hand and, on the other, that it is not sufficiently specified in the law that there are certain arguments about interpretation as to how it could be taken. This means that I will, therefore, read in a detailed debate an amendment which will lead to the fact that there could be at least some way of treating it for the next two years if none of these efforts did not work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u23	Thank you. Now, Mrs Aulická is enrolled in the general debate. But I don't see her in the hall, so for the time being, the application will be moved to the end, and I beg Mrs Adámková. Mrs Adámková, I see... [[Voice off the microphone.]] So Mrs Adámková withdraws her application, or thinks it is wrong, so Mr Kott. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since I have been mentioned here both from the Minister's mouth and the rapporteur's mouth, I will first comment on the amendment that I tabled on the Committee on Agriculture. One experience led me to this, and this is last year's overgrowth of the field vole in some relatively important locations, which hit basically the whole of Moravia, and if the weather was not favourable, I believe that this problem occurred in a significant part of the Czech Republic as such. And here it is a non-compliance between the plant health law, which is addressed by the Central Audit and Testing Institute, and the Nature Conservation Act and the Regional Region. Individual farmers are put in a rather uncomfortable situation here, where, as a result of the unclear competences of these two institutions, which are at the same level, they are being pushed to the point that they are not able to intervene at the right time on their land, and not only will they lose their crops, but also, in fact, they are doing a negative job by multiplying the harmful factor on their land and this one is moving to the surrounding districts and regions where they are actually forced to undergo this, into large quotation marks, Martyrium again. So it's just to explain what the Minister and the rapporteur have said here. And now to my amendment concerning water supply and sewerage protection zones. So I would like to say that I have put forward and today's government proposal, which deals with the protection of landscape and nature, because it puts the supply of drinking water equal to that and the draining of other public services through the same approach to possible preventive removal of crops in the protection zones. This will, in my opinion, loosen the hands of infrastructure operators and owners, especially municipalities and cities. In the end, this will enable the proposal to ensure seamless and continuous supply of drinking water and draining for final customers. [[17.30 hours]] And now experience with the fact that in the past there are relatively often recorded cases where the owner or operator of the water and sewage infrastructure has been sanctioned for trying to fulfill the letter of his law, and that means ensuring timely and smooth supply of drinking water to households and companies and to ensure de-watering. I am trying to correct this paradox with my amendment, which is deposited in the system as House document 7485. It is not uncommon for an infrastructure manager to first ask the environmental authority for permission to adjust the terrain, such as felling of trees, in order to carry out the repair, and if it is an event carrying elements of an accident, it must act immediately, even if it is subjected to sanctions, because of course it is not able to obtain the necessary permission from the environmental authority so quickly. The aim of the proposal is to ensure free access within the protection zone to the facilities in question to supply the population with drinking water and sewage, and especially in recent years, when we are actually dealing with the drought phenomenon, although it is obviously not the case last year, it is essential that the supply of drinking water is not interrupted in principle in my opinion by an unnecessary problem caused by the inaccessibility of public water supply and the sewerage of air-raid trees, which often become permanent crops in the area. In addition to this problem of access to waterloaders, the secondary effect of such a condition is the increased frequency of malfunctions in the draining, which is caused by irreversible damage to the sewer line by root bales. Especially on the part of environmentalists, and it is therefore a significant part of ornithologists, a large number of objections were raised following the publication of my amendment, which overwhelmed us all with e-mails, and these prepared texts drew attention to the potential risk of environmental damage. I am deeply sorry for this, because, of course, these generated e-mails have not always told the truth about what the amendment is actually dealing with, and by talking about destroying nesting species, I do not think that this is an immediate matter that my amendment is dealing with. Water companies are certainly not the least interested in surface felling, and in addition, the removal of air raid trees is always carried out according to the draft law at a time of growing calm and it is necessary to be able to intervene as soon as possible from the detection of the failure. This means that the moment we create space for there not to be any air raid trees, something that was mentioned by the organizations that flooded our e-mail boxes will not occur at all. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal removes the unequally unjustified position of individual network sectors. There is no rational argument that allows one sector to intervene in greenery without the permission of the nature protection authority and other sectors not. The fact that the public service provider, which water supply is, must first request in the case of maintenance or failure, seems particularly quaint to me and I can't figure out why the electricity network or gas actually have that option and the water pipes and sewerage are sanctioned in this way. Moreover, in practice, disturbances in the sewer line can mean that the basically failure of the sewer system, when waste water does not reach the treatment plant as it should, can contaminate not only the rock environment, but also the groundwater and surface water. Once again, I apologize to everyone for the unsolicited e-mails you received, and I will sign up for my amendment with a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u25	Thank you. Good evening, dear colleagues. Mr. Marian Jurečka will take the floor with priority rights. Madam Hana Aulická will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u26	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I will be very brief. I have read two amendments to this press, which aim at one important thing with its content, and it concerns that in recent years we have seen a large increase in people who have behaved in the forest in a way that harms forests, especially forests that are at some stage of renewal, especially by using motor vehicles such as motorcycles, cross cars, quadricycles, but also large off-road motor vehicles. We are referring to the lack of competence of the forest guard, and therefore, by my amendment or two amendments, I am going to extend the possibilities and competences of the forest guard, as has been done in the past with the hunting guard, so that whoever is and meets all the parameters and requirements of the forest guard can possibly in that one variant - that is so much easier, basic - have the power to stop the motor vehicle, check whether the driver of the motor vehicle is allowed to move on the forest plot. In the second amendment, those competences are a little wider, which means not only to be able to stop the motor vehicle, but, where appropriate, to obtain a visual and audio recording in order to document the negotiations that were discussed. It comes from the legislation that our legislation knows, which means what the standard of hunting guard today is, so we can expand it for the forest guard. The purpose of these proposals is to really lead the situation to better protect forests, and that is the negative behaviour that is unfortunately taking place there and expanding so that we are able to define ourselves against it, or to define the specific people who are committing this. These are two amendments. I am aware that there is also a negotiation of hunting law at the same time. I think it's more in there, we all know that, but I'm loading it here, and I'm applying. If there's a problem with the hunting law, I'm ready for one or the other press to download it in the third reading, so please take it this way. But I think it's a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u27	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická will be speaking in the general debate, so far as the last one applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I must therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that I did not think that I would ever resort to invasive non-originating species, in any case that could happen. And I would just like to briefly imagine the amendment that I tabled together with my colleague Matušovská and colleague Ondráček. The reason for the proposed amendment is to abolish the amendments to Act No. 449/2001 Coll., on hunting, on the basis of what is actually taking place there, their not complete clarity, which would bring problems bordering upon the impossibility of their application if they become effective. The incomplete hunting planning system and the catch control system of the cloven-hoofed game can obviously not be applied in such a way that it is functional, yet it would require enormous costs to be incurred that would be ineffective. Amendment to Article 3 (1) (a) 2 is faulty because it does not consider animals to be part of forest ecosystems, and is therefore, in the sense, confusing. Amendment to Article 3 (1) (a) 4 contains an authorisation to issue a decree on the method of establishing excessive damage to forest ecosystems of animals. For one thing, the wording is confusing because it misjudges animals as part of the forest ecosystem, and the decree would also have to contain the effect of game on all components of the forest ecosystem, such as the effect of how many insects step on or for how many insects create favourable living conditions as a result of the production of dung. That authorisation is factually incorruptible. [[17.40 hours]] The amendment of Sections 36 and 37 would mean the introduction of the decision-making of the state hunting administration each year on each individual hunting management plan, which is about 5,800, i.e. one for each hunting in the Czech Republic. It would mean an extraordinary administrative burden with dubious benefits. For the parties to the decision on the provisions of the hunting plan, not only the holder and user of the hunting, but also the holders and users of neighbouring hunting would have to be the holder and user of the hunting plan. Furthermore, it may be persons managing agricultural and forestry land whose rights may thus be affected, thereby becoming other parties to the proceedings. Everyone would need to be delivered into their own hands, which currently costs at least 65 crowns, depending on the weight of writing, of course. It is not clear what is meant to be the basis for drawing up a hunting management plan. It is not even apparent to whom it may be imposed without the completion of the assessment, on the basis of the above, it is concluded that an expert's opinion is to be drawn up by a court expert or expert's institute, with the cost of mapping the average chase of approximately 18 hectares, estimated to be tens of thousands of crowns in individual cases - or 1.18 hectares - may have reached a higher order. If any of the parties wanted to appeal, they would have had to challenge the non-relevance of the expert opinion, which is only possible under the condition of a competitive expert opinion. The appeal administrative authority, the regional authority, would then have to have the third, reference expert's opinion processed, and on the basis of it, to decide on the appeal. In the event of an appeal, only the costs of the assessment would probably amount to no less than CZK 150,000. As a result of the adoption of only a part of the amendment, the obligation to draw up an evaluation for game farming for the purposes of the set amount of catch has been misguided, but the state management of hunting for farming areas has no power to determine the amount of catch. Thank you for letting me read part of the explanatory note, and I won't delay, and then I'll just sign up for my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u29	Thank you. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate electronically or from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? It is not, so I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. And Mrs Dana Balcarová will perform first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to apply to my seven amendments. The first concerns the national list, and it is Amendment 7596. The second is an amendment concerning replacement planting, and it is Amendment 7599. And the last one that concerns the general exceptions, and it's 7598. Other amendments are the hunting of invasive species, 7732. The next one's a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no, 7730. Another is hunting wounded game, 7731, and the last is holding foxes in captivity, 7733.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u31	Thank you. Next is Mr Ondřej Babka and Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for Amendment 8158, and it is a proposal that changes efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u33	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník will speak in a detailed debate, Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared because Mr Antonín Staněk is not present. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u34	Mr Vice-President, I am applying to the amendment, which is under number 7628 in the system, that is the pre-emptive right, and secondly to the amendment, which is listed as the House document in system 8134, that is the European tooth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u35	Thank you. As Mr Antonín Staněk is not present, Mr Jan Čižinský will speak, Mr Petr Dolínek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u36	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to sign up for two documents, I'm still looking for the numbers, and I've already got them, 7651 and 7652. [[on mobile phone]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u37	Thank you. Mr Petr Dolínek will speak in a detailed debate and prepare Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u38	Thank you. My proposed amendment is in the system under number 8157. I hereby declare myself to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u39	Ms Hana Aulická will speak in a detailed debate, Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I am applying to the House press for an amendment under number 8169. I said the reasons in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u41	Thank you. Mr Radek Holomčík will speak in a detailed debate, Mr Josef Kott will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u42	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for two amendments. I recorded the first one in the system and it is led under number 7630 and the second one was loaded by a fellow Member named Bendl and is in the system mentioned under number 7715. Both proposals are justified in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u43	Thank you. Mr Josef Kott will speak in a detailed debate, Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for my House document 7485, these are the water pipes and the sewers, and I would also like to sign up for the House document, which my colleague Staněk here justified, is the House document 7629, 7631 and 7632 and these are dealing with the complex amendment to the hunting law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u45	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka will be the last to speak in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u46	Thank you. I am applying to the two amendments that I have justified in the general debate, and these are under headings 7709 and 7710. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-013-008.u47	Thank you. I don't see anyone else logged into a detailed debate electronically or from the scene, ending second reading of this press. The next item to be discussed is:
