ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /German press 864/6/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 864/7. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Alena Dernerová among us and ask the Czech Government to comment on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. At the same time, before I give him my word, I will ask the House again for peace! I ask my colleagues if they are still discussing the invasion species to do so in the foyer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you of the main objectives of the amendment to the Act on addictive substances and present to you the opinion of the Ministry of Health on the proposals with which the Senate has returned this material to the Chamber of Deputies. The essential objectives of the proposal are the incorporation of prescription and dispensing of medicinal products containing addictive substances into an electronic recipe marked "highly addictive substance," a so-called blue strip recipe, and an increase in the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use for patients in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, in order to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use and eliminate current shortcomings, the draft law introduces a new system of licences for the cultivation of cannabis plants for therapeutic use. The State Institute for Drug Control will no longer buy cannabis for therapeutic use from growers, thereby saving funds and making cannabis distribution more effective for therapeutic use from growers to patients. Due to the expected increase in production in the Czech Republic there will be an increase in competition with a positive impact on the final price of medicinal products containing cannabis for therapeutic use for Czech patients. This proposal was returned to the Chamber of Deputies in particular with the view that the Senate considered it necessary to reduce the limit of the THC content for the classification of technical cannabis from the Chamber of Deputies approved 1 per cent to the value of normal and recognised in European countries, i.e. to 0,3 per cent of THC in technical cannabis, when this limit is also used to remove the entry of cannabis extract from the list of addictive substances. This border is also a steady line between the offence and the offence, thus maintaining it will not have an impact on the criminal policy of this country, and at the same time this border will also reverse the risk of the action by the European Commission due to a significant crossing of the THC border in cannabis plants compared to the common European catalogue of varieties. Furthermore, the Senate returned the bill with an amendment proposing the return of the farmer's obligation to have a certificate of good manufacturing practice. As Minister of Health, I ask you, honourable Members, to approve this bill, including the changes proposed by the Senate, as this proposal as a whole brings a number of benefits to patients in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u3	I thank Minister Adam Vojtěch and now I will ask Senator Alena Dernerová to justify the Senate resolution. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, honourable Members, Madame Members, I have come as a representative of the Senate, explaining why we have actually adopted two amendments in the Senate. It was because, in fact, this bill was then enriched, the government bill, the parliamentary proposal. That means he didn't pass the classic route, he didn't pass the interdepartmental procedure. [[16.50 hours]] Moreover, this proposal significantly deviates from European practice. Everywhere in Europe, except Switzerland, which is not in the European Union, the THC limit is 0.2 %. We're already at 0.3 percent. In fact, with this proposal that was adopted here, it was Professor Vyzula's parliamentary proposal, we are increasing to 1%. I approached Mr. Frydrych, head of DEA, with questions. He answered them quite openly, relevantly. That means one authority says it's wrong. Moreover, I have also received the opinion of the Supreme Prosecutor, Pavel Zeman, who says: Yes, let us discuss this, but this cannot go the way of the parliamentary motion. Other negative opinions were from the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of Health and Customs. For this reason, we have accepted what we have adopted in the Senate, which means that we return from 1% to 0.3 percent, even though it is higher, and we can essentially continue to talk about it. Furthermore, what the Minister said is important: it is essential that the European Commission can start arbitration with us, because we will be out of common European practice, in addition to Switzerland, which is not in the EU, and therefore we do not respect the international convention on addictive substances. According to the Attorney General, there would also be a crime scene. If there are any other discussion posts going on, I will also tell you why I am so intensely defending this Senate amendment, because the way it came to us was probably not kosher. Another is that we want the certificate of good cultivation and manufacturing practice to return. This is the second amendment of my colleague Roman Kraus. So I'm asking you to support the Senate proposals and then the entire bill. If necessary, I will step out and tell you what led me to this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u5	I thank Senator Alena Dernerová and ask if she will comment on the Senate resolution by the rapporteur of the Rostislav Vyzula Guarantee Committee, but I think he is excused, he is not present. In that case, I ask if the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Karel Tureček, wishes to comment? It's not like that. I am opening the debate and stating that I have no written application for it. Yes, I see an application from the scene. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A serious colleague, colleagues, left this House a few months ago, a pragmatic and public health-friendly amendment, an amendment whose implementation would mean not only a significant development of the industrial sector with obvious potential, but also a wider range of cannabis medicines for patients. However, on two points, the Senate did not fully understand our intention and came up with amendments that bring us back to the last century. First of all, it is an increase in the limit for THC in technical cannabis. This was intended to prevent unnecessary criminalisation of farmers who did nothing wrong and only because of too good weather here and there exceed the limit of 0,3 % of THC in plants that are legally grown. Also, this increase in the limit for THC should unlock the enormous economic potential of growing technical cannabis in the Czech Republic for use in food and cosmetics. Unfortunately, false arguments prevailed in the Senate and a version of the amendment was adopted, which does not reflect current trends in international regulation of non-familiar cannabis and, on the contrary, returns the whole amendment somewhere until 1961. We have already been through this discussion once before, so I believe that the House will make the right decision again and will not argue with the Senate. And then there's the second senát pre-empted demand to comply with the right manufacturing, emphasising manufacturing practice for cannabis plant growers for therapeutic use. The House's proposal logically proposes compliance with the obligation of manufacturing practice for those who process cannabis, not cultivate it. The Senate goes even further in this matter and calls for compliance with manufacturing practice for those who produce nothing. And it's not a small matter. The manufacturing practice in this case is at the level of laboratory manufacturing of synthetic drugs, which if you imagine a cannabis grower, here are the certifications... their price is derived from how much room you need to certify, so it simply raises the price of medical cannabis unnecessarily. The quality of the resulting medicinal product is ensured either way at the processing stage, where compliance with the conditions of good manufacturing practice would, of course, still be necessary on the basis of the House version. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to reject the Senate version and to support the text approved by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u7	Thank you, Mr Vymazal. Who's next for the debate? Mrs. Senator Dernerová. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u8	Thank you. So I'm going to comment on why I'm still doing this. Because - I won't name it, but one person came to the Senate who said he was a cannabis grower and that he prepared a bill, a parliamentary bill of 80 percent he himself. He told me there was no problem bypassing the Members to vote again for the original version, not for the Senate version. For me, I'm saying this is very wrong. That's just no way to make laws. I have to say, I'm willing to talk about things, but they have to go through the standard route. I cannot deal with such a serious matter by a Member's proposal. I say for me, that is why I have also decided this amendment with the support of my colleagues, others signed it, filed it because I do not think... Even if this guy tells me it's business, but who's it gonna be business for? I'm just saying... Yes, for farmers of 1% and we will then resist arbitration. So let's wait and talk and have fun. I think this is a completely lucid proposal for all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u9	Thank you, Senator Dernerová. Who's next for the debate? He Vymazal a colleague once more. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say that the proposal that we are discussing here, the one that has been passed by the agricultural committee, we have prepared with my colleague Radek Holomčík, with lawyers and several experts from the cannabis community, but I do not know that 80 percent is written by anyone other than me and Radek Holomčík. So I don't think that's true, no matter what the man in the Senate said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u11	Thank you. Anyone else for the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? No. Madam senator? Not either. In that case, we can proceed further and proceed to the vote pursuant to Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the following resolution require the approval of an absolute majority of Members present. I've reengaged, I've checked you out again. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards, and in the meantime, I will make a motion for a resolution. '"The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, pursuant to the House's Press 864/6, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House's Press 864/7.' [[Act on Medicines]] I've started voting 34 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 34, from 151 Members present for 51, against 23. The motion was not accepted. [[17,00 hours]] Therefore, there is a vote under Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The necessary number of votes is set and I will make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, Act on Medicines, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to the Parliamentary Press 864/6.' I've started voting number 35 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 35, from 157 in favour of 139, against 1. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the Senator and I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting. Two thousand crowns, as my colleague Farský handed them over, are still at the chair's table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-004-004.u12	Good afternoon. Now, let's look at the point.
