ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 17/2012 Coll., on Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws / House print 983/ - third reading The Minister is in his place and the rapporteur is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. The Guarantee Committee shall be the Security Committee. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 983/3, which was delivered on 17 June 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 983/4. [[10.10 hours]] The appellant is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, this is a very important law for the Police of the Czech Republic, which is why I very much wanted to discuss it during this parliamentary term. Perhaps to explain: The Ministry of the Interior has prepared two amendments concerning the Police Act. One was a so-called big amendment, it was press 642, and then this amendment, where it was actually dealt with in principle mainly the enforcement of outstanding penalties for traffic offences, when actually a new one is being introduced, when after linking police databases and Customs will be able to check the police officer on the road, first of all, to see if the driver doesn't have any outstanding payments for past offences, and if that is the case, he will, of course, invite the driver to pay all dues. And if he does not do so, the policeman will be entitled to immobilise the vehicle either by deploying a so-called shoe or removing registration marks, which is a very fundamental change. We have experience from operating such that especially foreign truck drivers do not pay fines very often, simply ignore the fine granted and rely on nothing to happen to them. At the same time, when a police officer will be able to say what the total amount of debt is and demand payment, and will also have a very strong tool to convince the driver that it is really good to pay the fine, that is, if he does not pay, registration marks will be removed, so first of all, in my view, the respect of this kind of driver towards the Police of the Czech Republic will increase and, at the same time, the enforcement of fines will increase. So that was the original intention of this law. After it has become apparent that we will not be able to make the big amendment, I want to thank the Security Committee, who has focused on creating a comprehensive amendment to this press and taking over the key parts of the very big amendment. I say key, but uncontroversial, because, of course, we are going to have a big discussion on some points, and from my point of view, the committee has very sensitively agreed on what is needed and what is not controversial, and this has been tabled as an amendment. The great press originally included things such as intelligence as evidence, sensitive data for the fight against terrorism, which, of course, from the perspective of the police and the Ministry of the Interior, would be desirable, but from the start, it has actually aroused great controversy here - so this is not in the press and there is only an amendment to the committee, which, once again, I say, is based on some consensus. So this proposal was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. As I was saying, it allows the police to enter the record of outstanding payments from the authorities. Customs. It therefore allows the retention of the registration mark or the use of the shoe in the event that the outstanding amount is not paid. This concerns overpayments for final fines for traffic offences. Then there came a comprehensive amendment further, which gives similar authorization to the officers of the municipal police, however, for the defaults for traffic offences committed in the territory of the municipality. Our aim, of course, is to increase road safety, protect the life and health of road users and increase the enforcement of the law. We also assume, of course, a higher level of compliance with road traffic rules, which, by the way, is a priority of the government approved by the BESIP National Strategy by 2030. This proposal has also been supported by the Council of the Government on Road Safety and the approval of a large comprehensive amendment from the Committee will ensure the amendment of obsolete or already outdated provisions of the Police Act and provide an important legal basis for making police procedures more effective, particularly in relation to modern security threats such as terrorism, cybercrime, unmanned vehicles, protection of exposed persons. So I guess that's the opening line. I have already said more or less about the amendments, which means, as far as the Security Committee is concerned, I already thanked there, so I would like to thank you once more - I support that. And then there's my colleague Benda with his amendment to the Penal Code. I understand, of course, that the material is serious, and I just hope that my colleague Benda doesn't, by doing this, ensure the collapse of this law in the Senate. I have spoken to my colleague Benda several times, he assured me that this will not be a problem in the Senate, so I want to believe him, but I just want to say that if this fell under the table in the Senate because of the sticker, I would be terribly sorry, and it would certainly be terribly regrettable to all those who already expect that the new law on police will apply and that everyone in the quotes will pay the benefits of the law that I was talking about. But that's more like the art of negotiating with my colleague Benda, who promised me he'd do the best he could. But I'm worried about that, so I had to put it on the mic here. So much of my party's introduction, and I beg you to support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u3	Thank you. I'll read two apologies. Mr Jiří Kobza apologizes today between 10-23 and 11.00 for work reasons and Mr Radek Holomčík today from 10.15 to 11, also for work reasons. I am opening up a debate to which he is the first rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u4	Thank you, Mr President, dear colleagues, the Minister of the Interior, as a material translator, has basically said the most important of the law. As rapporteur and chair of the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services, I would like to inform you about the course of the hearing. Perhaps some, if you look at the amendments that are under letter A, these are the amendments to the Security Committee - you see how many are there, we will propose to vote them with one vote - so we can say that there is quite a lot for one vote. And I would like to inform you about how the creation of this so-called comprehensive amendment took place. We have also adopted the House Press, a big amendment to the Police Act of the Czech Republic, and the House Press number 642, which was here in the Chamber of Deputies, but, as the Minister mentioned, it was, say, very debatable and perhaps very unvoting for some of us. Even as part of the first reading, there was a discussion about this. So, on the basis of the fact that we felt the need to discuss, and possibly some important things that are for the Police of the Czech Republic, and either specify some of the individual provisions of the Police of the Czech Republic law, or give the members or police new permissions as such, see in relation to, for example, the drones, to say this in general, but by unmanned means, so at the meeting of the subcommittee, and then at the committee's meeting, we proceeded to such a thing that we took the amendment point by point and where we found it, and now listen, listen, the importance, the absolute agreement across the whole subcommittee for the police and then also the Security Committee - that is, there is not one single Member or MEP who would have any reservation with the amendment point - so we have included this point in the so-called comprehensive amendment. And I believe that colleagues who have worked and worked a great deal of work, both in the subcommittee for the police and subsequently in the Security Committee, can pass their decision on to the political club that they represent. [[10.20 hours]] That is why you will allow us or will allow us to vote on the amendments to the Security Committee, which we voted on under letter A with one vote, as we propose, or as I propose in the voting procedure. This means that no one was overvoted anywhere, it must have been the 100% consensus of all those involved in the meeting, and in the subcommittee and in the Security Committee there are representatives of all the political actors represented here in the Chamber of Deputies. That's the important thing about how it came into being. So there is nothing that we have discussed here that is controversial. There is only what the Czech Republic or the police, or the Ministry of the Interior, consider important. The matter was discussed in close cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior in these negotiations and we came to this conclusion. I thank all the members of the subcommittee, but also the Security Committee, for their cooperation, where it has proved, in turn, that we can proceed uniformly in the interests of security and citizens of the Czech Republic. And then there is Mr Benda's separate amendment, which is the amendment under letter B, which we discussed only here at second reading and was loaded at the last minute. Unfortunately, this amendment, as the Minister of the Interior mentioned, is a typical legal label. We have an open law on police, and with this sticker, we have also opened the penal code. Of course, I fully understand what Mr Benda is putting forward, and I agree internally, but we should have chosen another legislative procedure, such as the procedure under Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. I would like to sign it for my colleague, and I think that here in the Chamber of Deputies we would also find a large, overwhelming majority to be able to vote at first reading and move it to the Senate to make it legislatively clean. In this case, unfortunately, I will also have to quote the Constitutional Court's finding: "Here are the content non-references with the original draft law, in the sense of the Constitutional Court's finding on the so-called stickers. Plenum of the Constitutional Court 77 of 2006, number 37/2007.' Ladies and gentlemen, take this note that what the Minister of the Interior said that the Senate, who is so keen to talk about the purity of law and the legislative process, would, if this were true even in the case of a proposal tabled by the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Lower House, just give us back the bill as an adhesive. But if we get it back, the legislative process is over because we're here for the last time this week. So I strongly agree with what Mr Marek Benda has put forward, but given that I am primarily concerned with the Police of the Czech Republic and the enforcement of the amendment to the Law on the Police of the Czech Republic, that is, the House press 983, I have recommended to our assembly club not to vote for Mr Marek Benda's proposal because it is a pure legislative sticker. And I referred again to the 2006 Constitutional Court found, which I quoted here. So consider, colleagues... I understand, of course, that the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee will say that he is able to secure this in the Senate, but it makes me feel that if we are not able to ensure it with some of his laws and the Senate has a problem with it, then if the Senate is always acting impartially and as it should proceed. I say for myself, when I propose these things, think of the sticker which, unfortunately, was inserted there by Mr Marek Benda in the second reading, albeit with very good intentions. I support it internally, in terms of content as well, but unfortunately I cannot support it for the purity of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u5	Thank you. Mr Benda wishes to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am only briefly, after all, when I have been quoted here so many times in the opening words of the Minister and the rapporteur. The problem we are trying to solve: there has been a situation that during the course of last year, let's say due to the strict interpretation of lower-degree courts, that in cases where people are detained for some crime committed during an emergency period, there are high penalties. I think we've all taken a look at this situation. We understand, we understand even why this happened, because the condition was quite clearly given in the criminal law. If someone commits some types of crimes in an emergency, there are higher penalties. Unfortunately, we had an emergency situation in the territory of the entire Republic, more related to the pandemic of the covid, not related to what he was originally supposed to defend in the past, i.e. looting in the territory, which is somehow flooded or not allowed to go to, people can't defend their property there. It doesn't make any sense at all for stealing rolls to be a higher sentence than in a normal situation. If it's anything else that has to do with the pandemic, if someone stole vaccines or drapes or something, we'll probably understand that they're gonna get a higher sentence. This was finally interpreted by the Supreme Court that the judgments are essentially excessive, that it would be enough to apply a lower penalty rate. The problem is that most judgments are final, and if they can be changed, it's just complaints for breaking the law. The Minister of Justice is filing these complaints, but complaints for breaking the law have a bit of a special character in the Supreme Court - it means that they have to go into the courtroom. The Supreme Court is not prepared for this at all, where complaints are being dealt with for breaking the law in tens of a year, and suddenly we would be in a situation where there should be 100, maybe 500. And of course, it's important for a lot of these people to make this decision quite quickly, because it's gonna be good for them if they tell them in three years that they have a lower rate, well, they're gonna pay them some compensation for long imprisonment, but those people need to get out of that prison. On the basis of this, the President of the Supreme Court asked me if we could remove the part of the newly prepared penal code already in the new code of conduct and lay down that it is precisely in situations where the Supreme Court wishes to comply with a complaint for breach of the law given by the Minister of Justice that it can do so in private negotiations. The story's pretty simple. I think we all understand he's in a hurry. I understand, of course, the Minister's concerns, and the rapporteur's. It's a clean sticker, I'm saying it completely on the spot, and I'm saying it in the Senate. We're just in a situation where there was no other solution. I have such a proposal read into regulations that govern the criminal code, but which obviously will no longer be discussed. We're in a situation where there's been a year of covid law, and unfortunately, a lot of things haven't been done. Even the things that were in the '90s, as the rapporteur has recommended, are on the agenda today, or are no longer on the agenda, out of the program, but there are about 20 prints that have been proposed to discuss in Section 90. They wouldn't even have any major complications, yet they won't make it. So I would like to ask very much - and I am glad that the Minister of the Interior is ready and willing to support the proposal - I would like very much to ask that we support the proposal. I've really been to the Senate, we've been there with the President of the Supreme Court, I've talked to the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I've consulted other senators. I think they feel the situation there too, and it's not gonna happen. They will not be returning the draft law to the House for further consideration on the basis of this. I don't know about the other police parts, of course, if there's any complication, I can't guess. But as much as some of you may believe me here, not only will I do everything I can to prevent this senát from returning the amendment back to the Chamber of Deputies, but I say, I have a pre-negotiated that it will not do so, that one day they will close their eyes even at the cost of letting it go as a waste of 30 days, because they realize that this is a serious thing that is not going to happen until the elections and which has immediate effects on individual people who are spending time in prison today. [[10.30 hours]] So I would like very much to ask that we support this proposal, and I really guarantee the Minister that this will not be a reason for any return from the Senate. I'll do my best. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u7	Good morning, honourable Members. I thank Mr Benda. Let's keep going. If I have the right comment, the reporter is reporting for the show. No, in that case, with priority rights, the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u8	Thank you for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, I wanted to basically support what Mr Benda said here, because what happened to us during the pandemic is that the criminal laws were interpreted in such a way that a number of people were imposed penalties which took legal power, which were subsequently found to be illegal long sentences. And now we've turned to the Minister of Justice to deal with this in the form of a complaint for breaking the law. In my opinion, the Minister of Justice has done the right thing and is taking the necessary steps to bring about justice, but unfortunately, there is no procedural form to do this effectively and quickly, because there are more people involved. And they actually have one meeting room at the Supreme Court that serves this purpose. If a public hearing is to be ordered in all these cases, it will not be completely viable in time and those people will remain in prison. As the representatives of the Supreme Court have told us, this means that they will do nothing more than deal with matters relating to these complaints for breaking the law, and therefore - the complaints are justified, but if we leave the regime as they are - we will delay justice for all those who have a call. Those time limits will be extended and all appeals to the Supreme Court will be held to deal with complaints for violations of the law. So I really was very much on the line here to resolve this situation, which is extraordinary as a result of the pandemic and as a result of the change that occurred in the case-law, as well as the law that we passed here - because it was one of the provisions of the pandemic law that we were able to resolve this situation there - and, on the other hand, of course, the constitutional value of the purity of the legislative process, which we all certainly want to protect here. I have decided that in this particular case there is simply a need to remedy this great injustice that has happened, and I believe that in the Senate and, where appropriate, when reviewing this emergency situation, this will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u9	I thank my colleague Michálek. Now I have a factual remark from Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u10	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am only for my colleagues and colleagues at the club. I confess that I overlooked this question when we were discussing bills, third reading at the parliamentary club. It's my fault, I admit it. I join those who are here in order to approve this unfortunately - and I am glad that Mr Benda has openly admitted it to you - a clean sticker, a sticker or an amendment in an emergency condition, because otherwise there is really a threat of overloading the Supreme Court. This is a pure form of discussion, nothing on the rights of those who will be discussed will be reduced, on the contrary, some will not be in prison for so long. And you know that we have overcrowded prisons, it costs us too much as taxpayers, so even fiscal justice will be fulfilled. We're dealing with something here at the last minute that we should have handled differently, like the '90s. I understand absolutely the Minister of the Interior, but I would urge the Minister of Justice to come out, who is filing a number of complaints for violations of the law, which the Supreme Court is not enough to discuss and will not be enough to discuss, and thus the summons, which should be discussed as another extraordinary remedy, will be on the table and justice will really not be served. [[toss]] So if you could just close both eyes a little bit, say, it's an extraordinary sticker generated by what we've all been through, an emergency situation, I'd be swimming for it. Once again, I apologize for not drawing attention to this in time at our parliamentary club, and I also thank you for your indulgence, because I seem to have exceeded the two-minute period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u11	Thank you. I was about to warn you, Madame, but it was within limits. I have no further application for a debate... The rapporteur is therefore reporting, still in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u12	Thank you. I'll be very short. Once again, I agree with the content, but since I am both a member or Vice-President of the Security Committee and a member of the constitutionally-legal committee, together with Mr Benda, for the purity of the legislative process that we talk about so often, and indeed the Senate as such, which is acting as the guarantor, I simply had to say that it is a pure label which is contrary to what we have in the Constitutional Court. And the fact that we are able to make an exception for him is beautiful, but the purity of the legislative process here in the Chamber of Deputies should apply to us as legislators and law makers and should be the first place for us that we should try to keep the purity of the legislative process from us, and not that we already know in advance that we approve the label to which the reference is. So, in terms of content, yes. If, almost two months ago, when the sticker was introduced into the law, we would have followed § 90 para. 2, and I think we'd find broad support here for almost all members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so we've been through this a long time. And I'm asking why we didn't go this way, why unfortunately did we find the law on the Police of the Czech Republic? We could find any law - the archival law, the Health Services Act. It's just completely out of control! Consider that we are now discussing the law on the Police of the Czech Republic and 90 or 95 percent of the time we are discussing the sticker, not the content of the Police of the Czech Republic and the security forces covered by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u13	Thank you. I repeat, I have no application for a debate, but a colleague named Marek Benda is still reporting. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to ask the House for peace because there's a lot of noise here. I understand that it bothers some that we are in a certain legislative emergency, but please transfer those debates that are not related to the Police Act or to a specific amendment into the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u14	Thank you. After all, I will respond briefly to the rapporteur. She's got a whole stick theory that's at least questionable. To be honest, the press we have in front of us is some press that is excluded from a completely different government proposal for another 30 points that are added there and which, as if related to the police, and if the Senate wants to do it on purpose, he will say, these are all things that did not go through the same process. I believe he's not really gonna do it on purpose, and let's not pretend, yes, it's not for social services or health services. In my opinion, matters of justice are related to the Police of the Czech Republic. Criminal prosecution is frankly initiated by the Police of the Czech Republic, decided by law enforcement authorities, so let us not pretend that this is something completely different from the case. And I really think that we can explain in the Senate, and I will do everything to make sure that this is a matter that is related to justice, is important and will help specific people who, in my opinion, are more unjustly spending time in prison today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u15	Thank you, Mr. Benda. One more point in fact, Vlastimil Válek. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to downplay the debate, but I think the sticker theory is very clear and clear. Whoever agrees doesn't think that's a label. Whoever doesn't agree with it thinks that's a label. And then the situation changes all the time. I know that. I've learned here that the sticker is what I don't want to vote for, and that's why I'm going to call it a sticker to sort of justify why I don't want to vote for it because some of the laws here had stickers across the political parties. All I can say about stickers is that I admire lawyers, that they even know what the law says.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u17	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and I will not comment. Jakub Michálek's colleague still wants to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u18	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to add that now that we know that these people are actually sitting there illegally today and that complaints are being filed or are already being filed for breaking the law, it is likely that the Supreme Court will comply with them, as it has done to some, and what happens is that those people who are sitting there illegally will probably turn to the state and demand damages, the damage that has been caused to them by the illegal execution of the sentence. And, of course, interference with personal freedom is one of the biggest interventions that a person can be exposed to from the state, and we will have to pay unnecessary compensation for these people. So it's going to cost us, and the taxpayers, just more money, instead of being, like, the current case-law, so we can release them on time. So if, on the one hand, the illegal imprisonment of someone and, on the other hand, the purity of the legislative process stands, I think, with some suffering, that it is more logical to give priority to the material values of the rule of law when there is a conflict between materiality and form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u19	Thank you and I repeat that this was the last one entered into the debate from the point of view. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. Let's keep going, then. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, to present individual amendments to the proposals, and to express the opinion of the committee before the vote. I'll ask the Minister for the same thing. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The voting procedure will basically be very simple. Voting on regulated legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 90 para. I have no record of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, so there will be no vote. The first vote will therefore be the amendments under letter A. These are amendments to the Security Committee, which were adopted at our 56th meeting in June of this year. The amendment will follow, Mr Benda's much discussed amendment. And the third vote is the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u21	Thank you. Does anyone have a change of procedure? It's not like that. I'm doing it because I asked my colleagues to discuss it in the lobby, not that I'm quite successful, but I'd rather call the others to a vote. And I'm going to unsubscribe you, and I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. First, we will vote on the approval of the procedure proposed by the rapporteur, as contained in print 983/4. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of approving the procedure? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 64, 147 for 145, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can therefore consider the first amendment. I will ask the heads of the government party clubs to release the Minister, who will comment on individual proposals. [[Several of the Presidents are speaking to Minister Hakma.]] First draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u22	So the first motion for a vote, given that there are no legislative technical amendments, the first vote is the amendment under letter A, the amendment to the Security Committee. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u23	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 65 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 65, present 157, for 128, against no one. The motion was accepted. Second draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u24	The second vote is now Mr Marek Benda's proposal discussed. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u25	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 66 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 66, out of 158 of 116 in favour, against 2. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted the amendments, has it not, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u26	Yes, Mr President. We can proceed to the vote of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-004-023.u27	Thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 17/2012 Coll., on the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's press 983, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 67 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 67, 158 for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and finish with point 23. According to the approved agenda, I will ask the Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister Jan Hamáček to stay at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Jan Kubík, to take up the position of Mr Kytýr, instead of his colleague, at the rapporteur's table, and we will discuss
