ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-003-275.u1	275. Members' proposal of Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Mašek, Radek Koten and Jan Birk to issue a law amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended / House print 908/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that the procedure is designed in accordance with § 90 para. 2, this means approving already in the first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 908/1. Before I ask Zdeněk Ondráček, one of the plaintiffs of the motion, I will ask colleague Ondřej Profant to take the floor at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for this press. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now present the proposal as the representatives of the appellants. And I will give him my word as soon as the situation in the House is down. Calm down, my colleague! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-003-275.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a group of petitioners, I would like to present you with the material, House Press No. 908, an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which is essentially a parliamentary response to House Press No. 862, submitted by the Government of the Czech Republic, to which it wanted to amend this law on 11 May 2020, and presented it in a state of legislative emergency. For some reason, which took place here in the discussion, this material was eventually downloaded and it was not discussed at all. With colleagues from the Security Committee who are signed under this proposal, which is the President and Vice-Presidents - although the President told me that he eventually called off his signature to wrap it up in a comprehensive reply - we discussed with the Ministry of Regional Development, and we also discussed with the Government how to secure supplies to the Administration of State Material Reserves even if we did not have an emergency situation here. You know that this is basically one of the reasons why we are constantly prolonging the emergency situation, because we also refer to this issue where the Administration of State Material Reserves after the end of the emergency situation is not able to buy or would have to switch to the standard regime in the case of purchases, i.e. purchase under the Public Procurement Act. So, on the basis of this, after the end of the so-called first wave of covid, my colleagues and I have already tabled this proposal on 25 June, House Press 908, where basically, when I say in a nutshell, we have given the opportunity for the Administration of State Material Reserves to buy outside the Public Procurement Act six months after the end of the emergency situation, in order to fill the warehouses of the State Material Reserves Administration for a possible second wave. We wanted to discuss this in June 2020. I have come before you several times and asked you to include this point before the government, if you will, on parliamentary holidays. Unfortunately it didn't happen, we all lived in a certain euphoria, some ran around the squares, built tables on the Charles Bridge and celebrated how beautifully we all managed the pandemic together, the first round. Then autumn came and we were very surprised that there was a second wave. The administration of state material reserves was in many warehouses in a constant state as in January or February 2020, i.e. empty shelves crouched there, and the government subsequently declared an emergency situation that lasts to this day. I referred to this as one of the reasons why we, as KSČM, have no choice but to support the government's request to extend the emergency situation, because it was one of the points that was crucial to us, and I, as a member of the Central Crisis Staff, have information on how and what material the Administration of state material reserves buys and needs to buy to cope with the second wave. Of course, we can criticize, for example, the purchase of syringes with needles, which we are talking about now, which have been transported from China and appear inappropriate for vaccination, and we may need to buy new syringes and needles from elsewhere. But that's different. We are talking about whether we should make it possible even if we decided to put an end to the emergency situation so that the Administration of State Material Reserves can continue to function for a certain period of time and buy in, say, a scheme other than the standard regime, that is, the Public Procurement Act. Of course, I fully respect the right of control that should be carried out, so that everything takes place, of course, with as much transparency as possible, so that we cannot say here that there is, say, corruption or any other act or economical treatment of state resources. These controls can be carried out by both the Supreme Audit Office and, of course, the Ministry of Local Development. The government, after presenting this material - and I must thank Minister Klára Dostálová and her workers for working with us on the material, although we have said a lot about it, and in many ways we have come across each other, when the government subsequently issued an opinion at its meeting on 27 July as House Press 908/1, which is neutral for this proposal, and, of course, expresses some of the things that we have already discussed with the Government when drafting this proposal. Of course, the government says that these procedures would also be possible under the existing law. And here we are referring to the fact that the Administration of State Material Reserves says that such courage for exceptions that they do not explicitly see there does not, the Ministry says that it would be relatively possible. We'll see. [[10.10 hours]] Of course, it is up to us, and I believe that most of you, fellow Members, want to come to the conclusion that we will gradually start returning the Republic to normal, that we will be able to cancel the emergency situation even in some near time horizon. And this is one of the things that we can contribute to this, because even after the emergency situation is over, the Administration of State Material Reserves could still buy outside the framework of Act 134 on Public Procurement for a certain period of time. So I hereby ask you for your support at first reading to bring this law or this amendment into life as quickly as possible. I think that is our common goal for all of us sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies who are communicating with our voters, who are, say, slightly frustrated by the constant extension of the emergency situation. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-003-275.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, for his proposal, for putting the press 908, and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Ondřej Profant, to present his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-003-275.u4	Good morning, I think the petitioner has already introduced the House press to you 908. This press was submitted on 23 June 2020, so more than half a year ago, the Government's position is neutral, and what I would like to point out is that I present it in the 90s, in Section 90 (2) of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., so we'll decide on it here today if it's not checked. Of course, the Merit of the press is reasonable. The fact that we have an unprecedented crisis here, that public authorities need to buy, that's obvious. The fact that the situation can sometimes be very difficult is also clear. I am just not entirely sure of the need for this press, because I think that the exceptions in the Public Procurement Act are already, after all, the conclusion of the position of compatibility of the Parliamentary Institute is: We do not consider the proposed legislation to be entirely compatible with EU law. I wouldn't judge it so harshly, I think we have the right to exceptions in the Public Procurement Act, but I think the exceptions are already there. We as pirát certainly do not want to prevent shopping, so we will support the press, however I say, I think it is more of a duplication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-003-275.u5	Thank you for the report, I am opening up a general debate and reminding you before the debate that, according to Section 90, paragraph 3, this press cannot be discussed at first reading in accordance with Section 90, paragraph 2, if 50 Members object to it or at least two Members' clubs. I have no such thing here, so if I do not receive anything like this in the debate or until the end of the debate, we will proceed in this way. According to Section 90 (5) we would continue to approve this press in the first reading. I don't have anyone registered for the debate, and I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. Do I ask the final words? No one checks in, so we will proceed according to Section 90, paragraph 5, and I will engage first to summon colleagues from the lobby. We will decide in the vote number 254 that: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on Houses of the Press 908 so that it can be agreed with at first reading. I've started voting number 254 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 254. 90 Members present, for 62, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. So we will continue, so I will open the debate that is before us before we continue to pass the law. It is a detailed debate in which we can only propose a change in the deadline of effectiveness, or further steps. If no one signs up for this debate, I will also conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words in that case. It's not like that. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Zdeněk Ondráček, Jiří Mašek, Radek Koten and Jan Birk to issue a law amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on public procurement, as amended, according to the House's press 908." I've started voting number 255 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 255. Of the 90 present 62 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. This is the end of the legislative procedure, thank you to the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur and I conclude with paragraph 275. We will continue with the point
