ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u1	4. Proposal for a law on the promotion of gardening activities (garden law) /house print 634/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 634/9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. [[17.30 hours]] I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us. I prosit that Mr Adam Kalous speak for the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. I thank you, and Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, as the promoter of the law of gardening, I have been following this law from the very beginning and with that time it seems to be growing. This shows not only the attention of the media but also, for example, the discussion of the law at the plenary of our esteemed fellow senators, when, while the fundamental legislation of the Ministry of Justice prior to it was discussed within 30 minutes, the law of gardeners was discussed in an excited debate for several hours until late night hours. What's the conclusion? Senators suggest releasing some provisions, such as a passage on the cultural values of gardening activity. The Senate also wants to remove the rule that a natural person can rent a plot to a gardening club for at least two years. If the landlord is a municipality or a state, according to the House's proposal, the landlord can be negotiated for at least 10 years. Even this is what the Senate suggested to release. He also wants to launch a section in which it says that no consideration will be given to the agreements that depart from the law of gardening to the detriment of the association. The Senate also proposes to delete a sentence which states that the municipality and the State Land Office take into account the public utility of gardening activities in the negotiation of land or rent. The most common argument of those who oppose his acceptance is that he claims to be redundant as to why to make a law for an area that does not need him. They say it's another useless legislation. Let me briefly reject these claims with two basic arguments. The gardening law was actually created from the bottom. For several years more than 300,000 gardeners have been calling for him. The petition for the adoption of this law, supported by more than 24,000 petents, is also evidence. These people are concerned about the fate of their activities and their gardens as such. This law gives not only clear rules but also protection. If we often talk about the need to implement the so-called blue-green policy in this hall, especially in cities, then gardens have a crucial role to play now, aside from all the other functions it performs. This brings me to the second important factor, namely that gardening law does not only fall on gardeners, but on a much wider group of inhabitants who are not aware of the importance of these green areas in cities, until they begin to liquidate, disrupt and destroy. Colleagues, I do not think it is necessary to repeat many that have previously fallen in defence of the content and meaning of the present law. Finally, I would like to thank all those who participated in the preparation of the gardening law, all those who raised their hand for him in the third reading of this law. They were representatives of seven political clubs out of nine, so I believe that it will also have support in this vote today. I would like to thank you for supporting the original parliamentary version as he went to the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u3	I also thank you and ask that Senator Zdeněk Nytra take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize to the colleague of the Senator Hrab, who was supposed to lecture this back here, but unfortunately he couldn't make it. Yes, there was quite a long discussion in the Senate. Finally, the first vote for approval was in your approved version. For there were 29 senators, the rejection was 30, so amendments were made. As part of the defence of this bill, it was said that gardeners represent tradition, massity, utility, general welfare. Sure, I can only agree with that. On the other hand, there is a lot of other federal activity that can be defined exactly the same way. It was here or is in support of this law that gardeners need their law, they need protection and a clear definition of public interest. Here it may be important to ask yourself how gardeners could have worked until now if they didn't have this protection. Of course, gardening as such is an activity that is also beneficial for the environment. But statistics show that 70 percent of gardeners work at their homes, 12 percent at their cottages and 11 percent at garden colonies. Gardeners at home and the cottage don't touch this law at all, they don't solve it at all. It is strange that not only the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and the neutral position was taken by the environment, the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Ministry for Local Development. For - for the record - the Ministry of Agriculture. The association of cities and municipalities mainly contradicted two points, namely the length of the snail, i.e. the length of the snail for municipalities and the state for 10 years at least, and then it was an advantage in price. On these two arguments, I would stop because these two arguments may even be against gardening colonies, and so have some mayors who are also senators. We need to realise that the association, as the law is written, is entitled to pilgrimage the land to another person without the consent of the original owner, regardless of whether the overachieved person or entity is going to do business, to pursue an activity whether profitable or non-profit-making on the land. For example, it may be the debtor of the village, when the gardening union gets through and ploughs the land. Many mayors also pointed out that the leased land activity was an assessment of the land and, in essence, as the original owner, should comment on this. Some garden colonies serve for accommodation and this is also not much for the benefit of the municipalities. There was mention of a minimum period of 10 years of scum on the part of the state or municipalities, but the notice period is six months. So that doesn't make any sense to me, not just to me, but to our legislation. We've really had a very honest discussion about this. He did not prevail either to accept the proposal or to reject it as unnecessary. Yes, as the honourable Member mentioned, the proposals were made there. So we were really trying in the Senate to eliminate only the biggest mistakes that individual ministries warned about, and especially the Union of Cities and Municipalities. So I would like to conclude by asking you to approve our Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u5	Thank you. I will ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Monika Oborná, or the rapporteur of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, Mr Jiří Dolejš, wants to comment on the Senate resolution? This is not the case, so I am opening up a debate in which I have four Members so far signed up. Mr. Jan Pošvář will perform first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate's amendment is quite an interesting paradox. Its adoption will actually make all the words, claims about the unnecessaryness of this law true. I hope it doesn't come to that. During the discussion of the law of gardening in the Senate, it was repeatedly said, as I have already said, that the law of gardening is useless. I dare say I'm glad this criticism has been heard. When the garden law was discussed and you stepped out of your social bubble, you might have noticed that it was not an isolated opinion and certainly played its part in the Senate to make that view heard. Why it sounds, we can answer that, too. First of all, it must be acknowledged that it does not sound quite clear what this law is about and why it is so. Nor does it contribute to the fact that many advocates often focus on various popular statements, which are not really to the point. Garden law has two clear objectives: anchor gardening and gardening colonies in legislation and protect gardeners from developers. This is the fourth attempt, which is why this law focuses only on the essentials. The Senate, however, proposes to remove from the law the provisions relating to utilitarian contracts. This practically eliminates the fulfillment of the second objective, which is unacceptable. It was also said during the Senate hearing that gardens should be protected, but not in their own law. We would also like to introduce an amendment to existing laws instead of gardening law, but with the same effect. However, the will to do so was not at all in this House or on the part of the government. The original proposal was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and it was already a separate law. Nor did other ministries, which then participated in the amendments, come up with any other approach other than this separate law. The draft law, as we have jointly prepared and approved it in the House, is therefore a compromise. It will not solve all the problems that the gardener has to worry about, but I believe it is an important first kick and the law will continue to evolve and expand. I thank all those who reject the amendment from the Senate and decide to vote it over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u7	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec will be next, Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to comment on this return to the bill, although I have a bit of a problem saying that this is the law, because I think that this special law does not really belong in our legislation. This is where it's been, I've been listening to it, so what's the deal with the gardeners on municipal or state property? So they can keep the garden as long as possible and pay as little as possible. That's reality. Otherwise, the law of gardeners doesn't say anything about their own activities. I remember such attempts have already been made here in the House. At the time we successfully discouraged them, but here I see that there is a will and the idea that 24,000 petents in the area would say municipal or state gardening is the right reason to make a special law. Well, I warn you about that. Plus, if you look at the percentage of people who do gardening, if you divide it by who has it on their own, who has it on the community, how many areas do urban parks and forests make up, you'll find that it's really a minority problem. There really are two points, and it was also here in the debate, so that no one would take away their gardens and ask them to make an outrageous sum for rent. But this is all a matter of the communal sphere. In the case of state land, a state agency is supposed to represent the state in property matters, it is better not to communicate with them, because it is there for a long time and you never know. I would agree with that state, but the gardens are not threatened by any developers, no one is threatening them in those cities. You can't be serious about this. When I look at what group is dedicated to the gardens, yes, you're right, if I take the percentage of 10 to 11 percent that have the communal gardens, they're gardens that go from generation to generation or they so-called sell. You'd be quite surprised what prices they sell at. That's what you need to know. I understand that today's younger generation wants to rest and maybe has an interest in gardening, but I think this law even goes against the sense that the plaintiffs have declared. If you order the towns the length of the scum, what happens? There won't be any new gardening colonies, nothing will happen. Why block land by order of the state? In a number of cases, the gardeners today are even in locations designed to build housing. If the transfer of the garden colony isn't resolved, it's not possible to sell the land to build a family home. After all, every mayor knows that he won't risk a riot in the village just because they haven't found a solution to the gardeners. I have to say, I'm really sorry there's a lot of myths about this. If you ask any of us what's bothering him from the point of view of our system of justice or legislation, everyone will tell you that our legal system is rampant, unsystemic, complicated, and that always wins those who have more money for a better lawyer who can navigate better than the state or public administration. I think we all want our legal order to be clear, readable, fair and swift. We're still inventing more and more laws and the reasons why there's a law of gardening, there's really only two, and I don't think that's enough. It's not enough, and I want to remind you that I like gardeners. I'm glad they're cultivating the soil, they've got the trees, they've got the plants, what they call it. It's good, it's necessary for our lives, but on the other hand, please, let's not make a law for it. I think the law is a weed in our legal order, that's how I see it. Again, I like gardeners. I'm a gardener myself, but on my own. It's just reality. Just 'cause I'm on my own doesn't mean I don't like the guys in town. On the contrary, I'm glad they're doing it. So let's not say cities can't control it. I think that every four years there are elections in the city like every ammunition, and when you say that gardeners are such a force in that city, if the city just treats them unfairly, then surely in those next municipal elections, they'll handle the Garniture that goes against them. But it happens very little, and I even warn my colleagues not to raise the price of scents or rents unnecessarily, because this activity is truly God-loving and let us be glad that someone is taking care of the land. I have one more thing to say: let's not pretend it's the only greenery in the cities. It's not true. I've already talked about private gardens, but there are also parks in those cities that the city cares about. Many cities have forests, which means they have a lot of greenery and they take care of it. So it's not just a small group of people that's the problem. It bothers me that it focuses on a narrow group of people and that, more or less, as a result, it can turn against them. The guaranteed price may mean that the price that has been so far will change into guaranteed and will be significantly higher. The fact that it's a ten-year scent means there's gonna be a shortage of gardens in that town. That's the whole reality. So I understand the senators, they didn't want to be cruel to those gardeners who think that without that law gardeners will go and they will go as gardeners, but on the other hand, I am in favour of rejecting both variants because I consider this law completely unnecessary and harmful to gardeners as a result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u9	Thank you. Mr Antonín Staněk will also appear, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, members of the government, I am very glad that the law of gardening after a long time and after it has basically ended up in the upsurge in the last parliamentary term, it seems that it could actually succeed in this period. It is a law that, even here, has actually provoked a number of emotional performances of colleagues, and it was also in the Senate - some of the senators called the law a piece of paper, others called it a load of proclamation and so on. It is evident that the law of gardeners as such has created really interesting emotions in us legislators. I think that the law that came into the legislative process and today we are to decide its next destiny is a law that belongs to the category that actually originated from the bottom, created from the citizens themselves, originated from gardeners, created from those who feel the need for certain protection but also feels the need for a certain recognition of their gardening activities. And I am very sorry that I will have a comparison that may not suit someone completely, but we also have a law on hunting in the legislative process, and I have already encountered certain, say, contemptuous views of the hunting associations, the thinking associations and so on, some even compared them to the remains of the previous regime and so on. However, it is nothing like that, and gardeners rightly look to the Chamber of Deputies, to the Parliament of the Czech Republic with the desire that their long-term traditional activities have some respect and recognition. The cultural values of gardening could be talked about for quite a long time, but that is not my aim and purpose. However, I don't think anyone can question that gardening has, apart from the growths that have been mentioned here, a very significant impact on strengthening the health of each individual citizen, because the movement in the fresh air associated with pleasant work, although I must admit that collecting slugs is not exactly what would have to be completely enriched, however, it is an activity that often makes us lazy townspeople think about what we should do with our health, so that, when we eat that little piece of garden, we don't get all puffed up and just before the heart attack. Of course, this also has to do with the cultivation of nature, youth education and, last but not least, the fact that there are many old cultivars in the gardens, especially in the fields of apple trees, pears and other crops, trees, shrubs that have known our great-grandmothers and grandmothers, and we do not see them very often on modern premises nowadays. The social importance of gardening is also linked to the fact that the Czech Association of Gardeners brings together between one and one and a half million inhabitants, so it is not really a meaningless group of citizens. I do not think it is necessary to refer directly to the number of those who have signed the relevant petition, because let us say openly, not everyone is willing to sign the petitions and not every petition simply wants to sign. However, 23,000 citizens, or plus or minus, so as not to be taken at my word, who have signed a petition to the Senate just to support the law of gardening, are also not a meaningless number of people. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't agree with the opinions that my previous speaker has just made. As mayor of the city of Olomouc, I have encountered a situation that we have come into without our own fault as city leaders, when a large gardening colony on the banks of the Moravia River had to retreat from the flood control measures. I witnessed really unpleasant situations and unpleasant conversations with gardeners who had de facto not quite valuable land in that piece of land for a long time, created their facilities there, created their space there and that piece of land that would otherwise have become an area covered by various swamps, weeds and the like, so this piece of land was very valuable to them and had a really very personal relationship to it. But, as has been said here, the city leaders are to resolve this situation in some way, and it is up to them and have the ability to resolve these situations. Even in Olomouc, it succeeded with some difficulty. And as far as the planning of garden colonies is concerned, it is up to the cities to identify areas where such land can be rented, where such land can be ploughed and gardened. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, last comment. Please accept the bill as it was tabled here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's an MP's bill, because what's legally left after the Senate's intervention is basically that worthless piece of paper. It is deboned for the necessary few words, so that it does not lose face, but the efforts of all those who have implemented the gardening law through the legislative process until now would turn to nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say for the social democracy that has supported this proposal here in the Chamber of Deputies since the beginning, and I am proud to have been one of the co-president, that we will support the parliamentary proposal, and I believe that most of you will. Thank you and have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u11	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec will speak with a factual remark, then with priority rights the President of the club KSČM Kováčik. Please. [[- May I?]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say one thing in response to my honored colleague Staněk. I agree with him what he said about the gardens and the activities, and I totally agree with him. But do we really want to declare this in the legal order of the Czech Republic in this way? I'm gonna say this out loud. After all, the relationship between the landlord and the tenant or the one who snorts or who gives the scum is already regulated by laws. I think we all want a state of law here, and if we're gonna be a state of law and we're gonna do an inconspicuous legal system, what's gonna happen? Well, they're gonna break the legal system, whether they're conscious or unconscious because they don't know it. I just take it systemically. I have nothing against gardeners, on the contrary, I support this activity, but it is against me to put this in the legal order of the Czech Republic in this form, which actually solves only two basic problems that can be solved in a completely different way. [[18.00 hours]] Please don't come here when we say we need to break the laws, and they're gonna tell the same people who designed them. And I don't mean it badly, so let's not say it. Then let's say that our legal order is unclear, indistinct, hard to enforce, because we have a law on zoos, which I also think is useless, we're going to have a law on gardening, because I know there's a power to approve, and of course I agree with the Senate's deformity. That's why I'm saying it's better to be perfectly clear that whoever doesn't want him doesn't vote for it at all. And whoever wants him to vote in favour of the House version, because at least they're dealing with the two points, and I think they're doing them wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u13	Thank you. Another factual point. Mr Antonín Staněk will respond before he reaches the priority right of Mr Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I just want to return the pen I took from this table. [[He's handing the pen to Mr Adamc.]] Great, so besides returning the pen, she also found her owner. Mr colleague, by your means, Mr President, I think we are fully in agreement. However, the reality is that we have a law for almost every little thing in this country. I understand that it would be best to reduce some of these laws, but if the situation has not occurred, the law has its meaning, I feel that way, and it can be expected that it can be amended in the future not only to solve two things, but also to resolve other things. The important thing is that the law will be here and it will be possible to continue working with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u15	Thank you, and now Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given voice indisposition, only a brief speech. You know, I've been working very actively on this subject for 20 years and 20 years are falling one and the same arguments both on the part of the dispute and on the part of the dispute, and it's still as if indecisive, or just before the goal is reached, there will be elections, some obstruction from any level or level of public power, which will prevent that last click. I am convinced that it is not confusing or useless, because if even the Němec have it in their legal order, and I admit that as one of the long-time workers and collaborators on this topic I know that the German law of gardening has been taken on the basis of the proposal, so I think that in a similar cultural environment it is appropriate for us. I don't think he's supposed to be the neutered torso that came from the Senate, not just for the things we're talking about, but also because the subject, the proposal, the modification that came to the Senate from the House, has a very symbolic meaning. Gardening is experiencing a boom, especially in cities, and let us be glad that young people, young families are putting themselves in the so-called community gardening that the magic of clean, home-grown plants is reappearing with pride in their work and results. And I see that symbolic significance not only for gardeners, but as chairman of the subcommittee on hunting, fishing, beekeeping, gardening and breeding, I see it also for hunters, even for beekeepers, as well as for breeders, as well as for gardeners, simply for all types of this activity, which, in any case, is closer or less closely linked to nature and its sensitive cultiating human activities in the pet ring very useful. That's what we've been talking about many times. And that all those who have the heart close to us are looking at us, whoever it is, hunters, beekeepers and gardeners, that this is an assessment of the difference between recognition of this activity as noble, generally beneficial, good activities, especially in the time of coronavirus. We gardeners - I have a conflict of interest, I am a member of the Association of Gardeners - we have had many actually the only such activity that has managed to fulfill those terrible weeks and months of lockdown in a meaningful way at least this way, that there is therefore observed the difference between recognition, universal understanding, taking note in this society that it is not some relic of the past, or even of the past, and that it all has a future, and of contempt. Let us acknowledge and vote in favour of the House version. Thank you for your understanding and listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u17	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u18	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am sorry, but I have to. You know, when my honored colleague Kováčik here says that the Němec have a gardening law - I don't know what their legal system is, I didn't examine it. If we're using these arguments here, it would be good if we knew what the German law was about. You know, we didn't give a damn about the bikers, the meter and half away, and we argued abroad that they had it there. But they still have a statement that the cyclist must then always move the car if he wants to pass it. And we kind of forgot to put that bill in. So I beg you, let's not use the argument here that the Němec have it, too. I really don't know the German rule of law in detail. I'm just saying, it's not that anyone doesn't respect the gardeners. Please, I understand. They're voters. It's just tuning emotions into how the law of gardening is needed. I don't think so. I think recognition is supposed to come from a completely different way, in a different way. The fact that we support gardeners, I've been doing it for 23 years since I've been mayor of the city's county size, and I never thought of restricting or eliminating this activity in any way. Never, because I consider it beneficial. That's what you have to say. So I have to respond to that. Let's really put our feelings aside, let's take it cold, pragmatically. We're politicians here. We should deal with the legal order. I understand that we've had enough of this since it's been happening, but I don't see why we're gonna do it anymore, or don't be mad at me, I want to point it out, because one day we're gonna go back to it anyway. Plus, this bill really solves what the community sector is supposed to be dealing with for the most part. I mean, minimum rent for gardeners is logical. If we want them to do that, we're not gonna give them exorbitant rents. [[Time, please.]] The scent for 10 years is problematic. What happens in those 10 years, no one knows. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I'm sorry. That was the case from Olomouc, the flood control. That's why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Senator will respond, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I use this right to speak before, let's say, the final word. I want to read to you paragraph 3 of Section 6 of the original proposal: "The association can only be leased for a fixed period of at least 10 years if the plotter is a municipality or a state." Before you press the right button, try to think about whether - before the law comes into force - some municipalities will not react so that they will not cancel the gardening colonies, because we are here imposing an obligation on the community to sail it for at least 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u21	The rapporteur will respond, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u22	I'm just a quick response to the senator. Those ten years, that's the case with the newly concluded contracts, that is, with the current colonies and the current established relationships, that's not what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u23	In the debate, Mr Petr Bendl, who has so far been last registered, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u24	Thank you for the floor. I think that the significance of the law already corresponds to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture knew that it would be discussed this afternoon, and for work reasons he apologized. I think that we need much more, for example, the quoted hunting law, billions of damage. We, as opposition, have proposed several times that this law be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, the government's majority have always swept it away. Let's hope we see it at least at this meeting. I feel the back of the Senate as follows: most senators appreciate the social benefits of gardeners, and so they sent us the law in a form that basically declares: Yes, gardening is a socially beneficial matter, but they do not want to enter into the powers of the authorities in the management of their own property. What the parliamentary version says, "We, Members, will determine by law for how long and how you can dispose of the property." It is a small matter, however, I am deeply convinced that if the municipality knows that it can rent only for 10 years, then no bag with the support of gardening will break. I don't see mayors as fools and prosecutors as infirm socialists who wouldn't see the need for gardening associations to function or anything like that. As former mayor of Kladno, I had the honour of dealing with a number of gardening associations. Some of these garden colonies were created in an extravilion, and they were basically without problems, and some were created many years ago in an intravilion of the village, even in the center of the city, where gradually people built their gardens on a higher and higher level, until chalets and cottages became basically family houses. And the gardeners themselves have come up with the idea that they would like this area to become an area with built-up communications, with the collection of household waste, with the stretching of water, the sewerage and so on and so on, which you would basically disable by approving this parliamentary proposal. You said 10 years and that's it. For at least 10 years there can become nothing but a garden colony, and I dare say that mayors and councils know better than we Members how the town or village is to be loaded with a garden colony and that it is purely a communal topic, and therefore I understand and I want to thank the senators for returning this bill to us. Mr. Senator doesn't see me right now, but I think it's just that we want to show that we support you. I also agree with the version that we don't have to have a law on everything. I think who's ever done anything in their life, and actively, so if he's been swearing at anything, he's gonna blow the red tape we have in this country. And once we have one law, you've already talked about it here, the next time we'd expand it, and we'd make some decrees to do it, and we'd adopt some officials who will check the decrees, if anybody's doing some dirty business there, and I just think it's supposed to stay at community level, that it's purely communal level. And we, too, must point out, have been very supportive of gardening activities in the past, supported exhibitions, but it wasn't just them, it was breeders, as was said here. I don't think beekeepers want to have their own law. All we have to do is have enough social support for the authorities and the state, which is what's happening, and it's okay, but we don't really have to have a law on everything, which I don't think in this country citizens deserve to be destroyed by this. I am convinced that we do not know better than mayors of municipalities and councils, how to deal with future gardening settlements or how to agree with existing ones. I am prepared to support a Senate proposal that does not enter the competence of cities and municipalities while declaring the social benefits of gardening. This is an acceptable compromise for me, as for a man who has ever come into contact with it. And I think... yeah, one more comment about what was said here. Ivan Adamec is absolutely right because we don't know what's gonna happen in 10 years. What Staněk said here - well, there was a thousand-year-old water, we all remember what it did not only in Moravia, but also in Bohemia, and only in Central Bohemia we evacuated 24,000 people and we had problems not so much with the colonies of gardeners, but it is similar because there are maybe hundreds of thousands of chats and cottages in Central Bohemia, so it was huge problems. By the way, the same thing is happening. The chat rooms and settlements are gradually becoming houses for permanent housing, except people don't log in. But that's probably the problem here for Minister Dostálová and the Ministry of Regional Development, because this is happening all the time. That the big water came, and at that moment - and I was an active participant - it was found that instead of cops and the space where, in the past, ages ago, the water regularly spilled, we had to build family houses through territorial plans, and not just family houses, in this case even gardens and the like, maybe nobody had to assume it. We all knew that there were no updated flood plans, but it could happen, and it could happen for another reason, for another disaster, no one would want to summon her, but it could just happen. It's not predictable, and I think we're gonna get them into situations, those gardening colonies that are gonna be unsolvable. In fact, in the finals, we will not be dealing with this here, Members of Parliament, like the wise people now, who will order how to deal with their property and for how long they have something to rent, but the councils and mayors will be dealing with how to help them. Let us leave it to them and rather, if you are willing and you realize that gardeners are important, then rather support the Senate proposal than the MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u25	Thank you. This was the last performance. Mr Adamec is reporting for the debate, I presume. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u26	I'm reporting with a normal speech, Mr President. [[- Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to sum up some of the things that have been said here. I would like to reassure all those who support gardeners and are gardeners themselves that there will be no cancellations in our city, even after the possible approval of the bill. What I'm no longer able to say is whether or not new contracts will be signed. It's just a reality that I don't think is recording to gardeners the way it's set up. The word community gardening came down here. Okay, it's a modern trend, I'm up for it, but this isn't gonna solve it. In the same way, the municipality will have to deal with how to make conditions for such a way of other management on its land. That's what you have to say that doesn't even matter. It bothers me about the things I've been talking about. It also bothers me that we here think we're really gonna solve this for the mayors, the councils, the municipal councils or the city councils. That really bothers me, and that's all the law is about. So please, either we're doing something for a gardener in the sense that we appreciate their expertise, and the law will be professional in this field, or let's not make laws like that that that solves things that every mayor solves in the blink of an eye to the satisfaction of everyone involved. It really doesn't solve anything. It complicates things. I know you're determined, I'm not going to convince anyone, but believe me, even though I support this activity, which way I go, as they say I support gardening activities, that I support if they come, community gardening, because I think it's a modern trend, but don't ask me to vote in favour of this, in my opinion, of a non-speaking proposal for a law on gardeners. It's really no use, it's just a declaration, it's gonna cause complications. And I've already said it here: as a result, it will have no benefit for those involved in this activity, which means for gardeners. Trust me, this is how it ends, it's not good. And I ask everyone to think about it, possibly support me and not support the House version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u27	Thank you. So far, it's the last logged in. I don't see anyone else logged in, I'm ending the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words? There is no interest, so we will proceed to the vote. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution requires the approval of an absolute majority of Members present. I'll wait, in the meantime, I'll read one apology. Today between 17.40 and 19 o'clock, until the end of the day, for reasons of the family, Mrs. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal for a law on the promotion of gardening activities, garden law, according to House press 634/8, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 634/9." I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 35, 171 Members signed in, for 31, against 59. The motion was denied. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Kvorum is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on the promotion of gardening activities, the law of gardening, as amended by the Senate, according to House press 634/8'. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 36, 172 Members registered, for 140, versus 23. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the senator and the plaintiff and we will proceed to the next point. Yes, Mr. Ambassador, Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to take six minutes off on behalf of the ČSSD MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u29	Six minutes break, so I'm calling a break by 6:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-004-004.u30	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we have 18.30, a pause has passed, and I am therefore opening a fixed point.
