ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u1	46. The proposal by Members Tomáš Vymazal, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, Petr Pávek, Ondřej Veselý, Patrik Nacher, Dominik Feri and others to issue a law amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of some other laws, as amended /German press 331/ - first reading I ask that Mr Tomáš Vymazal present this proposal for the plaintiff, and before I give him my word, I shall ask Mrs Ilona Mauritzová to take her place at the rapporteur's table. Now, then, Mr TomáTomáš Vy erasel, as he announced his previous performance, has the opening word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you to present and justify a proposal which aims to address the long-term unsatisfactory situation in the area of criminalisation of cannabis users and growers. Cannabis is very popular in the Czech Republic. According to various studies, more than one fourth youth has experience with him, and in adults it is even two out of five. Although expenditure on repression, unlike long-term underfunded prevention, is growing year after year, figures have long shown that the number of users is not falling. In addition, the police will on average reveal and seize only something between 2 and 3 percent of cannabis consumed annually in the Czech Republic. We can't even talk about efficiency here, otherwise we would have come to the conclusion that the availability of cannabis could have been reduced far more, even times more, if we had bought cannabis on the black market for the money that repressive efforts cost us, and then just burned it. That's a crazy idea, isn't it? No one would do that, such a waste of resources. However, it is interesting that instead of financing drug prevention, which, according to publicly available studies, works up to four times better than repression, we prefer to burn money more expensive and less effective by trying to enforce prohibition. What, then, is the real result of repression? The black market exists, continues to grow, and with it the motivation to enter the black market as a producer or some vendor, a grower. The greater the uncontrolled and in no way regulated availability of cannabis to juveniles as well as the chance of contacting other substances from the black market when purchasing. According to research carried out by experts from the 1st Faculty of Medicine at Charles University and the General Faculty Hospital in 2007, the total social costs associated with illegal psychotropic substances were CZK 6.7 billion, that is in 2007. The cost of law enforcement authorities, including the prison system, was 5.6 billion. Since then, spending on the DEA and other similarly significant items has doubled roughly. Today, at least CZK 11 billion per year is needed to enforce law and psychotropic substances. About 20 per cent of these costs can be added to cannabis. This means that the enforcement of the current prohibition of cannabis costs us over CZK 2 billion each year. Each of us in this hall should realize the grotesque fact that despite the persistently slim effect, this ban on cannabis costs even more and more money. This is money that we could save if adults were allowed to dispose of cannabis for personal use under clear conditions. The absurd icing on the cake is that the state spends almost CZK 3 billion a year in order to reduce the supply on the black market without a chance of success and, on the one hand, to assist users who have problems with its use, but, unlike the alcohol market, it cannot collect VAT or excise duty from the existing cannabis market, so it continues to bear all costs and has neither healthy citizens nor children who do not smoke, nor taxes, nor joy, nor anything. [[16.20 hours]] A frequent argument by opponents to regulate the availability of cannabis is that allowing self-growing for personal use is contrary to the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. That's definitely true. However, it is necessary to understand the circumstances under which this Convention was established. Whether we discuss then racial discrimination in the United States, the efforts of politicians to silence the anti-war opposition, or, for example, the international trade war of manufacturers of old and new drugs, we will find that today the absurd and apparently lying health consequences of cannabis use were merely a proxy for its inclusion right next to heroin. Since then, false claims about cannabis have been convincingly refuted many times, but the wording of the Convention has not yet made any fundamental changes to reflect this. There's nothing world-class about me designing a novel. When you look around the world, you can see that many of the developed countries have changed their approach to cannabis in recent years. Canada, Spain or the United States are also signatories to this Convention, and yet they have proceeded to regulate availability. It was mostly the cost of ineffective repression and the not-so-serious social impact of cannabis that these states have led to a change of attitude towards this Convention. The amendment I came to introduce to you today is intended to address the current disastrous situation. It aims to address it in such a way that it is intended to allow adults in the Czech Republic to grow up to five plants of hemp inside their home or land, then to harvest and dry them. It also proposes that they be able to process their cannabis into cannabis products, such as ointments or Tinctures, while keeping them on condition that they are prevented from accessing other persons. Finally, I suggest that outside their homes they should be able to take a maximum of 30 grams of cannabis and thus limited quantities also have the opportunity to hand over free of charge to another adult. In this way, I want to introduce regulation where repression fails. The current adjustment makes hundreds of thousands of hardworking and orderly criminals. It's people who have families, pay taxes, and don't really feel like criminals. According to the 2019 Ipsos survey, 53,8 percent of adult citizens wish to be able to buy cannabis in state-built stores, and even more than 81 percent of citizens over 45 wish to be able to grow a limited number of cannabis plants. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what good is a law that wants to put a large proportion of the population behind bars for growing herbs, whose effects are proven to be less serious than, for example, the effects of legal alcohol? I already told you, but I'll do it again. Intoxicated cannabis is now commonly grown and used by people in the Czech Republic. And our proposal doesn't change that. It can only prevent costly and senseless criminalisation of otherwise blameless citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u3	I thank Mr Tomáš Vymazal. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Ilona Mauritzová to take up her intelligence report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, House press number 331 is the proposal of a group of Members headed by Mr Tomáš Vymazal. It concerns the legalization of cultivation and the further treatment of small quantities of cannabis only for persons with permanent residence in the Czech Republic. It was submitted on 14 November 2018. The draft law which amends Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, legalizes the cultivation, processing and storage of cannabis or cannabis products by natural persons for their own use and in small quantities. The proposal defines small quantities of cannabis and also allows this quantity to be donated free of charge to another aged natural person. The proposed setting of rules for the legal treatment of small quantities of cannabis, specifically for its cultivation, processing, possession and free handover, would change the current situation where the mere possession of small quantities of cannabis for its own use is an offence. Newly, this condition would be legalized. In its opinion on the proposal of 19 December 2018, the Government opposed this proposed law, in particular for several following reasons. According to the Government, the proposal is a complete waste of health risks and, in its view, is also contrary to the drug problem and policy of the Czech Republic, which is enshrined in the National Strategy for Drug Policy, and at the same time is in conflict with the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, which is bound by the Czech Republic. In the Government's view, the proposal is also in conflict with European law, because it gives the right to grow and to dispose of small quantities of cannabis only to persons who have permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic, which the government considers discriminatory. Last but not least, the government argues that it would lead to a non-systematic state in assessing the criminality of individual transactions with cannabis, where some would be completely legal, other punishable as an offence and other criminal, which, in the government's view, would not be logical and proportionate. Allow me, however, to make a recommendation on this bill and ask you to vote on its release for second reading and thus give the opportunity to have a thorough discussion, especially in the Committee on Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Ilona Mauritzová, for her report and I am opening a general debate. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný is the first to sign up for it with priority rights. Mrs. Maříková will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me point out to this material that, although I believe that it is presented with good intentions, it is unfortunately contrary to international law, it is directed against the fundamental objectives of the government's national drug policy strategy and, in our opinion, does not bring positives. The draft amendment to the Act is contrary to the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, which allows cannabis plants to be grown for the purpose of obtaining cannabis or resin from cannabis only for therapeutic or scientific purposes, subject to the authorisation of the State Agency. The explanatory memorandum seeks to mitigate the interpretation of international conventions affecting this area in order to achieve a favourable interpretation for the authorisation of use and cultivation for own use, which I do not think can be accepted. Cannabis is an addictive substance and can only be used for scientific or therapeutic purposes in accordance with the Conventions, not for its own purposes without a specification of use - that is essential - as the explanatory memorandum states. At the same time, it cannot be accepted that the cultivation of cannabis for own use is a gardening purpose and therefore the conditions of international regulation do not apply to it. From my point of view, this claim is purposeful, contrary to the proposal itself, since the proposal and the explanatory memorandum also dealt with the processing of cannabis for own use. From Article 28 The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs makes it clear that, if States permit the cultivation of cannabis plants for the purpose of producing cannabis or resin, they must set up a scheme for cultivation provided for in this single Convention, which does not provide for the proposal. [[16.30 hours]] Another claim in the explanatory memorandum is that the single convention applies only to the production of cannabis on a large scale. That's not true. Conventions for addictive substances do not set quantitative limits from which the arrangements laid down therein need to be applied, nor do they allow the possibility of self-growing for therapeutic use. On the question of setting limits for the holding of addictive substances in practice in some countries, it should be added that not all countries have established limits for determining the difference in possession of addictive substances that distinguish offences and offences. However, the conventions require that illegal possession of an addictive substance, for purposes other than therapeutic or scientific purposes in compliance with legal measures, should always be sanctioned. To argue with the so-called Canadian model, which is probably inspired by the material, let me just point out that this is true, but Canada, by its model, grossly violates international conventions and is for this uncompromisingly criticised by the International Narcotics Control Office in Vienna. Furthermore, we believe that the decision to release cannabis cultivation for so-called recreational purposes would certainly have a negative impact on drug tourism, both ways. For one thing, the number of offences or offences committed in connection with addictive substances would increase in the Czech Republic and massive illegal exports to other countries where possession or unauthorised cultivation is illegal, which are currently all neighbouring countries. In the Schengen area, which is part of the Czech Republic and all neighbouring countries, it is necessary to act responsibly towards all Member States and it is not possible in this case to threaten or expose them to something for which they do not have legislation, just as it is not possible to threaten such a decision by the Czech Republic itself. Nor can it be ignored that although the legal treatment of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances is not fully harmonised in the European Union, a negative reaction from the European Union can be expected in the event of the release of conditions for cannabis cultivation for recreational purposes in the Czech Republic. European law in criminal matters implements the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, as well as other conventions on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and drug trafficking. If, then, a Member State of the European Union fully legalizes cannabis, this would be seen as a breach of the legal framework from the European Commission's point of view, and would therefore be at risk of initiating a non-compliance procedure. At the time the material was ready, the main document was the national strategy policy 2010-2018, which, in line with its long-term character, defines strategies in four basic objectives, reducing the level of experimental and occasional drug use, especially by young people, reducing the level of problem and intensive drug use, reducing potential risks associated with drug use for individuals and society and reducing the availability of drugs, especially for young people. I believe that we would violate all these four objectives with this proposal. On 13 May 2019, the Government actually discussed and approved a national strategy for the prevention of damage associated with dependent behaviour for 2019-2027. Its aim is to prevent and reduce, in particular, health, social, economic and intangible damage resulting from the use of addictive substances, gambling and other addictive behaviour, as well as the existence of legal and illegal markets for addictive substances. I believe that the proposal put forward would go against that objective. Last but not least, the proposal goes away with the health risks it carries. According to the World Health Organization, cannabis use has a generally negative impact on cognitive development, including associative neurological processes, memory, psychomotor functions, and has chronic harmful effects on the mental and other health aspects of users, regardless of the inhalation of a number of cancer-forming substances in the incineration of cannabis, similar to cigarette smoke. In this respect, I completely lack the meaning of this proposal, we do not find a positive consequence of such a step, and it is evident that from a medical point of view the proposal does not bring any benefits. The draft law then unwarrantedly creates a problem with far-reaching impacts on the health system actually with the permission of the State. In addition to the problem of alcohol use, which, of course, is equally important, which the Czech Republic is facing very strongly, we would create and increase a similar problem. It is known that the funds obtained by the State from the sale of alcohol and tobacco will far from cover the financial damage caused by their use. However, the draft law does not even count on the financial contribution to the State in this respect, but it is clear that it will draw funds from the financial system. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore reject the proposed amendment to the law, because it is contrary to international law and at the same time brings great social and health risks, which, in our view, is unacceptable. I therefore ask that you also join this negative position of the Government and the Ministry of Health and reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u7	I thank the Minister for Health Jan Blatný and we continue the debate with the speech of Mrs Karla Maříková, Marek Novák will prepare. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, submitters propose legalization of the cultivation and processing and storage of cannabis and cannabis products in small quantities for their own use and their free handover, even though cannabis is still the most widely used illegal drug in Europe. The leading position of this drug is evident from its representation in seizures, drug offences and new treatment requests. The appellants in this law, namely Section 2 (l), want to legalise the free handover of cannabis or cannabis products to another natural person over 18 years of age, not more than 30 grams of dry matter, without any related consideration. Why should cannabis be handed over free of charge? After all, the submitters themselves claim that this is about their own needs. So if I give someone free cannabis, it'll be okay, and if I give him for a candy bar or 20 kroner, it'll be a misdemeanor or a felony? That's really very pointless. We also see that the petitioners have taken citizens who have health problems and are using cannabis products for treatment, and they are de facto using these citizens on the pretext of free dealing. Furthermore, we must realise that distribution of anything will also bring advertising and pressure to increase consumption. The legalization of cannabis dealing brings enormous risks to the growth of consumption. But let us return to the quantity that the appellants want to allow to be handed over free of charge. It's 30 grams. This is the volume of marijuana at the time of street prices for CZK 7,500. So it's not just for your own use. The petitioners here are proposing a free distribution of 30-gram marijuana bags. Paragraph 24c (a) states: "The planting or processing of no more than five plants of hemp in a dwelling or on a plot or in a site located on a land which is not publicly accessible and is subject to a private title for its use'. What if I have or someone has five properties or five houses owned? So you can have five plants on each plot? That's very, very vague. In Section 24c, point 3, a natural person who, for his own use, has an obligation under paragraph 3 of this Article. 1 grows a cannabis plant, processes and retains cannabis or cannabis products, is required to avoid free access by third parties to cannabis plants, cannabis plants and cannabis products. It is obliged to prevent the free access of third parties to cannabis plants. Well, that's quite vague. So if I grow cannabis at home and I get a visit that goes into the living room or the garden, and I give her free access, I commit a misdemeanor or another felony? Or do I have to put a flower in a cage with a lock on it to prevent free access? Who's gonna say that? In the explanatory memorandum, the petitioners mention an interesting precedent, namely, in the State of Uruguay. Here, three years ago, a standard came into force which allows the registration of five plants of cannabis to be grown in the domestic environment. In Uruguay, it is possible to grow five plants on the basis of registration. So I did not notice that this law proposed any registration at all. The comparison is absolutely misguided. Not that I agree with the law as proposed in Uruguay, but let's see how it actually works there. Every resident in this country can buy cannabis in local pharmacies, in five-gram packs, with a gram worth 1.3 US dollars, or less than 30 crowns. The state is watching where the marijuana comes from. In fact, sold plants are grown only on state-guarded fields. However, every resident can grow the plant at home for his own needs, and it can even be placed on a state farm where the plant will be well cared for. Every buyer has to be registered. This principle is intended to prevent the sale of marijuana to tourists or restrict people with permanent residence outside Uruguay. People with permanent residence in the country have the possibility to buy marijuana, which they can buy without limit, while people with permanent residence outside the country can buy only 40 grams. [[16.40 hours]] When the petitioners present us as an example of Uruguay, it would probably be good to mention that this country has become a smuggler's paradise, and I assume that we do not want the Czech Republic to get this far. Cannabis remains the most common used illegal drug in Europe and its core position is also reflected in drug offences, seizures and new treatment requests. In the last year, cannabis has used around 17,2 million young people in the European Union between the ages of 15-34 and around 1% of Evropan between the ages of 15 and 64 use cannabis every day. Cannabis covered more than three quarters, which is 77 percent, of the 800,000 drug-related or drug-related offences recorded in the European Union in 2016 and for which the primary drug is known. This is also the most commonly recorded drug. 763 000 cases were reported in 2016 in the European Union. Cannabis is responsible for the highest proportion in Europe - 45 percent - of reported newcomers requesting treatment. The number of first-time applicants for treatment due to cannabis problems has increased from 43 000 to 75 000 in 25 countries from which data are available from 2006 to 2016. Recent changes in the cannabis regulatory framework in some parts of North and South America, including legalisation in some jurisdictions, have led to the rapid development of the commercial market for recreational cannabis in these areas. This results in innovation in the supply system and in the development of hemp products as filling in electronic cigarettes, edible products or varieties with high potency. Many smokers use marijuana to induce euphoria. In fact, research shows that the use of marijuana can cause a number of short and long-term effects on the human body, and here are a few of them. It is needed dry mouth, dizziness, increased appetite or memory impairment. Many studies show that cannabis users experience a deterioration in short-term memory. Other studies show that cannabinoids disrupt all phases of memory. Young people using marijuana are thus the most endangered group. The 2000 study confirmed that the consequences of cannabis use are much more severe in adolescents who may have a lasting impact on cannabis. Another side effect is lack of motivation. Some people, such as recreational cannabis users, feel demotivated to any activity. The 2003 survey confirmed a loss of motivation for 53 percent of cannabis users.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u9	I understand, Madame. I'll ask the House for peace so you don't have to raise your voice, and others who are discussing a subject other than addictive substances, please in the foyer. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u10	Thank you. Loss of motivation can probably be affected to some extent by the way cannabis affects the brain. Some studies suggest that long-term cannabis users have much lower levels of dopamine in the brain, a chemical that acts in the brain and results in motivation. Another side effect is depression, anxiety, and paranoia, or, of course, addiction. And I could name another one here, as an effect on fertility, pulmonary problems caused by smoking marijuana, has an effect on human teeth. Fans might argue that it is safer to vaporize, but it is not entirely risk-free when we talk about oil, not dry flowers. Some oils may contain glycol and glycerin, thus being carcinogenic and supporting the formation of dental caries. Marijuana has no doubt also medicinal effects in the case of a number of diseases such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinsonův' s disease, cataracts, epilepsy, a number of skin diseases and others that cannabis treatment has proven to be working on. But I cannot agree with free dealing and support the already sad statistics on the increase in drug use, and for that reason I am proposing rejection at first reading. Given that the government is coming up with a more comprehensive proposal, there is no point in returning the press to the petitioners for revision. Both the petitioners and all the Members have the opportunity to come up with amendments to the government amendment, which can still be completed in such a way that, however, there is no abuse of people who want to use marijuana purely for treatment purposes with the aim of free dealing. At a conference on drugs held here in the Chamber of Deputies, Judge Pavel Kuřátko said: "Whenever I stand as a forensic expert in the field of psychiatry in a court discussing the actions of a young delinquent, I almost always tend to place on the bench a system that rules in this country and whose young people are victims. " Ladies and gentlemen, the system is created by us legislators. And I'd like to ask you to think about that today at the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u11	Thank you, Mrs Karla Maříková. There will now be a factual comment by Zdeněk Ondráček before his colleague Marek Novák. I register my application and my colleague Vymazal, but he is behind my colleague Holomčík because he does not have priority rights as a petitioner, and I would also like to point out that if he does not do the application in writing, electronically, he may fail in order. Now two minutes for Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Through you to Mrs Maříková. My colleague, you should get a gun license for that mouth! That was a machine gun today. Normally, you talk much slower. You spit it out today, but basically in a lot of truth or, basically, in everything, the truth. But I'd be better off if you said it slower. There's no rush. I dare - and I admire - that you have read the whole thing because I have read the introduction and I knew how to vote because I will never support such things. The noble one, as the Minister of Health has medically commented, is of course also very beautiful. I'm only gonna take a short gag. You know, while I was still working with the criminal police and I was eight years away from general crime, I came into contact with some of these people. It's one of the worst jobs you can do in the police department, dealing with these people. And here in the Chamber of Deputies with the Committee on Security, Mr Vice-President and Mr President of the Sub-Committee on Prisons, for example, visited the prison in Valdice and we had the opportunity to speak with you, Pavel Kuřátk, who has been my personal friend for many years. You know, people who use addictive substances in the long run, and that's marijuana, get to the point that they have IQ macaques. I originally wanted to use chimps, but that's a very intelligent creature, and I would probably hurt him that way. So let's let this place finish talking, and let's reject this proposal right away at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marek Novák, will prepare Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u14	Thank you for the floor. I think we've all heard the suggestion that it's possible, or would be possible, to have a dryer of 1,250 grams at home. This is a classic cigarette of an unnamed brand that weighs 0.7 grams. [[shows]] Please imagine how many... it's about 17 cartons! But of course I'll have the answer here, no matter how much is in the ointment. I don't know. Great. So that was how much you could have at home. You'll make about 17 cartons. How much can you carry out? It's 30 grams I suspect, i.e. 42 cigarettes. That's two more cigarettes than it's in these two boxes. [[It shows again.]] So it's actually just an illustration of what would be possible according to the proposal. I don't know if it's enough or if it's too much. I'm sure my colleagues will say: we would, of course, have modified it if we had agreed in some way. No, I don't want to make a deal. Although the possibility of self-growing cannabis for own use is allegedly aimed at a group of persons who need it from a therapeutic or therapeutic point of view, it should also be noted that by adopting this proposal in this form, which is presented, there would be massive misuse of cannabis for other than therapeutic purposes, i.e. toxicoman purposes. [[16.50 hours]] You've heard it here several times. This would actually legalize the recreational use of marijuana. And while there are some limitations in the proposal, there are no tools to control the restrictions. According to the words of the police, who would have to supervise the law being followed in the case of a pirate proposal, it was said: We wouldn't really be able to control it, we wouldn't be able to make sure that marijuana doesn't reach the children, we just weren't. They don't have the capacity. Yes, it's true that even from the black market, marijuana gets to children. Why expand the market further? I must stress that the institute of cannabis for medical purposes was implemented into the Czech legal system a few years ago. It can be used under legal conditions. From the point of view of the financial availability of therapeutic cannabis it is certainly possible to object to its high price. However, this should not affect the assessment of this particular bill. The legalization of cannabis would bring a number of fundamental changes in the Czech legal system, whether criminally or administratively. All these changes could give rise to other very serious consequences in the field of addictive substances called legal addictive substances such as alcohol and tobacco, which are already causing considerable problems in society and are difficult to regulate. With this step, we would only add another very problematic group of substances. International statistics show that the Czech Republic has long been at the forefront of cannabis use and cannabis use. We see it every year in the drug report. And this is especially the case with minors - we are again with children. Why? The legalization of cannabis would only deepen this problem. And the risk group of children would be even more at risk. The bill certainly does not reflect the difference of cannabis as a plant. It cannot be any plant of the genus Cannabis without restriction. Currently, it is thanks to genetic breeding and technologically beneficial conditions that these plants become highly potent sources of psychoactive substance THC with a percentage concentration of more than 20 percent of the active substance, which shifts the plant to a completely different level of harmfulness. It is very likely that psychoactive cannabis would be legalized for so-called recreational purposes, as varieties with high THC content would be cultivated. The text itself also does not indicate whether the petitioner distinguishes CBD, or the active substance delta-9-THC, or isomers, the therapeutic use, or the use of toxicomanic. These terms are confused and not clear at all. It also contains information that the cannabis plant itself is a substance of narcotics and the active substance THC, including its isomers, is a substance of psychotropics. On the contrary, it accentuates a non-psychoactive substance called CBD, whose exact effects on the human organism are not fully investigated, but we already know that according to preliminary surveys this substance is very beneficial to health. It is not possible to agree with other provisions of the proposal, such as the institute of free transmission of cannabis between natural persons. Such conduct is considered a criminal offence under criminal law. The legalization and release of the cannabis market would violate international conventions. Yes, often our citizens are not interested in what international conventions are, and they are interested in how they live in our Republic. I get it. We know what the trouble is in Canada. Personally, I do not consider the 1961 International Convention to be so essential. Anyway, if there is an agreement, it is to be respected. The bill's amendment is in conflict with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, but not in 1961, but in 1972. We should think for ourselves about how we should be active in this field of international law from the point of view of the state, and in some way also work to update these agreements, but not in favour of growing, self-growning, self-healing or distribution across society, but with a sensible consensual proposal that will help those sick people who are all leaning on here, even though I am beginning to feel that it is only our crutch that we are not interested in. Who here last said how many people need medicinal cannabis? Today, 90 percent of people who need medicinal cannabis and who go to a doctor fit into a fully-paid amount of 90 grams. So we're talking about 10 percent of the patients, and I'm sorry, I don't have a specific number right now. Of course, every single life matters. But, please, we also need to realize that this standard, which we would rely on by 10 percent of the patients, will put our children at risk. In the Schengen area, the Czech Republic must behave cautiously with regard to all Member States, not endangering them with its decisions. The decision to release cannabis cultivation for recreational purposes would certainly have a negative impact on drug tourism, in both directions. I do not believe that the condition of a free handover would eliminate this phenomenon only to the citizens of the Czech Republic. I certainly don't think so. In the Czech Republic, the number of offences committed under the influence of an addictive substance can be expected to increase after the amendment has been approved, and there could also be significant illegal exports of cannabis to countries where its possession or illegal cultivation is illegal. At the moment, they are actually all neighbouring countries. In the absence of control measures, the development of the black market in cannabis and related crime, whether primary or secondary, is envisaged. According to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, no state in the European Union is in favour of legalising the sale of cannabis for recreational purposes. All these countries have a prison sentence for his illegal offer. In the European Union, too, initiatives have been taken to change the situation of cannabis at regional level or at the level of major cities. However, they did not result in any outcome. These include, for example, Spain, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands. Therefore, all the changes in legislation that were made in the EU countries in the field of cannabis concerned only the adjustment of the size of the penalty. No country has abolished all sanctions or allowed the legal distribution of cannabis. This particular proposal completely ignores health risks. According to the World Health Organization, cannabis use generally has a negative impact on cognitive development, including associative neurological processes, memory, psychomotor functions. It has chronic harmful effects on the psychic and other aspects of the health of users, regardless of inhalation of a whole range of cancer-forming agents during the incineration of cannabis. We need to talk about burning cannabis, too, because smoking is the most common form of illegal application. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] You may ask Mr President to turn down the microphone, if that bothers you, Mr colleague, through Mr President. On the points, I can therefore clearly summarize the various pitfalls of the pirate proposal. The proposal doesn't alter the control of cannabis plants. There is no explanation of the concept of publicly accessible land. Persons who are free to pass on cannabis may not be blameless? Doesn't it have to be with permanent residence in the Czech Republic? How will checks be carried out on persons who will grow and process cannabis plants? Who's gonna do it? There is no detailed survey of current cannabis use in the Czech Republic. What was the methodology actually carried out? I couldn't find it in the explanatory note. Survey of current cannabis use in the Czech Republic, mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. We are part of the Schengen area and the European Union. How specifically will exports be dealt with or controlled? [[17,00 hours]] With the adoption of the proposal, the number of cannabis users is not expected to increase. Indeed, within the Schengen area, this can be doubted with success. According to research, 22 percent of citizens agree that cannabis use should be socially tolerated and not penalized. Does that mean that 78 per cent is against it? It's not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum again. So I don't know what that number represents in the explanatory memorandum. The argument that regular users of high-content cannabis could be helped by more affordable low-content cannabis is completely odd from my point of view. How is it that people will not grow high - content cannabis? How in particular? The argument that the legalization of self-growth will save on control and repression costs: from my point of view, completely misleading. Checking who grows and whether they actually grow only five plants would require more expenditure on control activities. The calculation alone does not include the fact that cannabis use can have negative effects in the health and social field. In particular, the impact of reduced study and work activities may affect the State's expenditure associated with this. The proposal states that the total ban on cannabis cultivation, as is currently the case, prevents effective prevention and control of cannabis use by children and adolescents. What, in particular, will the proposed change in this area help? It's not mentioned again. The 2019 ESPAD study refers to the fact that at least one experience with the use of illegal drugs in life had a total of 29,3% of 16-year-old students surveyed. Most often it was cannabis, that's marijuana or hashish. At least once in their lives, they've been tried by 28,4% of the students. Of these, 10,6 percent reported a one-off experiment with cannabis substances and 17.8% reported repeated use. 6.6% of students are - and beware - at the risk of cannabis use. 6.6 percent of students! I think it's a low number. 1,7 % at high risk. How many people are there? These are between 11 000 and 14 000 students who are at risk of cannabis use. 11,000 to 14,000 students at risk! Great. The use of marijuana has its risks. Hm. And I'm asking why the pirát don't mention them in their novels or in her performances, but even in the explanatory report, they don't mention a letter, let alone a word, and if only a sentence. Then I'll do it. What can marijuana use do? And what causes the 11,000, at least 11,000 students? Acute intoxication. This is a change of behavior and perception. There is euphoria, a feeling of release or depression. But there may also be anxiety and restlessness, paranoia. Intoxication can also cause auditory, visual and tactile hallucinations and interference with reality. Sometimes I feel like we're getting lost here too. Short-term risks bind to acute intoxication and are mostly associated with psychological complications. And these include anxiety states, panic attacks, psychotic reactions, depressive reactions. And what are we going to do about the long-term risks that are also here? Passivity, reduced motivation, mood swings. Cannabis drugs in men affect the production of male hormones and they can sign, friends, just about on sperm quality. I'm warning juniors they might have a problem. In women, cannabis drugs affect the ovulation process. Why don't we tell those young students? Let them know, losers. Brain damage. Canadian research has shown that teenagers with worse memory and self - control are more likely to use alcohol and marijuana. However, further findings are more remarkable. The increase in cannabis consumption was associated with worse test results both in the year in question and in the following year. And that could, of course, mean - they don't claim research to mean it, they say it could mean - that marijuana can have longer-term effects on brain function than we thought. Pupils from 31 schools each year undergo computer tests focused on working memory. That's short-term memory. It allows you to remember the information needed to solve tasks, the perception that allows you to use the information obtained through the senses to understand the outside world. Long-term memory, thanks to which we can remember information even after a long time, and self-control, for example, the ability to resist harmful impulses. All these tasks included, for example, remembering the pattern and repeating it 30 minutes later - completing a series of puzzles or finding a phone in a group of pictures. Students also completed an anonymous questionnaire regarding consumption of marijuana and alcohol. It was from zero, which meant never, until five, which meant every day. This questionnaire showed that alcohol at least occasionally drinks 75 per cent - yes, alcohol is worse - and 28 per cent smokes marijuana. It was a surprise for scientists themselves when researchers then compared the results of tests and the consumption of narcotic drugs, even in relation to data from previous years. This helped to show whether the use of marijuana or alcohol foreshadowed changes in test results. Even family income, gender, ethnicity, and whether adolescents lived with both biological parents were taken into account in the evaluation. It turns out that students using marijuana during the four years monitored more often had worse results regarding working memory - perception, self - control - compared to those who did not use cannabis. Moreover, the increase in consumption was related to the deterioration of self-control in the following year. In the case of younger pupils, the link between the use of addictive substances and the results of the tests was even more pronounced. On the other hand, more frequent alcohol consumption during the four-year period was linked to worse work memory, perception and self-control, but changes in consumption did not sign up for test results. Maybe it's because the alcohol's been worse since the beginning. Scientists noted that they were surprised that the effects of marijuana were more pronounced than those of alcohol and were also surprised by the lasting effects, i.e. irreversible. Even though the young person reduced consumption, the influence could still be seen a year later. Personally, I could read you a lot more of these researches, but I'm sure there'll be plenty of room for discussion. But I'm going to end this with a question, and I would ask the petitioner for an answer to that question. Why do pirát take hostage people who need cannabis to improve their health or ease their pain? Why don't they mention the risks? Why don't they mention another endangered group, and more numerous? [[17.10 hours]] Well, I guess that's because it's convenient. I will ask you, please begin, dear pirát, to speak at last equally and intensively not only about the medicinal effects of cannabis, but also about the harmfulness of cannabis use. Personally, I don't think it's right for you, but I'm not going to anticipate here, I believe the translator will answer that. I am merely saying that I will definitely support him and vote in favour of Maříková this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u15	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will make a point of fact. Mr Tomáš Vymazal will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, that was a little bit of a soft touch from my colleague, through Mr President. He said: There will certainly be room for discussion to conclude by saying: Well, actually I will support the rejection of the proposal. And that's also something that should undoubtedly be heard here. This proposal was made in 2018. He's been lying here for two years and it's been dusting on him. And now, finally, there is room for institutionalised parliamentary debate. The debate will last until the general debate is exhausted, and then somebody will push through the majority, push through, so it will be rejected by the majority. In our opinion, and this is also the opinion of our club, there should be a reasonable debate here on the social phenomenon and on this matter in committees, because everyone can speak in committees, experts from the Czech Republic, from abroad, can speak in much more detail about the partial agendas. The important thing is that there aren't cameras that seduce to lead Filipiks like my previous speaker here. This means: that is why our parliamentary club will not support the motion for rejection. We have different opinions about this. I'm signed under the proposal, but maybe my colleagues are looking at it differently. But we all believe that the debate should be conducted, and not that after two years in two hours, we are somehow chatting it up and then rejecting it, and that is why water is closed in the Czech Republic for a debate on the future of recreational use of cannabis or cannabis use as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u17	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Tomáš Vymazal will now speak. Mr. Marek Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have raised the factual point specifically on one of Mr Novák's remarks, so I will only comment on him, and then I will speak in the debate with the rest. This was specifically that I would like to reply by your means, Mr President, to Mr Novák, that I thank him for mentioning the statistics relating to cannabis use among young people of school age. Specifically, it shows how cannabis was not legalized in Holland in 1976, they began to tolerate the fact that cannabis was being sold, and the result of this intervention was nothing more than that their youth prevalence fell by half. So much for the influence on the young people we're talking about, which you couldn't trace, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u19	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u20	Thank you for your word. Through you to Mr. Ferim. I'm sure we have room at first reading. Then, on the previous point, we launched a government amendment on the committees. The government amendment deals with almost the same issue. In a way, it's technically different, but you could say it's actually the same issue. So there will definitely be room for further attention to this subject. The topic is open and it is open here in the House, even if we reject this particular proposal at first reading. As far as colleagues and statistics are concerned, I will repeat once again: 11,000 16-year-olds at high risk in the use of marijuana. This number is enough for me, and it convinces me that the proposal isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u21	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak in the debate, Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. At first I would start with a few notes on what was said, and then I would say my point of view. First of all, I was interested in the sentence of my colleague, Mrs Maříková, "free dealing." I wonder what free dealing is, such a new terminus technique. That's one thing. Second: colleague Ondráček said that regular cannabis consumer looks like a macaque. I don't see any macaques here, so apparently no one in the House is a regular consumer. [[Laughs in the courtroom.]] And as for my colleague, Novák, who I don't see here now, from our club, he spoke, and I was interested in: legal addictive substances, alcohol and cigarettes. They're legal, and then they're illegal. Well, maybe there's a dog buried in this, too. Because what he said there -- and I'm not an expert on it, so I'm not gonna argue with different statistics here, I don't have them here -- but what he said here would be bold to put under the alcohol that causes and what has long-term risks. He said what caused it and what long-term risks it has. And I think he's got the alcohol, too. But he kept his mouth shut about that. - I can see him now. Like I said, I'm neither an expert, nor a user, nor a consumer, nor a grower. However, sometimes you just have to get off because these things are important and you shouldn't keep quiet. On this point, I would stress what a politician should have for me, some consistency and a sense of context. So when it comes to consistency and context number one, I'm trying to act like a liberal and a democrat. So I'll remind you that although abstinence, I've supported a certain benevolence here for the amount of alcohol in watermen and cyclists. And it's all from the same wound, and the debate here was that we're going to order things that normally happen, we all know that's what's happening. And we're gonna tell the cyclist not to have a small beer because he's gonna be checked out somewhere. I supported it back then, although I don't drink alcohol. The same applies to smoking. I'm a non-smoker, and I was signed under the anti-smoking bill's amendment. And I'm also a non-smoker, and we also know how it works. And interestingly, the smokers who smoke here afterwards voted against. Nor am I a grass consumer, nor am I growing it, but it simply doesn't leave me cold with the problems of criminalising cannabis automatists for medical purposes. Don't be mad at me, colleagues. And I don't have to be a part of it myself. That's just it. I don't have to have any experience with this on my own. I don't have to smoke or drink or smoke myself, and yet I can have an opinion about it without it touching me personally. [[17.20 hours]] Context number two. It's also important to me who says that, that thing. Now I'm gonna be so honest. If a young man with dreadlocks addresses me with the legalization of marijuana in some form or decriminalization, now I don't want to be specific here, I don't feel the same way as being approached with the same thing by a elderly person who threatens to self-grown cannabis in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a country where the same punishment as for a violent crime, like rape, for self-creating cannabis. So I'm going to allow it to be authentic, to quote the letter again -- for the second time today, I'm sorry, it's not my fault that we've been talking about the energy business, and now we have this -- so now I'm going to read the second letter. I'm gonna cut it a lot short so I won't be as long as my colleague Novák. "Dear Mr. Nacher, I beg you ten minutes to read this letter by the end of this personal request." Don't worry, I'll cut it short, so it won't be ten minutes, it'll be about three minutes. "Because only you and your colleagues can help my family and others with their proposals and voting." I'm skipping part. "Already in primary school, the husband caught a disease that wasn't sufficiently cured, to which he collapsed by about ten years because it persisted in the body." I'm gonna skip the part again so I don't hold you up. And here it comes. "From natural treatment he was helped by demonized cannabis. He felt good about his regular use. He was productive, balanced, focused. He began to grow cannabis in the garden, for 100 m2 he wanted to collect more flowers and make a cure out of them, very effective. Unfortunately, he went to trial. He's on parole. In his naivety that he is not hurting anyone and helping himself, i.e. his family, he dropped out again and now he is waiting for trial. His actions are characterised as a particularly serious crime." A particularly serious crime! For this particularly serious crime, there is no stolen, beaten, cheated, harmed, or even lost to a financial or other office. This prosecution and many others bring no benefit to anyone, only injury, lots of nerves, lost time and the cost of the Treasury. In some cases, death was also due to the lack of an effective drug. On the other hand, not only is there no damage to this crime, but there are additional cures and stabilized patients. Stealing, fraud, violence, murder have always been and will be crimes, regardless of whether or not the perpetrators come upon them. But growing cannabis for its needs was not a crime, now it is and in the future need not be. And taking into account that there is no damage, that clearly proves what kind of perpetrator in quotes, who, according to our legislation, belong to the court and behind bars. Unfortunately, those who can disprove this, even those who judge cases, are not interested in studies and facts about cannabis. Cannabis grown in the garden has a different composition than cannabis grown indoor from the black market, where automatic machines, skunks, skanks are used - I don't know exactly how to read it - with high THC content. Cannabis is hundreds of species with different unique properties. Certain species are particularly suitable for certain diseases. It has already been said: Parkinsonův's disease, diabetes, epilepsy, etc. No one has died from cannabis use yet, unlike legal alcohol and tobacco. So much for the letter. I expect this proposal to be probably rejected, only a government amendment will continue, for which we will propose an amendment addressing the decriminalisation of self-grown farmers. But I'm quite curious and I'm asking the question - if he answers it, I'd like to - how would the colleagues who spoke before me deal with this thing, that the person who grows a few plants at home for medical purposes doesn't deal with it and so on, so he's facing the same punishment as for violent crimes. I find it hard to accept in 2021. If anyone's okay with it, okay. But if you have any other way to solve this part, I'll be grateful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u23	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. First of all, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Mr. Milan Feranec will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to correct Mr Nacher. Mr Member, through Mr President, I did not say that they looked like macaques about regular consumers. I wouldn't let anyone here judge him by what he looks like. But I was talking about how you can work your way up to macaque intelligence. And I also said that I didn't intentionally use a chimp because he's a very clever animal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u25	Mr. Milan Feranec will now appear. Mr. Adam Vojtěch will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I respond to what Mr Nacher said, or rather a little different. He opened up a debate here about the degree of liberal approach and less liberal. But we should also look at the practical effects of this law and I am really interested in the institute of impunity or legal free handover up to 30 grams. Practically, when we say today that the degree of detection of these acts is very small, how will it be in the future? That cop's gonna have to prove to him that the dealer was giving something away, that he was collecting and that it wasn't a loan refund? I can't imagine how I would handle this. With one dose, I'm gonna give you a refund receipt, by the way, okay? And one more comment, the free handout. We know how to distribute a new product free of charge. It's called a promotion. The purpose is to introduce a new product to start buying it, and in the case of addictive substances, let the customers get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u27	Thank you. Member Adam Vojtěch. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. We continue with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond very briefly to Mr Patrik Nacher's honourable colleague, through Mr President. I think the proposal we're discussing here deserves nothing more than rejection. Personally, I call him a "cannabis into every family," which I think is actually exactly what this proposal will do. And I don't think there's a fair argument. What Mr Nacher used here on the question of the use of cannabis for medical purposes. This is something completely different from that of this proposal, which actually legalizes unlimited cultivation, unlimited transmission, because there is no control. The proposal is not controllable in any way within the Czech Republic and I think it is completely wrong. We've got medical cannabis that works. When we look at how only last year the volume of cannabis prescribed for medical purposes increased, it is about 66 kg of cannabis for patients, about 14,000 recipes that have been prescribed. It is fourfold than the previous year because this House - and it is a good thing - approved 90 per cent public health insurance. So it is not true that patients who need cannabis for therapeutic purposes, who are actually indicated for this treatment, do not have room here to receive this treatment. I support it. I support cannabis for medical purposes. But I fundamentally reject legalization of unlimited cultivation and really dealing of cannabis within the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u29	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková. Mr. Holík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also dare to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Nacher, through you. I would recommend to such a person that, of course, he goes to a doctor and gets his cannabis prescribed if he helps him. I have no objection to using cannabis for medical purposes. But I'm surprised that this question comes from you, from the government side, when we have a government amendment that is dealing with this. You know what, every law you put on a bowl of scales and consider pros and cons. And unfortunately, on this proposal, it prevails against. The minister here said it would be a burden for the health system. But that will be a burden on the social system as well. I mentioned one of the side effects, and that's just the demotivation. What generation do we want here? Who doesn't want to go to school? Won't he want to work? Who's gonna feed her? Let's think about this, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u31	Thank you. Member Jaroslav Holík. Mr. Marek Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u32	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I will now follow up on my colleague, Mr Maříková, and I will respond to Mr Nacher's speech. I'm from Moravia. So when I'm from Moravia, that means maybe there's a little bit more fluid penicillin-slivovic consumption. If I'm growing plums, I can have them burned down in a state-approved rehearsal room. If I burn it at home, I risk a fine. So is marijuana. If I buy it at the pharmacy, everything's fine. And if I grow it at home, even for my own purposes, I have to count on it, Mr. Nacher, I'm telling you, I'm gonna be sanctioned for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u33	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák, Mr David Kasal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u34	Thank you for your word. I am only by your means, Mr President, to my honored colleague Patrik Nacher. Criminalization of self-creators: I'm sure it is, and I'm sure it's a subject that we should be talking about, why the punishments are what they are. Let's talk about that, I don't deny it. Anyway, from the letter -- no one died -- right after I heard it, I put a dash on it -- but no one got wise either. I'm bohužel so. As for the complaint, I'm not talking enough about cannabis medicine. I think there's a lot to talk about here in plenary. And I really needed to tell you and more or less balance the discussion by saying that although I fully support medicinal cannabis, so self-growth, which would lead us to expand the market uncontrolledly and spread uncontrolledly to those whom it can harm, so I am not, and that is more or less why I am talking about it here to realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u35	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, Mr Feri will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u36	Thank you for the floor. I will also respond to my honored colleague Patrik Nacher, but also to the petitioner. Well, I've never grown anything. I was intrigued by the letter from the hundred square meters. It seems enough to me for one consumer, but I don't want to question it, I don't know how big the plants are and how much it drys. I would like to say more of the practical things that have not been discussed here or have been derived from statistics. I work in the children's ward, and then we have both alcohol and marijuana. And she's not just with 16-year-olds, she's with ten-, 12-year-olds, and she's quite a percentage. It would certainly deserve further research, but I think the abuse in the Czech Republic is much larger in childhood and in much lower age categories than it needs. The effect on the health of these children is known and certainly not positive. And I don't think there's a big category of kids we're talking about here. For medical purposes, for pain relief and the like, I am not against it at all, on the contrary. But at a child's age, these things aren't really there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u37	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Birke will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u38	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Patrik Nacher is probably the only member of the coalition who can launch coalition MPs, which is great. [[With a smile.]] No, I really don't understand the morbid desire to reject the law at first reading, to label it as cannabis in every family, that's not really the point of the law. At the same time, when there was a line between the original and the original, this is something else - yes, it really is something else. And when Mr Novák, through Mr President, says here - let's talk about it there - he is wrong that these patterns cover the same issues. Nay, it is not true. That debate will be about something completely different from the proposal. I don't really understand what it would do to the opponents of this draft if they didn't vote to reject it, they let it go through the committees. Let them read the motion for rejection at second reading, so let them bury the proposal before the end of the parliamentary term, but let there be some rational debate where they can come to the committee to discuss it. Experience from abroad is rich, experience from individual American states is rich, approaches to this are diverse. There may also be arguments concerning prevalence among Czech youth or Czech society, certainly. But those aren't the things we normally do, the details in the Chamber of Deputies plenary. If you want to reject it, reject it at third reading, not now. All you're saying is, for us it's not a topic at all, for us it just doesn't represent anything. Yeah, but if it doesn't represent anything to you, then why do you keep arguing that it's such a big social thing? That's probably how you're supposed to deal with this as a major social issue - in the debate, in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u39	Thank you. Mr Jan Birke, Mr Hájek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My application to tech has aroused a big upheaval, you expect me to be very funny, but don't expect anything from it. I think I'll let you down. [[With a smile.]] On the other hand, I have to say that I have been terribly aware of the way I listen to you very carefully - because, I point out, I am absolutely not an expert on this matter, absolutely, believe it, a person should speak to what he understands, but I really can't do it - I have remembered the beautiful film Lonesome, when the main protagonist basically generally stated that there is little smoking in the Czech Republic. And the ex-minister, who stepped up and said "cannabis into every family," it evoke me to perform, for that reason - and now a little seriously: you know, I smoked 60 cigarettes a day five years ago. 60 cigarettes a day! Seven days later, it was an incredible amount of cartons and cigarettes. Because I know what a habit is. And after the unpleasant event that some colleagues remember, which struck me, a very serious event, I stopped smoking from day to day. And I can tell you, I know what an abstinence symptom is. You don't know any of you who haven't gone through this valley of shadow - I have to tell you, it's unbelievable. And after the previous speakers were heard here, those who get addicted to this substance - and I don't question the health effects in any way, but they get addicted - so I have to say that the way I've been hard to get out of it, from day to day, I can't imagine getting out of cannabis or marijuana. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u41	Thank you. Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes for working reasons for the next meeting today. Mr Josef Hájek is next with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u42	Mr President, colleagues, I have never smoked pot, I hope that it is visible or recognizable to me. [[There's laughter in the room.]] My colleague Petr Gazdík, through the President, probably read my thoughts because I wanted to know what the coalition partner's view on this issue is. So I haven't decided yet because there are opinions for and against, so I'd like to ask if anyone here is from the coalition partner, the partners of the pirát, colleagues from STAN to tell us what their opinion on this issue is. They're mostly experienced matadors who also remember something, so I'll be happy to learn, and maybe I'll change the proposal that's here, or adjust it from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u43	Thank you. Mr. Roman Onderka, at this time, the last one registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very short. Through your person to a colleague of Ferim. None of us who will vote for rejection has any morbid desires, so maybe you're the one with the TOP 09. We only follow the Constitution of the Czech Republic, we will vote according to our conscience and we will do so at first, second and third reading. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u45	Thank you. Mr Radek Holomčík will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad I could see myself after the crash of factual comments. I'd just like to say two things. Firstly, in response to Mrs Maříková's speech, which Mr Ondráček called, respectively, her performance called a machine gun dose, with which I agree, I would like to read a passage from one book: "I am in favour of a rational view of any drugs. What made drugs a devastating phenomenon of the 20th century was criminalization. Even death sentences can't prevent the production and use of drugs. Forbidden drugs, however, are a bargain. And the worst part is, not just for drug dealers and the mob, but also for politicians. That's a super-favourite subject. Unfortunately, as one man, all experts will confirm that drug populism costs gigantic money, lots of dead, but the result is zero. That is why not only doctors but also world economists, including Milton Friedman, are for decriminalizing drugs. For criminalization are those who live out of problems - politicians, police and mafia. Decriminating drugs is the mob's worst dream." Ladies and gentlemen, the author of this text, with which I identify to a large extent completely, is no one from the Pirate Party, but is the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura. It's a passage from the art of living, you'll find it on page 42. So I'd like to ask my colleagues at the SPD, or my colleague, what am I supposed to imagine under the opinional turn when President Okamura was furious about how criminalization was the Mafia's dream, what happened? That's the first thing. And the other thing. In response to Mr Novák - but other colleagues here have also said this, who have been upset about the difficult enforcement of the proposal, or the restrictions put there. I would like to remind you: last week on Wednesday morning we voted here on the sesame seed quotas, watermelons and other goods, Czech food or food, whether I am accurate. I was watching TV on Sunday, and the chairman of the Competition Authority said that he couldn't imagine how they were going to enforce this. They don't understand how they should do it, and if they want to do it somehow, they'd need at least as many employees as they have now, which is, I looked into the annual report, a cargo of some 250, 300 million a year. So I'd like to ask you, where were you last week, you law enforcement guards? You're talking about it here today, you're angry, and last week, you were totally bummed out. My colleague Nacher was right about at least one thing. He said the politician should be consistent. And I totally agree with him because if the politician is not consistent, he becomes a hypocrite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u47	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will therefore respond to my previous speaker, Mr Holomčík. You know what, Mr Member, through Mr President, this proposal came from me not only as a politician, but also as a paramedic. It would be a shame for me and all the paramedics if I raised my hand for your proposal. I am surprised that even teachers are signed under this proposal, because when I listen to educators in the Karlovy Vary Region complaining that drugged and ten-year-olds go to school, and they are unhappy about it and they don't know what to do, I am really surprised that Members of some professions support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u49	Thank you. Mr Radek Holomčík will now speak with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u50	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, I certainly do not want to question your professional background. I asked you when your chairman said a while ago that who's opposed to decriminalizing light drugs is basically a supporter of the mob when the change happened. That's what I asked. I don't question anyone's professional background at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u51	Thank you. While Mr Tomáš Vymazal is still in the debate, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura came forward with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for letting someone else read my book. That's where I was talking about using drugs for medical purposes. As a senator, I also voted in favour. But here we have to say, the pirát have been talking about me. And I noticed that when the pirát were entering politics, they were talking about being clean, wanting to make a new policy. So let's remember what came out. Pirates forge signatures on official documents sent to state authorities. Former Vice-President of Pirates Ingrid Romancová has published that a Member of the Pirates and current Vice-President of the party Jakub Michálek has repeatedly forged her signature on official documents sent to the authorities. Without her knowledge. Romancová publicly wrote - and I quote: "After the election, I found out that someone under my name was writing with ministries. With my fake signature. Michálek confessed as if nothing that he was doing it and that it is said to be in the political parties of common practice" - they are public quotes, everyone look them up on the Internet - "and that it is supposedly common practice in the political parties, that he represents the Vice-President, acts on his behalf and facilitates the agenda. So I crossed the line, even though I felt it was a scam, and I never really knew who you were and what I was writing about and what information I was after, and if, by any chance, someone would kill me, because a friend from the Justice Department said that for what I'm doing, someone could really want to remove me." The end of the quote of the then Vice-President of the Pirate Party Ingrid Romancová. But let's keep going. I didn't want to open it up, but if anyone's rubbing off on me, let's say it, and I will, of course, make it public, and I'm calling on all the other Members of the other parties: make it public, download it, and let's say, when the pirát here accuse us of what the Pirate Party is saying, and I'm just going to say your quotes, I'm just saying your quotes. And then we can go on, I've got about ten sides here, it's up to you. Furthermore, as we all know from public sources, pirate politician and representative in Prague 2 Jaroslav Němec spoke about other scandalous things - I quote only your politicians, okay?, I do not quote anyone outside - and he said, he talked about what is going on in the Pirate Party, because he can't watch it anymore. The documents at his disposal show that Prague's pirate representative and friend Jakub Michálek - I will leave out what was written about her - Michaela Krausová manipulated the selection procedure into the Supervisory Board in the Municipal House. So your deputy, Jaroslav Němec, says directly about you, that you have manipulated a public tender into the Supervisory Board at the Municipal House in charge of the City Council. I'm just quoting, then you can go on the mic here, but I quote from what your members of the Pirate Party say, okay? We're not at the Magistrate, so you can take care of it yourself. Maybe Patrik Nacher could say something about it, he's there, and maybe he knows that, too, but he's on another side, of course. After what we have here? You guys said you're such a clean side and how you do it all right... [[He's looking in the background.]] Aha! The new Member of the pirát, the former Member, we still remember him here, and a member of the narrowest leadership, Mikuláš Peksa, has publicly admitted - quote, I will quote: "In the House, I am just as much to get into the European Parliament." End of quote. [[Fun in the right side of the hall.]] Oh, that's the pirate style of politics! Come in... Aha! Those words were even confirmed by the Vice-President of the Pirates and chairman of their MP Jakub Michálek, who said - and I am just quoting again - quote, so I quote Jakub Michálek, what he said about these statements by Mikuláš Peksa. So I quote Jakub Michálek: "The nature of our dispute with Mikuláš Peksa lies in a different view of the purpose of political work. I worked with Mikuláš Peksa in the House, and when I pointed out to him in his face that instead of real political efforts he was just meeting with the ambassadors, he told me that he was in the House just as much to get into the European Parliament." End of quote. So your chairman of the MP's club confirmed it once more. We even got it twice from you. [[17.50 hours]] Okay, what's going on here? Anti-corruption party! The links of the pirate leaders to the management of JCDecaux, whose top manager Tomáš Tenzer is tried for corruption and manipulation of public procurements at the Prague City Council, were also revealed. Fighting for a trough, placing friends in well-paid functions. And what were those photographs we saw? How did the partner of the chairman of the pirate club Jakub Michálek meet him and forget to put it on your list of meetings? So you're bullying other people here that they're supposed to be here, and you're pretending to be anti-corruption - not us, because we don't have any defendants or prosecuted MPs, nor do we have any closed MPs - but here you're always jumping up on the microphone, and yet your president of the pirate club at the Prague City Council has resigned for that reason, so he admitted his guilt, of course, so without putting it, she was behind her back with a guy from JCDecaux who's been tried for corruption and manipulation of public contracts, and she didn't even put it on that list. So you're normal political con men! [[Fun in the right side of the hall.]] That's all. So be quiet, so since you're saying you have some anti-corruption list, put everything in there! And not just what you need. It goes even further, because she was meeting - and how did you get a discount for advertising in the election campaign from JCDecaux's subsidiary of 60 to 75 percent? At the same time, this company faces suspicion of corruption in a court of law. And even one of her managers ran for the Pirates' candidate in Prague, as we know. So, folks, if you're having any talk with me and the SPD, you have plenty of time to go on the microphone now and explain all these things I said, one by one!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u53	It will be followed by factual remarks. First of all, Mr Radek Holomčík. [[Screams from the O.R.]] Everyone, please calm down! Mr Radek Holomčík, then Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u54	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, through the President, to President Okamur, for reaching into his archives and files and pulling out things that have already been argued from different sides and explained. But that's okay. I, Prime Minister, was speaking to the point. Your MP here said he's against decriminalization because it's the greatest evil in the world. And I read a passage from your book The Art of Living, page 42, where you're just writing about who's against decriminalization, basically going to the mob. Those aren't my words. I'm quoting. And if you're saying right now that you were talking about medical cannabis or that you were writing about medical cannabis, that title or chapter is called Soft Drug Legalization. You're talking about criminalization, decriminalization, punishments, drug populism, mob money. But there's not a damn thing about healing. So, please, let's get back to the debate. I wasn't rubbing off on anyone. I simply asked a regular question if you, as chairman, have any opinion on the legalization of soft drugs, which are standard cannabis, so why do your Members propose otherwise. I'm going to explain a simple logical paradox. And the fact that you're here pulling out the files you have on the competition, when someone allows you to be wiped off, that doesn't distract you. And your hysterical reaction just proved how terribly scared you are that your constituents will learn about what you're really saying and doing. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u55	Member Zdeněk Ondráček. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u56	Yes, thank you. I am very pleased that colleague Okamura has his files as well. [[Laughter and revival in the hall.]] It's gonna be all about files soon. So we'll all know about everyone, but it's interesting again, because I have to say that this afternoon's meeting after the commotion last week seemed pretty conservative to me. We've all been sitting, listening, all blown away, I've been worried he's gonna get to the points that the Justice Minister has here, and he's already sitting here. So thank you for putting it back on the good old-fashioned track, for fighting and for having the files here. And you know how I sit next to my colleagues in social democracy, those who, when Mr Okamura started talking, were terrified that it would be about them again. And when they found out it was going to be about another side this time, they were actually very pleased. So, at least the Czech Social Democratic Party, Mr Okamura, through Mr President, has made you happy. But let's get back to it: let's kill the law anyway, and let's move on, let's get the Minister of Justice to his point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u57	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to Mr Holomčík's words through you. Please, Member, don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't say marijuana was the greatest evil in the world. I've only evaluated the pros and cons of your law here. And unfortunately, in bowls of scales, it went against. And that's why I filed a motion to dismiss. I didn't just serve him as a politician, I served him as a medic. And from among the paramedics here we agree that unfortunately your proposal, there are greater risks of abuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u59	Thank you. Mr. Lukáš Černohorský will now appear - sorry, Mr. Vice-President - with priority rights, first of all, as Deputy President of the MP's club. And then it's your turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u60	Thank you. I will speak to the point rather than comment on what Mr Okamura will always read to us here. I didn't want to react factually, because there was a little more gathering. Firstly, through Mr President, to Mrs Maříková. She said that some people under 18 in the Karlovy Vary Region are dating under the influence of narcotics and psychotropic drugs, and those teachers don't know what to do. Well, I'd probably turn to social services employees who should sort things out with their parents. Mr Hájek, through Mr President, has asked here how colleagues from the Mayors and Independents are taking this issue, so I would point out that fellow Member Gazdík, Rakušan, Farský and Mr Pávek have co-signed this proposal, so in this case I suppose they will not support the rejection. They will arrive at the vote, don't worry, through Mr President. There's been a discussion here about the mob. I would go back to history, when alcohol prohibition was introduced in 1919 in the United States, probably most of us know that, with the promise that alcohol would stop drinking completely, that of course health would improve and that all the disorder that was around it would disappear. But the exact opposite happened, as we know around Chicago and Al Capone, so the black market began to develop there. On the contrary, the number of bars that until then were needed black, illegal, depends on you, so at the end of prohibition there were several times as many. There were a lot of criminal groups around alcohol and this prohibition that didn't shield themselves from using violence for the money. So the regulation proposed by a colleague here makes it possible to retreat somewhat from the repression and, on the contrary, remove the power of criminal groups by not supporting them financially to run into the black market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u61	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura will now perform with priority rights. Mr Tomáš Vymazal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, to my book. I'm glad to have another self-proclaimed press spokesperson who joins journalists who likes to explain to me as an author what I actually wrote and what I meant. So I'd take the liberty of explaining it myself. Again, I was referring to legalizing medical, medical marijuana, which I achieved. And I'm sorry I didn't specify that in that paragraph. I've been doing discussions on my books, it's been crowded, and I've been explaining it, those books, there's been a discussion. I'm so glad that... But other than that, I don't want a press spokesperson, okay? Maybe I could, if I could, give you a few grand for it. But you of all people don't have the qualities to do it for me. [[Fun in the hall.]] But I just wanted to say, I'm still... you know, you're... you're... I'll fill out my statement. Because you guys had the motto of how we talked here about the distribution of the crustaceans you're doing, and so did your members, that you're influencing the public selection procedures at the Prague City Council and how you're meeting with those people accused and tried for corruption. I remember your motto: Let us at them! But your voters misconceived that you meant, "Let us go to corrupt politicians." Now we see that you mean: Let us also into the trough! [[Laughs in the hall.]] [[18.00 hours]] But otherwise it was the same scandal that - I mean the meeting with the manager of JCDecaux Tomáš Tenzer, who was tried for corruption and manipulation of public contracts - it was that you did not mention it on your anti-corruption list, because it was not only about Michaela Krausová, your deputy and friend of the chair of the Jakub Michálek MP. The same scandal concerns another pirate representative, so it's not a coincidence, it's your system. And it also applies to the newly elected president of Prague's pirate representatives Viktor Mahrik, who was immediately leaked when Michaela Krausová resigned and joined Viktor Mahrik - unfortunately, not so much the Prague City Council, I don't know if he is still, but I suppose he is - and immediately it became clear that he also met with Tenzer twice, and again he didn't record it in the meeting of lobbyist contacts. So it's your system to trick voters! You just say it and then you don't mention it! You're meeting people accused and tried for corruption, and you're not putting it on that list, and you're just lying to your constituents. And, of course, he put it under pressure on that list, we all know that it's public information, because it blew up on him publicly. That's the style of your politics! And by the way, let's see what happens if the pirát were in government. You are now in the lead of one visible thing, which is the Prague Magistrate. Now we have a crisis, people need money, jobs, and every crown is good for ordinary decent and working people. Yeah, but what did you agree to for the pirate leadership? Prague supported the 120 000 crowns festival called Creative Africa or We are all Africans! [[Laughter and applause.]] Well, those are really priorities! Next you're... A little bit more serious now. Among other things, you approved - people have no money, no deficit budget, and the Prague Council under the leadership of the Pirates approved an individual grant worth more than CZK 5.1 million to a nonprofit organization that takes care of the integration of migrants in quotation marks called the Integration Centre Prague - ICP. So we know what's ahead if you're with the government, what are the priorities? But they're not just two things so you don't say it's a coincidence. See, I'm always putting more of these things in order to know more about it. Here it is: financially you support - CZK 100,000 you have agreed - the Queer Memory Centre, which - and I quote from what you have agreed - "creates a highly professional background for the preservation of the cultural heritage of the Prague queer community" I hope I read well, the pronunciation. 'Cause I don't really get too deep on these issues. No queer, that's the one... or... the one... well... [[Fun.]] Come on... Well, to me it's not... we're in favour of equality. We don't have a problem. I'm just saying, what are the priorities? I'm just saying, let's compare priorities. I have nothing against anyone. Everyone was born somehow, it's okay. I have slanted eyes, too, and there's nothing I can do about it. [[Fun.]] So I just wanted to... And now, at the same time, to put it in context, why I'm talking about it. So Creative Africa or we are all Africans - 120,000 crowns etc., but also under the leadership of the pirát, special barrier-free lines for wheelchair users between the Black Most and the Florenc station were cancelled. And already publicly against it, as you know, many wheelchair users have written that they are in a desperate situation because of it. So wheelchair-free transportation to wheelchair users, you probably felt that there were few of them, because a few dozen wheelchair users turned against it, but it wasn't their fault that they were disabled. They need help. So you're gonna cancel their H1 line to clarify what I'm talking about, and you're also giving money to these things. So I know we're discussing your law on drug legalization here, but I'll admit that it's more important for me that public funds go to disabled people, so that public proceedings, such as the management of the Municipal House in Prague, are not tampered with, and that, in line with the SPD, a decent and working person comes first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u63	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák's point of fact, Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u64	Good afternoon again. I don't need to mention that, in the context of discussing this amendment, I don't understand pulling it out of archives and anals, but there is only one thing I would correct for President Okamur there. He was talking about some rigged public tenders. Are you sure about this, Mr. Chairman? Really? Wasn't that our internal pirate selection procedures? Our internal ones, which we make so that the supervisory boards are really occupied by experts? What other parties are doing this? And I'm not saying that it's happening everywhere - it's happening 100% correctly, mostly it's done correctly, and it's a recommendation from the Republican Bureau, so it's not a commitment. And all the other parties normally nominate who they want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u65	Mr Dominik Feri with a factual remark, then Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to make a suggestion that the House should vote after 19 o'clock until item 47 is discussed. It is a proposal where the adaptation period has already expired. We need to discuss this, it's very important, and today there's a risk that we might not make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u67	Yes, a procedural proposal has been made. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. Please, let us wait a moment. We're ready for the vote. We can vote. I'm hearing a motion to unsubscribe. I've checked you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. Please don't yell at me. There is an agreement from the political grémia that if we have a vote that no one can count on, then we will give a chance to the Members who are watching this meeting from their parliamentary offices to come. I respect this agreement, and I don't intend to change anything about it. We are now ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 163, 85 Members signed up, for 70, against no one. We have adopted the proposal and will continue to act after 19 o'clock. It is now time for Vice-President Tomio Okamura to comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Třešňák asked Mr Třešňák through the President whether the selection procedures for the management of the Municipal House were not the pirate selection procedures. Well, then, honourable Member, you will have to agree with the pirát among you, because I was only quoting the pirate representative and your policy of Jaroslav Němec, who is a representative in Prague 2, who said publicly that she could no longer look at it, because the pirate representative and chairman of the pirate club, the City of Prague's Magistrate, Michaela Krausová, manipulated the tender to the Supervisory Board in the Municipal House. So please agree between you pirát who are manipulating and not manipulating public proceedings. But I really don't know how you do public proceedings. So I can't even respond to it anymore, you have to agree really between you who's manipulating or violating the law or doing some illegal things or not. I don't know, I'm just quoting from public sources what you're sending your own public messages. I'd just like to keep it from stealing from the Prague City Hall, so it's a good place to go, but I'm saying that the priorities are obviously a little different, so hopefully it'll all be okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u69	I will now give the floor to Mr Brázdil, who will probably object to the President's procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u70	Yes, I would like to object to your procedure, because my colleague, Dominik Feri, suggested it for himself and did not say that it should be for two clubs, so it was unvoted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u71	Yes, Mr. Válek with priority rights as chairman of the club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u72	Mea culpa, through the President, my colleague. I should have suggested it. It's for the TOP 09 and the Pirates, and it's point 47, which would be good to vote and sort it out in some way. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Sorry, 46. I think that every time this proposal comes along, the debate gets very short, even that's what makes me suggest it. [[The reaction from the O.R. again.]] 46 and 47, that means we end up at point 47 like Dominik Feri said. Thank you. Is that clear now, the proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u73	Now it's clear. [[Restlessness in the room.]] This means that we should deal with the previous vote. If consent is, I would declare it invalid because all the circumstances that were to be fulfilled were not fulfilled. We will vote on the new proposal as presented by the Chairman of the TOP 09, which means that we will continue the negotiations until we discuss paragraph 47. No one's objecting, so we can do it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 164 registered 88 Members, for 79, against no one. We have accepted the motion. It is now Mr Třešňák's factual point, after which Mr Feri, Mrs Procházková, all the factual points. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u74	I'm sorry, it'll be the last time I react because the discussion was completely off topic. But I actually wanted to thank President Okamur for promoting transparent pirate policy, because everything that was relevant to the selection procedure can be traced in our internal systems, so it can be seen that he is closely monitoring how the Pirates operate. I hope it will be an inspiration for other political parties. And the tender: yes, it was public because it was published, but it was our internal tender, so no one tampered with any orders or tenders at the City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u75	In the meantime, everyone checked out with a factual remark. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal and then Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u76	I believe that this debate will be over, but this is, I think, a beautiful example of what we sometimes disagree on, whether, even during the debate, the President should lead to the issue of those Members who are given priority rights. I think he should, but I understand the discussion is elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u77	Thank you for the comment. I would, of course, apply what Section 59 (1) of the EC Treaty requires me to do. 4, and led the Members to speak, but the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies has exercised his right of priority, and I will leave him in that case according to practice. [[A round of applause for a part of Members in the middle of the hall.]] Mr President of the TOP 09 MP Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Through Mr President, my friends, I do not know if you know what you are applauding, because I will now exercise my priority right. Okay, but I'll really be brief. I am extremely pleased and wanted to thank everyone who discussed cannabis for this. I am particularly able to thank, through Mr President, Patrik Nacher and, through Mr President, Vojtěch Adam, because I think, even though they were different opinions, both of them have caught my attention and I must say that they have forced me to think, to look for some things on the Internet - one does not know the issue. It was a little depressing for me last week, because at the age of 60, I was afraid that I would have to start training to get involved in Parliament's octagon. That doesn't look like it right now. Now all I'm gonna have to do is practice when it comes to stand-up comedy while I'm listening to some of those shows. I don't know if you realize what's been going on for 15 years today, right for an hour: since the death of the Mrázek, Mrázka. He had files, too. He used them. I hope this practice doesn't come around much, much like octagon. My point is, let's go back to cannabis, the merit of the matter is very simple. Many of you here have said so. I am still not quite sure how to vote, but the fact is that the issue of medical cannabis is a very serious issue. It's about the two directions you've been talking about. I am very pleased that all of you who have performed without exception from any side, and now I will allow you, through the President, including Vice-President Okamura, to clearly distinguish treatment cannabis from overuse, abuse or any use of drugs, and that is correct. And now let's look for a way to get this medicinal cannabis to those who need it, if one of these routes is to allow them to grow it. Someone's growing chamomile, somebody's growing other medicinal herbs at home, so somebody's growing cannabis. I'm not sure if it's right or wrong, I don't know. I would like to have the opportunity to discuss this, which is why I do not find it entirely wrong to let the law go on, but I understand those who are clear and will vote against it. That doesn't offend me either, after all, we've already voted for one option that we're going to discuss. But I think the issue is really, really, really serious. And in order to allow for a little relief in the end, I hope I don't offend anyone: if cannabis was a food, we have another food that could fill that quota of 55 percent if we let it go to the gardens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u79	Thank you. And now, Mr TomáTomáš Vy Vymazal is the last to be discussed at this time. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This was an experience, I'd rather take water with me, because it might be necessary. I will try not to delay you for a long time, colleagues and colleagues, but I still have the need to represent those about 300,000 daily users of psychoactive cannabis in the Czech Republic and to convey their opinion. I'm sorry in advance, of course, for not being able to write down all your claims, that's what I'm going to say. I've got four pages, and since I'm a dysgraphist, it didn't fit that much, so I'm gonna try to take it one step at a time and see where we get. But I would still like to submit that I do not in any way mitigate the negative effects of cannabis use. I'm a regular cannabis user myself, and I'm observing some of the negative effects on myself, for example, the drying up in my mouth that was mentioned here. But now, purely for the sake of argument, I'm going to take it very lightly. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] That's right, you're thirsty. I see. [[18.20 hours]] One. This cultivation, according to our proposal, is allegedly contrary to the 1961 Convention, the regime that the Convention foresaw. Well, that's definitely true. At the same time, it is necessary to realize that the convention is interpreted differently according to who we are talking to. For example, engineer Novák of the Inspectorate of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances is not really the authority to interpret international conventions. What is happening in the Czech Republic in this regard is appalling. And have fun with someone who really handled it at that international level, and you'll find out. For example, Canada was mentioned as being harshly criticized. It is strange that, despite being uncompromisingly criticized, the International Narcotics Control Council - INCB - has not touched upon its only instrument to punish the states to which it is blocked from exporting and importing narcotic drugs to Canada, and simply sends them further and further warning letters, just as it does with the Netherlands, which began to break the Convention in 1976. So much for how crucial this convention is in making decisions about rational drug policy. That there are no financial benefits: We clearly declare how much savings our proposal can bring. There are, as far as I know, 2.2 billion on repression, and then just another one on, say, not wasting on drug prevention, which is badly targeted. That, in general, it does not bring anything positive: I think that the fundamental thing that this brings in the positive is actually respect for the laws. Today, the 300,000 people I was talking about just despise the addictive substance law because it's written wrong. If it was written well, they could respect it, and they could take away the fact that they might want to respect other laws. That's how you teach them the exact opposite. Because of ten percent of patients we are said to be dealing with the self-growing of medicinal cannabis: First of all, our proposal does not address cannabis cultivation for therapeutic use, because it is simply cannabis grown on the basis of a license issued by the SÚKL. But since we're talking about the percentage that it applies to, in the meantime, I've found that, for example, multiple sclerosis - and that's just one infirmity out of many that can be solved with cannabis - is 22,000 people in our country. Right now, how many of these official patients do we have? About eleven hundred? Eleven hundred - where do you see the ten percent? I absolutely don't understand. What I see is that you haven't even crossed out yet, just the level of how much cannabis you should deliver to people. Horrible, that kind of argument. Free handover versus your own need: Yes, it sounds very strange. I see or know a lot of people who grow cannabis, then maybe they do the ointment and give it to their grandmother. Then we can talk about the need for the grandmother. At the same time, Grandma asks the man to give her the ointment. So maybe now it's his need, too, not if he wants to satisfy his grandmother's request? I don't know, maybe I'm talking. But really it was meant that we wanted people to be able to donate cannabis ointments and stuff like that, and, of course, so they could donate that 30-gram bag. After all, when you hand your friend a burning cigarette today - 0.7 grams - you're dealing with distribution under the penal code. So that's something we wanted to deal with, because it doesn't feel right for people to end up in prison for handing someone this small amount of cannabis. I think we're just saying that there's a lot of people who use cannabis here, and they feel like it's gonna have a therapeutic effect on them. All of you here with some medical education - which I may not be at all - surely you know that the declared therapeutic effects of cannabis are overvalued. It's said there's just more of them than there really can be. It's not such a miracle herb. It's a great herb, but it's not miraculous. And the fact that people think it's gonna help them do anything, and then they try to use it for that purpose is one thing. And then you let these people go to jail, or you put them on trial, where they start defending themselves by using cannabis, and that's actually what they do in the media, so that's another thing. And it's really not our fault that cannabis has such a good advertising that he's getting through criminal proceedings. Who will interpret the avoidance of access: The Ministry will write a decree. That's what it was meant to be, and I think we're predicting it in the explanatory statement. So much for that. That there was no registration at all: We were talking with the Ministry of Health and Minister Vojtěch at that time and he brought us a paper that the Ministry did not want it. He doesn't want registration because he doesn't have a way to control how many people have registered properly, where they grow and so on. So we reached out to him, and we didn't register. I'm definitely not defending myself from her. I think a lot of those 300,000 people would welcome her. We're at the end of the first page. Second: Uruguay is supposedly a smuggler's paradise because cannabis was legalized there. Well, it's exactly the opposite. Uruguay was a paradise for smugglers because cannabis was smuggled through Uruguay and not just into Paraguay, and their response was - let's legalize the grass because this is unbearable. Cause and effect are often mistaken here. Statistics of persons seeking help are distorted: because when cannabis is legal or socially tolerated, more people are willing to admit that they had some special experience after it. When cannabis is severely punished, people will argue that all their weird experiences were from alcohol. What's also true is that all the things you listed as the side effects of cannabis or the negative effects of cannabis can also be a negative effect of alcohol. For example, schizophrenia: It has been said that it triggers, to some extent, schizophrenia in young people or adults. Schizophrenia is still around one percent of the population. Well, normally, look up the statistics. One percent, whatever happens. What's it gonna be? Maybe some people are predisposed to it, and what's it gonna do to them? If it's stress, if it's alcohol, if it's weed, it doesn't matter, it just comes sooner or later. Anyway, we need to offer them help, not punish them. I'll have a drink, if you don't mind. [[He's drinking.]] Pavel Kuřátko: When I was with my colleague Ondráček in Valdice, I had a good time with Mr. Kuřátk, too, and he told me, among other things, that he didn't want a grown man to smoke a joint and just smoke it, he didn't have anything. That he just doesn't want people to be enslaved to ruin their lives. So where's his claim that everyone ends up as a macaque? I don't know, don't be mad at me, but that's not what this guy's saying. Or at least not to me. What is given is that legalization will lead to the cultivation of low-potent cannabis: this is a fundamental question. So there you have to think about how it came out that people even had a tendency to breed that high-potent cannabis. I hope the MP listens to me. That would be great if he knew next time. It was due to the fact that smugglers or dealers - I don't know what you want to call them - wanted to put as much cannabis in as little space as possible, let's say as much value as possible in as little space as possible. Thus they cultivated more potent cannabis, which was then enough to sell a smaller volume and the customer was satisfied. So if we allow a trafficker like this to feel safe when he takes it somewhere - for example, we legalize the cannabis market, which would be great - just take the poison that the potential - not that it will fall everywhere - but the diversity in the market will definitely increase. I guarantee it. [[18.30 hours]] You don't want to make a deal: that was a good point, yeah. You don't want to make a deal. That's exactly the problem. In fact, all the 11 to 13,000, or sorry, 11 to 14,000 - as it was - teenagers who are at a significant risk of addiction are the result of the current drug policy. The pirát didn't make that. It didn't make legalization. This was produced by the current set-up repression, or she let it happen. Judge for yourself how far it is appropriate to stay in the current trend and just keep adding more money to the DEA, buying them better guns, closing more people, when in the end there will still be more juveniles. I don't think it makes sense. Such reasoning: If I grow cannabis now, I mean, I'm in danger of two to five years for a quantity. If I grow at a time when it's legal in five plants, I'm safe. What motivation do I have for growing more than five plants when it's legal? Well, minimal, isn't it? Besides, if I grow five or ten plants today, the punishment is roughly the same. And that is exactly why legal regulation should work and why it also works in the world. That's how we got to the end of the other side. Thank you for your attention, because we're going a little further. Now, I've put a few things out here that I agree with from what was said here. For example, I have already listed two of them, so here is the third: yes, alcohol is worse, that is what Mr Novák said here. And I say, and yet you're not going to ban him. And if you wanted to, I'd be against it, because I know prohibition is just worse than the current health impact that alcohol has on us, and that's really the most harmful drug in our society right now. Even the cigarettes you mentioned, through Mr President, Mr Member, are simply more addictive than alcohol, yes. After all, they say that they are roughly addictive as meth - few people know, few say. But they certainly don't have as much impact as alcohol in the short term, do they? They're gonna take your lungs away for a long time. The number of people faced with so-called problem addiction is not even recorded for cannabis. What's it gonna be? I asked - there's no point in registering it because it's such a rare phenomenon that it just doesn't make sense to watch. By the way, about the statistics we're getting from: the National Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addiction. If we don't have it written in the explanatory memorandum, it's our fault, definitely. But the statistics are from over there, and you've been drawing from there, at least I've recognized the numbers. So I think you must have met the same numbers I was saying, but it's okay. And we're on the last page, and there's not much left, so you'll be set free in no time. Conventions, international conventions need modernisation: I totally agree with that. I'd just like to say to you, Mr. Ambassador, that I'm pretty sure the modernization will take place on the Canadian road rather than the one you're sketching here. I also agree with Mr Holík that we need the opportunity to be checked by the state-controlled institution of cannabis. I want to grow cannabis, bring it somewhere, and there's someone taking a sample, they say, "You've got mold in it, so burn it, or he'll find pesticides, so don't smoke it, or he'll say, "It's okay." And all this isn't possible until it's illegal. It just isn't. And that's exactly the same thing as having a slivovitz burned down in a distillery that's surrounded or sealed by a firing machine. [[Voice from the diaper: Distillation device.]] Thank you, the distillation machine. That's right. Well, that's all I wanted to do. So now, Mr President, I would like to propose that this item be interrupted by the end of the discussion of the House press 864 in the third reading, so that we have this chassis, so I will say, which obviously does not have a chance to survive today, so that we have it hidden in case the discussion of the House press 864 did not turn out as we would like, for example, that it would crash somewhere along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u81	Have a good evening. Well, that's a procedural proposal, so we're gonna have to vote immediately. Then I'll call the Members to the ballroom. [[Sounds like a gong.]] And I will read again what Mr Tomáš Vymazal proposes for the plaintiffs. Mr Tomáš Vymazal has proposed the suspension of this press until the press hearing 864 at the third reading. So we know what we're voting on. [[Sounds like a gong.]] So I'm gonna check you out at last, and I thought somebody was gonna knock, and I still haven't knocked. So I'll check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. [[Sounds like a gong.]] We're in enough quantity here, so I'm taking the vote. Who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against interruption? Voting order number 165: 90 Members registered, for 34, against 45. The motion for an interruption has been rejected. Now I have some factual points here. First of all, Mr David Kasal will speak and then Mr Lubomír Španěl will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u82	Thank you. The last reaction to the last speech for the speaker, through the President. I'm really sorry, but if anyone wants to defend the law that way, it was a complete awakening for me. And I'm gonna say, you really forgot about the big part of the kids. I can see them, which I have in the department, and I forgot to talk about when they give birth and solve addictive newborns in the previous performance. And that's not what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u83	Now a factual point, Mr Lubomír Španěl, and Mr Jan Birke will be prepared. We're still de facto on the move.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't really want to get out, but after the heated debate, I can't do it here. I certainly wouldn't be in favour of raising or expanding that amount of self-grownness. Today, self - cultivators can grow five plants. I know most people put on more, but that's not the point. The point is, all this talk about giving it away to their poor sick grandmother, that's just a game of emotion, that's not really true. Well, I was gonna say that I'm afraid of it because it's gonna get pretty messed up, and I've got a comparison like that with alcohol. Today alcohol manufacturers are under very strict supervision, such as customs. Only once we underestimated it, there was a huge methanol affair, a lot of dead. You see how easy it is. That's exactly what happens when he can grow any amount at home. I would have imagined it that way - because I have nothing against medical cannabis, I myself was looking for cancer for my granddaughter, because she said it was supposed to help her. [[18.40 hours]] But still... Because maybe you can't grow tobacco like that on your own. Why could cannabis not be grown? For example, certain private firms licensed, with strict licenses, with strict supervision, where an official would have estimated by the amount planted what the crop would be. And just get the whole thing under control. It wouldn't take just one company to create a competitive environment. [[Attention on time.]] So even the price... That's enough. I think I said what I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u85	Mr Jan Birke, Mr Radek Holomčík, will now make a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President. I would like, by your means, Mr Vice-President, to the petitioner: I have listened very carefully to you, exactly your argument, and you have rightly argued as a translator. However, the only thing I missed a little bit is the habit. I was quite surprised to hear you say - and again - that cannabis or cannabis smoking at all is not an addictive substance, if I understood correctly. [[The petitioner's reaction.]] No. I feel like we all understood that she wasn't addictive. I don't know, maybe I was in another room. And if I misunderstand, I'm sorry. However, I just want to say that as I was speaking from the point of view of smoking, I have a classmate who is 51 years old and smokes weed, perhaps since I've known him. Well, I'll bring you a photograph of him sometime, what an old man looks like when he's 51. Today I have to say that he is so addicted to cannabis smoking that he simply cannot exist without it. It can't exist! So I don't know. Either I apologize to you, Mr. Speaker, by your means, that I have misheard, and please take it this way, or I don't understand it then. Because I'm actually convinced, and the doctors here nod at me that it's just that cannabis is an addictive substance, of course, if it inhales, it means it smokes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u87	Mr Radek Holomčík will now appear. Still factual points. And Mr. Vojtěch Pikal, Mr. Tomáš Vymazal, Mr. Zuzana Majerová, will be prepared. All factual points. Please, you have the floor. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u88	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I don't want to make this debate any more dramatic. But there was one thing from a fellow Španěl that we have been fighting here unsuccessfully for a slightly more sensible approach in relation to the growing burning, which simply appears. Please, the methanol affair had nothing to do with whether alcohol was legal or illegal or where it was done. That was an affair based on the fact that a group with the forgiveness of scumbags wanted to make as much money as possible in any way possible. This has nothing to do with the legality of alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u89	Another de facto Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal and Mr Tomáš Vymazal will be prepared. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u90	Thank you for the floor. So I have no deep experience with addictive substances. I don't smoke, I don't drink coffee. However, I feel obliged to respond to the two things that have been said here, namely that you can grow tobacco and, on the contrary, the five flowers are currently illegal. So just to make the truth sound. Someone will correct me, who has deeper experience growing one or the other. And then I wanted to respond to one more thing that we're talking about some kind of addiction where people can't work without some drug after that, but I know a lot of people who can't work without cigarettes that can't work without alcohol that can't work without morning coffee. And I see it as just as serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u91	Now on the point of fact for plaintiff TomáTomáš Vy Vymazal. Your two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u92	Thank you for the floor. Just so I can explain. At first I said that cigarettes, that the addictiveness of cigarettes is compared to the addictiveness of meth. That's one thing. And then I said that, in contrast to the meth mentioned, the National Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addiction doesn't even record the number of really troubled cannabis addicts. This does not say that there is no dependence on cannabis. Of course it exists. But it's just a question of whether to even say addiction. Maybe it's compulsive behavior. I don't know. I don't want to get into this. But it certainly wasn't meant to be addictive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u93	I would now ask Mrs Zuzana Majerová to make a point of fact and Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u94	Good afternoon. I only took the de facto one to set things straight here. Why do I want to set them straight? Because I know quite a lot about this issue, not only because I worked at the Sanani Center in the past, but my brother Dušan Dvořák is imprisoned for six years for treating people, and he is one of the best adictologists ever, in the Czech Republic anyway. So I'm just going to give you these examples of the controversial introduction of cannabis as a big bogeyman. As far as addictiveness is concerned, addictiveness is psychological and physical. Physical addictiveness is absolutely none of cannabis, unlike, for example, meth and a lot of other drugs. Habitat can be psychological, but it can only occur after long-term, several years of use. There is no scientific study or research that explicitly describes the addiction. The strongest substance is nicotine. So it's about the addictive stuff. Next thing. It has been repeatedly scientifically proven that cannabis and marijuana do not lead its users to switch to anything harder. It's called a precursors. So it's been repeatedly refuted, marijuana isn't a precursors to keep going. As for... [[Attention on time.]] As for hallucinations...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u95	Time, Madame. I beg you to comply with the Rules of Procedure. But you can sign up because there's a Mr. Roman Onderka behind you. So, of course, I'm giving positive advice because I'm the only one who sees it on the screen, the actual notes. Two minutes is enough and one button. Well, you've already pressed it. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But now I feel a little bad. I think an angry lady... I don't know anything worse. I'd prefer a colleague to finish telling us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u97	We have gentlemen here. Madam, you have the floor. And I'll just point out that there's a screen, two minutes. And if you'd like to sign in again, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u98	I think I've had enough. And I thank the foreman here for allowing this to be done. As far as hallucinations are concerned, hallucinations occur in types of drugs called opioids. Those are hard drugs. For classical cannabis or marijuana, hallucinations do not arise. If anyone claims to be developing, then he didn't have classical marijuana and cannabis, but he had something completely different in it because there is a de facto impossibility of hallucination. Hallucinations occur in LSD and other opioids. So it's the hallucinations. It's nonsens. There was also talk about the fact that, with regard to neighbouring states and the approach of Europe etc., etc., on the contrary, European laws and the approach of neighbouring states are far more benevolent than the Czech Republic's approach. So we have a much bigger debt in this one. And research as such to conclude: my brother consulted and conducted... and more or less Professor Hanuš of Israel, who is a respected expert, because in Israel it is commonly available in pharmacies and wherever you want to be used, so Professor Hanuš received the award of Olomouc a few years ago. As for the share of THC, CBD and CBD pharmaceuticals, this inspired my brother, who now sits in prison for six years for cannabis treatment. So I'd end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u99	Now, then, Mr Roman Onderka. You've got two whole minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I understand that there are many doctors in this room, doctors, people who have met with a drug addiction who, from experience, know drugs, whether soft or hard, some have used them until now, as I have learned from the petitioner. Anyway, I don't want to get into this type of professional discussion. I just want to say it's a matter of opinion. Pirate colleagues are somehow drawing us closer to the current situation, to suppressing crime in a relationship such as examples from the period of prohibition in the United States, etc. If I had to go completely hard into this argument, I would have to say - well, let's legalize part of prostitution in the Czech Republic, let's legalize part of arms sales etc. And here are the people who are okay with it, and there are the Members who are bothered by it. And I am one of the MPs who does not want drugs in the Czech Republic, does not want to legalize prostitution and does not want to legalize the sale of illegal weapons. So let us finally vote and see the will of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u101	Well, you're gonna have to wait a little while longer with that vote, Mr. Ambassador, because your performance has raised three factual points, you wouldn't say. So now Mr. Milan Brázdil, Chairman of STAN Vít Rakušan, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. All right, Congressman, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u102	Thank you for the floor. Many have performed, allow me too, for a very short time. Colleagues, colleagues, do we, as homo sapiens, ever claim to be intoxicated? Of course we have music, love, drums, we can be intoxicated, but please, we shouldn't hurt each other. And when we were here... Doctors, how do you feel about this? I've been in an ambulance for 29 years, I've been in an ambulance for 11 years. You can't imagine what it does to people, including alcohol, including everything! What makes us "nehomo sapiens." That's why I'm not gonna raise my hand, and I'm gonna love it if you guys are gonna kill it at first reading, and we're gonna go to the medical guy who helps but doesn't make people human.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u103	Now Chairman of STAN Vít Rakušan, the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared. Prime Minister, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u104	I thank you for your word, and I apologize to all those who have already raised their eyes to the point that the debate is stretching. I'm performing for the first time, and I promise you, no matter what happens. Just one quick note. The debate is a little bogus about one thing. Here, it is as if those who oppose marijuana, those who are against it, those who point out how marijuana can harm, how it destroys young lives, etc. But that's not what we're talking about here. We're talking about state-controlled hypocrisy, where something is and something isn't, we're talking about a situation where something is criminalized and something isn't criminalized in this matter, and we're also talking about it being in our country - and here I would trust the doctor, through you, what it does to people, etc. I've seen these people, too, and it's really not a good look, whatever drug it is, whatever alcohol it is, which is also a drug. But we as the Czech Republic in this legal regulation that we have belong among the countries in Europe to those where young people consume almost the most marijuana! So I'm asking if there's a causal link to any legal modification or other phenomena in our society that would lead young people in a different direction than to be addicted to drugs. That's why I say - this is the removal of state-controlled hypocrisy. I am in favour of discussing this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and on the contrary, some studies show that the countries where legislation has been liberalized in relation to light drugs and that it is precisely that people can grow marijuana themselves in their own gardens, on the contrary, the numbers of people belonging to the problem group have fallen significantly. There's no correlation between rigor and liberalization. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u105	Mr Rostislav Vyzula, Member of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, will now make a point of fact. Jana Černochová, Mrs Procházková. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u106	Thank you. I would just like to point out, following my previous appearance, that the sale of weapons is legal and is properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u107	Mr Rostislav Vyzula will now speak to the facts and prepare Jana Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just really short, because a lot has been said here, and the debate is getting longer. I understand, of course, that this is a popular subject, but it seems more like an election cabaret to me. However, if you want to discuss it - I understand, for example, Mr Dominik Feri, that we have the right to discuss it - we can discuss it within the framework of the amendment of the law, House press 864. However, some of the things that have been said here just don't let me just sit here. What the Pirate Party is doing here is fake news level. That's the problem that we have in society right now, and that's how it is. And only one example for all in terms of cannabis and addiction. I quickly got out of PubMed, it's a database, a global database that collects all medical research, it's sponsored and led from the United States, and I've introduced these two data on cannabis and editions. And just to put it right, please: I found 4 601 results, where there are studies that show that cannabis is addictive. It's also a review, so there are other studies, please. So let's not have the company at least in this matter, we have to tell each other the truth. It's a dangerous thing, because young people then switch to another drug. And if you want to keep discussing this, please, but almost everything has been said. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u109	So now, Mrs Jana Černochová's factual point and Mrs Věra Procházková will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u110	Thank you. I think it is a pity that the Czech Republic is in the situation in which it is - not only the Czech Republic - in connection with the covid, because this debate would certainly belong to some expert seminar, because, of course, I, as mayor of Prague 2, in various preventive programs, consult these things with experts and really what Zuzana said here, or partly what the author said here, I also heard. So I'm really not an expert on this subject, but I'm sure the draftsman here has tried to interrupt that point just for the reason that we can discuss this matter with the experts, so that you can have your comments there, the questions answered. I don't understand why this part didn't vote to interrupt that point when my colleague here suggested it - your questions could have been answered. [[points to YES Members in the central part of the hall]] About what Mr. Onderka said here. After all, they were representatives of social democracy, specifically Deputy Minister Hulínský, and I think that perhaps also Deputy Minister Dolínek, who proposed a law on the regulation of prostitution. So did my colleague Pikal - weapons, all weaponry is regulated, that's what the law is for. So what has been said here does not apply in either of these cases, Mr colleague, through the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u111	Mrs Věra Procházková will now speak to the facts and prepare Mr Roman Onderka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u112	Thank you for the floor. As a doctor working in an ambulance to treat pain using and recommending marijuana as a cure, of course, I would be for that. But I have a big problem with what is allowed today: to grow a plant at home and smoke it yourself or do what you want with it. [[The noise in the hall.]] But it can't be distributed. And that's what bothers me. Here's what's bothering me. I have to say, this isn't being followed, it's a common matter, and it bothers me about your proposal that you want to distribute it. That really bothers me, because I'd be in favor of everyone growing it at home. And I really don't like the fact that he can give it back to anyone, so I can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u113	Mr Roman Onderka, and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, will be prepared for the factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Through you, to my colleague Pikal and my colleague Černochová. Let's hear each other out. I was talking about illegal weapons because in the Czech Republic, you have a short ball gun for your personal protection or your property, so you can buy it, but you can't buy a machine gun. [[Here.]] Better said, you'll buy it, but for one shot, not for doses. That's just the way it is. As with drugs today, you have that you can grow five plants, not that, according to the pirát' design, you make a hundred square meters and you make a farm at home. That's the basic difference. And if my colleagues, Dolínek, and I don't care who from social democracy, want to do some things that I don't agree with, just take another look at the record. I was saying my opinion, I simply disagree that we should legalize more sales at the current moment of illegal weapons, and I do not want to grow or distribute more or sell drugs than for health reasons, as set up in the legislation today, I am not even talking about prostitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u115	Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President of the House, will now speak on the point of fact and prepare, still factual, for the plaintiff Tomáš Vymazal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u116	Thank you. So I'm going to have to do it again, it's not legal to grow cannabis at the moment. There's some kind of methodology where we close our eyes, but that's not legal at the moment, which means if a neighbor turns you in that you're growing, you can go to jail. Period. That's the current situation. The fact that it is not in reality and that we are hypocritically acting in a completely different way is precisely what we want to deal with with, for example, this bill proposal. About the other thing. In fact, there was a good comparison between a machine gun and a regular gun. There is the issue of danger, social hazard and scope. According to studies and information that we have scientifically available, cannabis is more comparable to alcohol and tobacco, which are legal matters than drugs, which should, of course, remain illegal, whose distribution, production and everything else should continue to be illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u117	Mr Tomáš Vymazal will now appear, and Mrs Věra Procházková will prepare herself, and now you are finished. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u118	Thank you for the floor. I'm terribly sorry, I really didn't want to perform, but these are fake news like on the air, what Mr. Onderka showed here. Paragraph 283 of the Penal Code, unauthorized production and other handling: this is the case, according to our criminal repression, according to our prosecutors and according to our courts, when you start drying the plant. The drying said it's a different loading and the production. And at that point, no matter what the quantity, it's a criminal penalty you're in danger of. In addition to the 285 penal code, illegal planting of plants containing narcotic or psychotropic substances: there is indeed a small amount, there you could only get a fine of 20,000, in quotation marks only - they will seize your material and you will get 20,000 fines for growing something on your sore back. [[paragraph]] But at least you wouldn't go to jail. But once you dry it off, they normally want to lock you up. This is pure truth. People need to hear this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u119	Now a factual point, Mr Roman Onderka, so far a final point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask the translator to follow me. Colleague, please, smoke a little less and respect my opinion, as I respect yours. I didn't say your opinions were fake news. Respect your colleagues and their views and stop showing off in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u121	At this point, I have one final point in fact, so I have here with priority the President of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, and Mrs Olga Richterová at the same time. So the President of the Jakub Michálek Club will have priority rights and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u122	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues. Let me briefly respond to your speech, Mr President, which you had regarding the Pirate Party, and it was that you pulled out the file and recapitulated everything that was written about the pirát on Parliamentary Sheets and other similar media, which was probably processed by Mr Večerníček or another political worker. We meet quite often together for coffee in your study, so of course you could tell me and you could have explained it and there was no need to go back to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but some of the things you said here I think deserve a correction. First of all, you were talking about the case that some of our members were supposedly meeting with a criminally prosecuted person. I wanted to tell you that he's a man who's never been convicted, and he's even been acquitted. This means, please take a look at the judgment of the District Court of Prague 1, file number 6T38/2018, it is an exonerating judgment. He's an innocent man, so if you want to talk about him here, I'm begging you, because you claim to be decent people to refer to him as an innocent person who's been acquitted and not accuse our members of meeting someone who's been acquitted. Secondly, you have talked about our tender procedures, which we are doing on various professional functions in the public administration, whether they are different supervisory boards and similar professional functions. We make them ourselves because we have decided to do so in contrast to other political parties. And in the matter you criticised, the tender procedure was repeated and it was examined by our arbitration panel, which is impartial, elected by the member base, with the conclusion that there was no manipulation. So I would like to ask you not to draw your information from Parliamentary Leaves and believe everything you read on Parliamentary Leaves. On the other hand, you said that you were condemning that the capital of Prague was giving money to integrate migrants. Let me ask you this: are you opposed to the integration of migrants? You want unintegrated migrants here to radicalize themselves? [[raised voice]] To have terrorist attacks here? So I don't really think anybody can criticize this thing. We can talk about whether the amount is correctly used for specific projects, whether they have efficiency and so on, that is a legitimate discussion, but the very fact that we are trying not to be advised by immigrants here, I think it is quite appropriate, and Prague is doing very well because of this. Then you criticized that Prague is giving money to Africa, to projects related to Africa, CZK 120,000, which is in the budget of the capital city of Prague about CZK 87 billion, so it is a priority. At the same time, I think that in a situation where everyone is telling us that the biggest investment opportunities for entrepreneurs in the decades to come will be in Africa, because there is a new billion people growing there who will need the quality of life at the same level that our entrepreneurs, our suppliers are able to satisfy, it is right that we should build a relationship in this area and have a chance to succeed in this matter, because of course there will be future prosperity and prosperity if we take this opportunity. And I thought that you of all people who planned your trip to Afghanistan to establish relationships in order to benefit Czech entrepreneurs were aware of this very well. I would like to conclude by saying that if you have any issues concerning the functioning of the capital city of Prague, please solve them on the ground of the capital city of Prague, at its council. I know you don't have room there as representatives because you didn't beat the 5% clause, with the result of 3.54% of the votes the Pražan expressed to you, but you can express yourself as a citizen at the meeting of the Prague Council, your people can express themselves there, and there is a space where you can solve Prague's problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u123	Now, with a factual remark from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u124	Thank you. I would like to underline the conclusion of my previous speaker's performance. We are repeatedly discussing matters of the capital city of Prague here. It's not just this point. I would ask everyone who likes it so much and is interested in finding another meeting hall, I think it is Mariánské náměstí, where they sit, and there they dealt with it and did not burden the municipal policy in Prague - with all due respect for the municipal policy of Prague - the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And now for the bill itself. I am signed among the petitioners, I consider him quite moderate, not revolutionary, quite reasonable. But I would like to, because I have recently had a number of negotiations with experts who are struggling with habits to give more attention, if possible, and much greater than today, to the drug that is causing the biggest problems in the Czech Republic. It's a legal drug, and it's alcohol. To be aware of that. And here in such a basically small change of law, there was such a passionate debate - why not, I say why not - but to remember that the biggest problems in Czech society are caused by a legal drug called alcohol.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u125	Now, the final performance, and this is Mrs Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u126	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. I'd like to underline one thing. This is where we talk about what adults are supposed to be allowed to do, all of us. I'm not one of those people who has any experience with addictive substances except a little alcohol, I'm not the type. But I care about freedom. I also care about keeping us in harmony as a society. In line with what is common, what is perceived as a normal part of life, and that it has a reflection in the laws. And what's going on here is trying to reconcile a normal life experience with - a relatively new one for our culture - an addictive substance, but not a whole new one, and how abused it is to take that alcohol many times. And since the second thing besides the freedom of mind that has brought me into politics are facts and efforts to make decisions not on the basis of our particular impressions, but on the basis of the more general recommendations and the more general experience they have in facts, in surveys, in studies, so I want to ask you: Please, not for the sake of people like me who are not dealing with addictive substances, but for people like us all who are dealing with the harmony of the whole society, that we work so that the laws are something that should be observed, because it corresponds to how we normally live and operate, so I ask you to think about the proposed bill. To avoid such a great abyss between generations. Thank you in advance for your consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u127	Now on the point of fact or in the debate? It's a normal debate, so it's MP Jaroslav Foldyna. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u128	So we're moving and moving and moving. So now we're going to liberalize access to drugs, today to marijuana, and in three years it's going to be cocaine, in four years it's going to be other drugs, and the company is developing as it develops. We are witnessing constant violence under the influence of psychotropic substances. And we say we don't know what to do with it. Because we're humane, we'll give them four years instead of giving them 14 years and bread and water! být unlearn them. We don't punish dealers in a frightening way because we're humane! Because it's moving around all the time. And who's gonna bring the life of the cop who ran over her with that drugged woman's car? Who's gonna give her her life back? Are these your liberalizations where society is moving? I don't want it! I'll be old! Follow the old standards. I don't want to liberalize drugs. We're good with the alcohol we have. The world has evolved here, and we're gonna move it on to drugs. And in four years, we'll move him to cocaine. And in the next few years, more drugs. No, I refuse! I reject it hard! The company pays for impeccable liberalisation. It's called democratisation. And how many are dead of your democratization and liberalization? How many unfortunate people are there already? Do you like it? Sure! You like it. Come to the settlement in northern Bohemia! Look at those people who can't deal with it! Their intelligence isn't enough. And that's not pejorative, that's just right. Those people were born that way, and now poor people are falling into drugs. Look at these guys from the Romani ghettos they're on, the meth they're on, their lives are ruined. And we're gonna keep moving things around. Let's punish them hard! Let's punish them hard when they cross these standards or they'll eat us up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u129	Now two factual points. The first is Mr Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President of the House, and then Mr Lubomír Španěl. So, Vice-President, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u130	Thank you. I'll be short. I just want to say that the causal link, in my opinion, is the opposite, that people are unhappy, and that's why they take drugs or drink alcohol. Not that they take drugs or drink alcohol, and then they're unhappy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u131	Now, MP Lubomír Španěl, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I understand you all want to go home, I won't delay it either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u133	We have one more press. [[- Excuse me?]] That we still have one more press, so it won't be that fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u134	I just want to say, why don't you and I think about where we'd rather buy vaccines. The Maďar know what to do, we're walking around. I think people are currently worried about things other than legalizing 100 square meters of marijuana. So please, let's go to the next press, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u135	Now it's still factual. Well, you just got beat by another colleague. I'm sorry, it came up in parallel somehow. Mr Petr Třešňák, then. Jan Bartošek, then, will be right away. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u136	Have a nice evening, then. I'm back to discussing the social dangers of marijuana versus alcohol. I will be mostly responding to Mr Foldyna. When we realize that there are 600 fatal accidents per year on the roads, about a hundred of them are caused by the influence of alcohol. Are we talking about banning cars, motorcycles? Or is it the alcohol that is really the most socially dangerous? No, instead, we're talking about what excise duty is and how much goes into the state register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u137	Now, on the factual note, three applications. So I'll recap, because we don't see it on the screen. So, Mr Jan Bartošek, Mr Aleš Juchelka and Mrs Hana Aulická. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u138	Thank you. Apparently, some of you know that I worked as a therapist with drug addicts, and I want to say one thing. These substances, including marijuana, regardless of alcohol and others, have one dangerous quality, and that is that they take one's freedom of decision-making when they get overused. When we talk about medical cannabis, of course there are two options. Either we say: Everyone at home grow some amount, and this discussion is completely legitimate, I am glad for it. But I'm a supporter of that for myself. that medicinal cannabis actually treats, but it should be distributed by the state on the basis of clearly defined rules, measuring the amount of active substances, and basically it's about you who grow marijuana, you know that it's not a plant like a plant. Of course, the amount of psychoactive substances is changing. This means that I am convinced that these are also things that should be subject to laboratory examination, let whoever buys drugs containing THC know what the amount or the active substances are. This means that I am in favour of the fact that this should really be a matter for the state, the control of these medicines, not free cultivation. I admit, I'm influenced by my previous work experience. [[19.20 hours]] And one last thing at a time. The moment you think again about which nonprofits you take money from, and you say that nonprofits are harmful, so remember that a number of services that work in the field of prevention are really from the nonprofit sector. And so if you decide, if necessary, to go this way, I believe that there should be a large number or support for non-profit prevention organisations, because we are not touching something that is harmless. We're talking about substances that can really destroy people's lives in the moment when someone doesn't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u139	Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, on the point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u140	I would just briefly like to respond to Mrs Olga Richterová through you, my honored colleague, for refusing to lead the debate in the spirit that whoever approves this law is free-minded, and whoever opposes this law is not so free-minded. And I also reject the thesis that, actually, when it happens in that company, let's just approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u141	Now, on the point of fact, so far, the last one registered - Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't mean to, I had to. Anyway, that last performance of my fellow Pirates, that really pissed me off! You know, I've been working at Masaryk Hospital for a while, and when we did the autopsy reports or when the cops arrested, you know what was horrible to me? That alcohol became the domain of older years and drugs, especially marijuana and meth, were a phenomenon in 99 percent of the year since the 1990s. And I can tell you that then the unhappy parents or grandmothers and grandfathers called, who then, of course, had this examination and other things to pay for. And I'm very sad that I, too, have to be here at my age and actually share the support of these matters. I must say for me: shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u143	I'll look around the O.R. Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u144	Thank you. Here they have been mentioned - I think that Mr Foldyna - the problems of, say, Romani or Gypsy children in the north, when they are slipping just to use addictive substances, if you want grass or something else. You mentioned, fellow pirát, that they are slipping to it precisely because they are unhappy, but shouldn't our efforts be to find for them a suitable program so that they are not unhappy? So you don't have to give them the psychotropic drug and then ruin their lives?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-26-ps2017-079-04-007-046.u145	Now, I'm gonna look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is checking in. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there is any interest in final words. The plaintiff? The rapporteur? [[No.]] Neither is the plaintiff. So we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. I'm gonna put you on the line first, and I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with your voting cards again. So we're going to vote on a motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 166, 89 Members voted in favour of 55, against 27. The motion to dismiss has been accepted. So this concludes the discussion of this proposal. So now we have one more press and it is
