ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of some other laws, as amended /German press 1170/ - third reading I would ask that the Vice Prime Minister, who apologized to me a moment ago, take his place at the rapporteur's table, and he is back, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the constitutionally-legal committee, and this is Mr Marek Benda. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 1170/2, which was delivered on 26 March 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 1170/3. I ask if the Minister, as the appellant, wants to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to briefly introduce for the purposes of the third reading a government bill on elections to Parliament. It was processed as a response to the Constitutional Court's finding, where the adjustment of voting votes to mandates was abolished. We have submitted the proposal in two options. The Constitutional Legal Committee adopted a comprehensive amendment. A number of other amendments were made at the second reading, which were discussed by the Guarantee Committee and the procedure was approved. I can say for myself that I am prepared, of course, to comment on each proposal and to deliver the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Does the rapporteur give priority to the debate? No. So Vice-President Pikal with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm a little surprised no one's reporting for the debate. I didn't want to report with priority rights, but it looks like no one's checking in. I wanted to speak several times on the various topics and the various amendments tabled here. If no one checks in, I'm gonna have to take it in one line, which I don't think is the best way to understand. However, first in general. I would like to thank everyone who was involved in the work and discussion of this law, because it was important that we manage to discuss it on time. After all, we are also meeting here today at an emergency meeting. It is a law that not only affects our future functioning in this Chamber of Deputies, and thus the functioning within the government of this country, within the lives of all, but it is also important that it be adopted with the agreement of both chambers, because it is a law under constitutional Article 40, so it must have the agreement of both chambers, on the exact wording. Therefore, he had to be given sufficient care, and the negotiations had to take place across the chambers. [[10.30 hours]] In general, it seems that we have reached a consensus that is particularly far more proportional than the previous system. In the previous system, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court, it was necessary in extreme cases, as happened in 2017, for another party to have to earn 227 per cent, more than twice as many as the other party of the vote. In the system that seems to be approaching it, this is the Imperial system that has been compiled here and prepared by the rapporteur Benda, and I basically thank him for doing the job, so there is a smaller volume: for one mandate, one party would need roughly 137 per cent compared to what the other party did, i.e. a third more votes. It's not perfectly proportional. A completely proportional system is what the government has actually prepared in variant one. However, we believe that this is proportional enough to hold up in the review of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court's point of view and constitutional conformity is the primary one that we have applied in the negotiations and procedure. That is why I am also glad that we have managed to find a consensus that this decision-making will be removed from the second scrutiny by the parties after the elections, because it undermines the principle of direct elections and also would, in our view, seriously undermine confidence in this House, because, in turn, a large part of the mandates could be chosen and occupied on the basis of the decision of political leadership of the parties after the elections on some electoral staffs not in a completely understandable way for the electorate. Instead, we have some variants of some different vending machines. I think that's clearly better. So there are three different vending machines. I'll talk to them later. As I said, this system is not only more relative to the parties, so it is possibly relative to the regions, which I think corresponds to some wish of the Senate. This also corresponds to the resolution of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, put the relativeness of the party's results to itself first, but there was also the preservation of the current system of 14 electoral regions. So we've been able to fill that up, too, and I'm glad for that. So now I would like to comment on the biggest issue, and that is the question of the way in which the mandates are distributed in the second crucifixion. So here we finally have four options to deal with it, respectively. one, keep the original system from the draft constitutionally-legal committee, where the parties would decide, and then there are three options to deal with it differently. The easiest proposed by President Vondráček - I had the same proposal, but I consider it better when the President of the House presents it and it is based on some communication with the Senate - it is that we simply replace it with an automaton and the mandates are divided according to the method of the largest remnants, that is, the region of the party where the nearest missed one additional mandate, so they will receive those mandates from the other scrutinium. I'm sure that's a system that's fair and understandable. It carries with it a potential disadvantage that a large part of these large remnants can meet in one region and thus create a certain inequality between the regions. My amendment responds to that. This inequality can range from one to two mandates, which will be a common case, which is certainly not something that creates some fundamental inequality, until in some extreme cases to some plus minus three mandates in a given region, compared to what is actually assumed to be a proportional number of mandates in a given region. And I'd consider that to be some kind of excessive excess. That is why I have presented my H3 proposal, which you have at your disposal and which says that we are actually dividing in exactly the same way, only if there is a risk that a really large number of residual mandates will land in some region, the smallest of these mandates will no longer be put into the region and moved elsewhere. In addition, up to two mandates may be added to this region compared to the basic number of mandates that fall into the region, but the third or any other ones that should end up in that region will move elsewhere. In general, this is not a matter that would threaten to happen very often, but it would happen once in 2017 and one mandate would move there from I think the South Bohemia Region to the South Moravian Region, as it happens, the mandate of the Czech Pirate Party. However, it is not something fundamental. However, we would prefer that this proposal be voted first. And I have a technical repair here somewhere because I've been alerted by the Ministry of the Interior, even though everyone, the lay and professional public I'm communicating with, so the meaning of my proposal was obvious to them, so I've been alerted The Ministry of the Interior said it wasn't entirely perfect and they might be able to perceive an alternative interpretation. So I've prepared some additions that will build this up for sure, all this stuff, so we can be sure. And there it is. So I'll just read the correction of my proposal in accordance with Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the amendment to my number 7897, which is an amendment to the proposal contained in the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee No 264 of 17 March 2021 to the Government Bill amending Act No 2 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended, i.e. the Chamber of Press 1170/1. Now, then, the legislative technical repair. First, in point 4, the words "all sides of all regions' shall be inserted after the words "the communication'. So this is going to make it clear that we're dividing up the individual remains of each side in each region, not some sum of these leftovers. In point 4, the word "dot' is replaced by the words "to the region in which the rest was obtained and to the party that obtained it'. Again, I thought it was obvious that if, according to some rest, we're giving a mandate, we're assigning it to the party that the rest of it is, and to the region that the rest of it is. But I've been warned that it's not obvious, and there's an alternative interpretation. I don't think so, but I put it this way. And the third part is: in point 4, the sentence "mandat is always given to the first candidate of a political party, political movement or coalition who has not received a mandate in the first crucifixion according to the order of the ballot for the particular electoral region' is inserted after the words "which received it'. Once again, it is a matter that I considered to be obvious, because we have already adjusted the order of the candidate lists in the previous scrutiny, so if we are ordering new mandates to a given region of the party, it is clear that they are to be received by those candidates who have been moved forward in that revised order. However, I was warned that there is an alternative interpretation - which I would consider absurd - that, in the second crucifixion, it is not allocated according to the revised candidate lists, but according to the unsubstantiated candidate lists, so that in the second crucifixion priority votes would not be applied. Of course, that was not my intention, it would seem completely unimaginable to me. However, I was warned that the sentence needs to be supplemented, so I'm supplementing it. This is a legislative technical correction which specifies the complaints contained in the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. Explicitly, it provides that all remnants of all sides are grouped in all regions of division in the first crucifixion and the mandate is allocated to the region where the remainder was obtained and to the party which obtained it. It will be obtained by default by a candidate who did not receive it in the first scrutiny according to any adjusted order. So I'm sure that the things I thought were obvious were entirely in the intent of the proposal, because it was not intended to intervene in any way. [[10.40 hours]] Instead of dividing the mandates into regions for each of the parties from the second scrutinium by profit in the given regions, it is suggested that we distribute them according to the profits of the candidates in terms of the number of preferential votes, not with regard to the 5% clause that causes the move on the candidate list, as we are used to, but quite freely, which is a very interesting entry into the system. And actually, neither I nor any of the political scientists can predict exactly how he would behave, because it's some kind of power giving the voters and a strong ability to influence the actual ballot. However, since we are already very uncertain about how many mandates will be distributed in the second crucifixion, it can be virtually from thirty to two, so it is actually very uncertain how this system will behave, how many mandates will be allocated to candidates in this way, and also because it may happen that in the first crucifixion, either a lot of people will be rewarded in the first crucifixion already, depending on the fact that they have advanced, so it may be that in the second crucifixion they will receive a smaller number, or a smaller percentage, because all candidates who have obtained a large percentage have just been rewarded in the first crucifixion, or, on the other hand, they are threatened to receive the mandates of candidates who have not received so many preferential votes in the second crucifixion. So it can attract important personalities here, but it can lead to the difference in who gets the mandate, it will just be in the preferential voting units, and not for some people who get a lot of preferential votes, but for people who get a little. And there's one more thing that needs to be mentioned. This system will, of course, not guarantee a greater proportion on behalf of individual regions, because it simply prefers personalities and does not focus on the relative representativeness of the regions, so it can happen that there will actually be a lot of preferential votes in some region, or high rates of preferential votes, and many Members will come from this region over another region. And really, because we don't have the same size regions and not the same size candidate lists, so obviously in a region where the candidate lists are short, or if any political party would choose that method, because we don't have any obligation to fulfill the candidate list for 23 or how many mandates, or up to 30, because really from a given party due to the fragmentation of the political system, given that it is not expected that extreme situations would occur, where no one would simply come to the elections in a region or the like, so the first 10 mandates are most important in those large regions, the rest is simply not in those primarily optional places and in principle doesn't apply, so the parties could decide, in response to this electoral system, that they would have to shorten the ballot lists, either to prevent it being very strangely moved forward in the second scrutiny, or vice versa, that, that the voter would choose... Like this: if you shorten your candidate list in a region, that means that the candidates on that list will have a high preferential vote ratio if they are granted preferential votes, so they have a better chance of getting those mandates into that region. This means that some regional association or regional organization may be tactically determined to simply shorten the list of candidates, thereby increasing the number of preferential votes for the candidates on the candidate list and actually drawing their party's mandates into their region. And because the system raises so many special questions, even though I am in favour of giving power to voters, because we cannot fully assume exactly how it will behave, so I suggested to my club that we abstain in this vote, if it comes to it. Of course, it's not binding, some may comment. So that would probably be the basic view. I don't know if anyone's gonna want to bring up the whole history of how we're looking at having to make decisions now during the election campaign. Personally, I am glad that the Constitutional Court's decision has brought us to a more proportional system. It will indeed be significantly more proportional and significantly fairer than the previous systems. I've been warned that there are some disputes about whether the system is monotonous, which we're finally approaching, but I think the agreement is definitely better than the one we had. If the agreement did not fall, then it is for President Vondráček's proposal, on the one hand, that we should introduce two electoral countries, the other and the government option one, namely an absolutely proportional system, which we would, of course, support if it came to it, however, if the outcome of the final vote corresponds to the agreement that was made, that is, the more proportional system according to the proposal of the constitutional-legal committee - 14 electoral regions and after the elections do not divide the political party's mandates, but it is done on the basis of the voter's will and electoral law - we will in any case support this proposal. Thank you. So much for my opening speech, where I presented one technical correction, and then I will apply to individual minor amendments, which I consider appropriate to justify separately, because they simply concern a different material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. At the beginning, the Vice-President said that no one was enrolled in the debate to please him, so six have already volunteered. However, with priority rights and with the club's opinion first Mr. Excellent for the KDU-ČSL club, then the President of Rakušan will prepare the club's priority right and position. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, let me introduce you very briefly to the position of the KDU-ČSL MEP on the electoral law. I would like to start by saying that we may have achieved something with this press. On the third of February, when the Constitutional Court issued its finding and abolished parts of the electoral law, no one dared say that at the beginning of April we would be able to approve a third-reading amendment to the electoral law, which would complete the electoral law and give voters such clear boundaries and clear rules as to vote in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to very much appreciate the constructive approach of these political negotiations both as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee - colleague Marek Benda, as well as President of the House Radek Vondráček. I think that this law has shown how important it is to be able to communicate, not only within the political bodies here in the House, but also with the upper chamber of Parliament, the Senate. We have an election law. And I've warned from the beginning about getting into this model boat here, which means we'd be sending the electoral law here from one chamber to another and overvoking each other, because that would be a very bad signal, especially towards the public. These negotiations have not been easy, but I must nevertheless appreciate the fact that the majority consensus has been found here. Finally, the vote was already on the Constitutional and Legal Committee last week. On behalf of KDU-ČSL, I can clearly say that from the beginning we preferred the minimalist version of the intervention in the electoral law. In the situation in which we are about half a year before the elections, we did not consider it happy to open a debate on the size and number of electoral regions, although of course there is a fundamental reason for the disproportion. The Hondtův system itself - the modification that was abolished in February, was not a problem. The problem was the link between this system and the 14 different electoral regions, and we finally criticized that. And let me just remind you that KDU-ČSL already in 2019, without even knowing it, was actually pre-empting the Constitutional Court's finding by its proposal, which lay here and lying. We did not, in some way, politically consider it necessary for us to stand hard behind this proposal in the sense that the amendment must be discussed on its ground plan, on this chassis. In the end, however, I must say that what Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček presented in the government in the form of the two variants, one of the 14-iron versions, was in principle copied by the folk version of 2019, because it was based on the Hagenbach-Bischoffův method, which is purely proportional and distributes mandates nationwide first and then down to the 14 regions. [[10.50 hours]] However, we clearly want to say that we support the version that is now on the table, with a comprehensive amendment prepared by the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Marek Benda. For one thing, we believe that as far as the conversion is concerned, the mathematical conversion according to Belgian Senator Pierre Imperiali, in principle satisfies what is in the Constitutional Court's finding, that is, the proportion is maintained here with a small, but I stress a small bonus, a bonus, but not for the winners, but for the more successful political parties at the expense of the less successful. Finally, even in this sense that such, let's say, symbolic majority elements can be in that model, the Constitutional Court has finally expressed itself. I am convinced that it is therefore comfortable that this is not contrary to the Constitutional Court's finding. KDU-ČSL clearly supports this version. From the beginning, we were quite vigilant about the solution of the other scrutinium, we were not those who were thrilled that we should implement a model that de facto only after the elections determined the regions or, where appropriate, the mandates to which the second scrutinium should go. On the other hand, it must be said that it was indeed some consensus, a compromise of political negotiations. And somewhat unfairly, my colleague, Marek Benda, was accused of wanting to return the system somewhere until the 1990s. Whoever read the proposal must have known from the beginning that it wasn't, and that it was him who came up with the compromise proposal between the two poles. And there were demands to really go back to the free choice in the second crucifixion. He came up with the version only according to the variant of the first replacements, meaning the first footnotes, who got a piece of the mandate but not the whole, directly from the voters. However, I appreciate the fact that we have finally found a consensus here, in this sense, presented by the President of the House Radek Vondráček, and in the other scrutiny, the proposal of my colleague Marek Benda will remain free from the nomination by political subjects, but there will be an automatic distribution according to the variant of the original humane design Hagenbach-Bischoff then in the second scrutinium. I think this is the right way that ultimately led to this broad compromise and consensus here in the Chamber of Deputies. As far as the coalition's coalition coalition is concerned, we have been convinced from the outset that there should be limits, but that they should be milder than they have been. The 8 and 11 percent result for us is clearly acceptable. The third thing I want to mention is two amendments, actually three, because one is presented by my colleague Karla Šlechtová from the government camp, two we have tabled together with my colleague Marek Benda and Dominik Feri, and they concern correspondence elections from abroad. We wanted to do so, if at this time we have an open electoral law, to comply with the long-term call of our citizens, students, people working abroad, where, of course, participation in elections, where it is possible to vote from abroad, is now very complicated, often means a few days of vacation and also large financial costs, e.g. to travel to the embassy, typically it concerns mainly those large countries such as Australia, Canada, the United States of America etc., and the correspondence option could solve this. I want to stress that this is a solution that has not been created in recent weeks or two months. The solution has been here in the House for two and a half years, it has even been returned to recast and modified in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and now only taken into this amendment to the electoral law, so that no one can attack us from rushing something. On the contrary, the proposal has its ratio. It is coming to this government, because this government has it in its government statement, so it would be possible to meet one of the objectives that the government has set itself, and we clearly agree with it in this sense, while at the same time meeting the fair wishes of our citizens living and working abroad. That is why we have put forward the correspondence option. I'd like you to be able to support her here in the House. It has great support from the Upper House of Parliament. We, knowing the possible objections, have put forward two options. One option with effect for this year's elections, the other option with effect only from 1 January 2022, which would not apply to this election, so that we cannot be challenged by the argument that we are creating something for ourselves. We will also support the proposal of my colleague Karla Šlechtová, who is actually dealing with the same problem by analogy, i.e. correspondence choice from abroad. We are prepared to support these amendments, as are the ones I have already mentioned, i.e. are the result of the political negotiations that took place on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but was communicated with the majority in the upper chamber, i.e. in the Senate. I believe that today we will successfully approve the amendment to the electoral law, sending a signal to the voters that elections and electoral rules this year will be approved in time and ready so that the elections can run properly. Because it may sound a bit like a phrase, but it is a holiday of democracy when voters are free to decide how to manage this country. I believe that after today, the hole that was created in the electoral law will be healed. Thank you for your attention and support for the amendments, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I'll read two apologies. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes throughout the day for working reasons.The Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman apologizes today for working reasons. With priority rights, Mr. President Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u8	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'll be very brief. All parameters of the new electoral law were presented in detail by both my previous speakers. I would like to thank you, Mr President, President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, to all the political factions in the Chamber of Deputies that we were able to achieve in such a short period of time in such a fragmented Chamber of Deputies, where we have nine parliamentary clubs, some elementary agreement on how we should be voting in the Czech Republic in the autumn to the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I would also like to appreciate our senators - I do not mean our party but in general The Senate as an institution - who were willing to start a discussion with the Chamber of Deputies from the beginning - somehow give basic parameters to the playground where we are moving. Of course, as Chairman of the Mayors and Independent Movement, I feel in a certain way responsible for the situation in which we are now in. It was our senators who came up with a draft constitutional lawsuit in autumn 2017 looking for support from other Senate clubs in our upper chamber. Of course, we could not have known at the time that the Constitutional Court's decision would take so long. We had no idea that the Constitutional Court's decision would not come at the very best moment, shortly before the parliamentary elections, and so the Constitutional Court put us in a rather difficult position: to quickly agree and prepare a bill that would compromise and pass through both chambers to avoid the ping-pong, to return the ball from one chamber to another. I hope we're like Today, the Chamber of Deputies will begin the path to this consensus, the path to an electoral law that will be fairer. I would just like to say that I stand by the initiative of our senators to this day. The basic example of what the previous electoral system, which was found to be unconstitutional, was problematic is the number of votes that individual political groups needed for the gain of the parliamentary mandate. In the case of the previous elections of the strongest ANO movement, it was 19 232 votes to the profits of the parliamentary mandate, for the STAN movement, which had less than 5.2 percent of the votes in those previous elections, it was necessary for the gain of one parliamentary mandate to 43 692 votes. This has been found by the Constitutional Court as truly violating the principle of equal choice. [[11.00 hours]] I am very pleased that by the compromise proposal we are now coming up with, we are removing this injustice. And I would like to presume that the proposal that we should approve today will be tested by constitutionality in principle and that we are putting forward a compromise that is not only politically acceptable to us in the Chamber of Deputies, not only politically acceptable, hopefully for our fellow Members in the Upper Chamber of Parliament, but that it would be acceptable even if it were attacked by the Constitutional Court. I think we have met the very difficult demand that came from the Constitutional Court in a record short time. Once again, I would like to thank everyone, on behalf of the Mayors and the independents, who actually came up with the impetus to the Constitutional Court, and we have solved this problem quite quickly with our creativity and joint work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Rakušan. Good morning, honourable Members. We will continue the open debate in the third reading to the Act on Elections, press 1170. Mr Tomáš Martínek is next. Jan Chvojka will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of the proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, there is a proposal to amend the law supported by the pirát regarding the introduction of the option of correspondence elections for Czechs abroad, which we can support today by adopting Amendment E1. Landscapers often invest funds earned abroad in the Czech Republic, which also suggests bank statistics. At the same time, these Czech citizens often have a very complicated choice over citizens of other countries of the European Union, where the possibility of correspondence elections is long overdue. In a time of coronavirus crisis, the best way to do this is to make a correspondence choice from the point of view of the risk of infection. Some citizens also live in countries where it is not possible to vote at the Czech Embassy, and they would have to travel to another country, which, however, can make the corona regulations impossible. The compatriot Blanka Mládková, working in New Zealand, turned to me with her story. I'd like to quote her letter now: "I am a Češka living long-term with a family in New Zealand. The husband is Čech as well as our children. As long as we lived in the Czech Republic, we always went to all elections. I used to be a member of the Election Commission. It's not about throwing a ballot into an ballot box, it's about expressing the opinion of what direction our beautiful country should continue to take. I am very sorry that I cannot take an active part in the elections now. It's too complicated. Our only option is the choice at the representative office. The closest one is the Consulate General in Sydney. This practically means that you have to buy a ticket and fly more than 2,000 kilometres to another state. The price of the ticket is normally in the amount of 500 New Zealand dollars per trip. There and back it's about 1,000 New Zealand dollars, that's about 15,000 crowns. If you do not live in Christchurch, Wellington or Auckland, where there are international airports, add a trip for a domestic flight that normally ranges from 100 to 150 New Zealand dollars, i.e. 1,500 to 2,250 crowns. Add to that accommodation in Sydney, because in one day you will not be able to do this and you will have to sleep there. You will choose the cheapest accommodation on the outskirts of the city, which range from 150 New Zealand dollars above, i.e. from 2,250 crowns. You'll be paying more money for transportation. In the vicinity of the consulate accommodation starts at 3,000 crowns, i.e. 200 New Zealand dollars. So going to the elections for a Čech living in New Zealand means spending at least 20,000 crowns and adding at least two days of his time, of which at least one day is working. And don't forget that you also have to eat, and prices in Australia are just higher than in New Zealand. A lot of people can't afford that. It's too much money if you take that it might as well be half a month's budget for a four-man family. Now tell me how many people can vote under the above conditions. Imagine that I know several of those who did this, during some parliamentary elections or historically first presidential elections took part in the first round, but they were highly specialised professionals with a high salary, without family or similar obligations. All of this will be accompanied by such an emergency situation in the form of COVID-19, when New Zealand has closed its borders and only citizens and holders of permanent residence can enter. And there really aren't many Čech like that anymore, less than two thousand. Everyone else, if they leave New Zealand, they won't be allowed in until the border opens again. The unofficial reports say that the country will be closed for the whole year. The others, i.e. the holders of permanent residence or the people with dual citizenship, will have to be quarantined at a mandatory 14-day hotel, which they also have to pay for. The price is 3 100 New Zealand dollars, approx. 46 500 crowns. In addition, the hotels are filled for about three months in advance. In other words, you would have spent three months in Australia, that's really unrealistic. When I learned about the initiative We want to vote in distance, I immediately joined it and became coordinator for New Zealand not only for the above reasons. The other, which is also very paradoxical, is that in New Zealand there is no problem to choose distance. In addition to the option to vote in the polling room, all New Novozélanďan can freely vote in correspondence and it is up to them to choose what option they choose. Each person shall receive a ticket to the correspondence method of choice in advance, together with the ballots. Thank you again for the support we have with the pirát, because we Čech living abroad do not care what happens in our picturesque country in the middle of Europe. We have relatives, friends, friends, we grew up there and our memories are tied to the Czech Republic. Some of us have been here for a short time, some of us have been here for a long time. Many of us want to return to the Czech Republic in the future. I personally know several Čech who have returned to their homeland after ten, twenty years abroad. Many of them sold their prosperous foreign companies and brought this capital to the Czech Republic, where they invested it, started business, employ people from the region, live there, raise their children and participate in the growth and prosperity of the Czech Republic. I'm glad you're thinking of us, and thank you for that." It's a letter from Blanka from New Zealand. Therefore, I would like to ask you - as you can see, for many people too, it is very difficult, in view of the coronavirus crisis, to vote at all with regard to the measures in question - to support Amendment E1. I would also like to mention one more thing, for the sake of interest. On the website of the election modelly.pirati.cz We are also modeling amendments to this bill, where you can see what the results of the elections would look like with the adoption of various amendments, be it Mr Benda, Mr Vondráček and so on, given what it would look like in 2017 or even with regard to some current surveys. So thank you for your attention and please once again support the correspondence election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u11	That was Mr Tomáš Martínek. Colleague Chvojka will wait, with a factual remark the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček came forward. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I can do it all in a factual way. I have been positively mentioned twice by Mr Výborný, so I would like to thank him, but I would also like to say that perhaps not entirely well deserved, because the same amendment was also tabled by colleague Pikal and I was mainly such a carrier, because my concern was to find some compromise and communicate with the upper chamber, and that is why I tabled the proposal. But I feel the need to say here that if it were up to me, I'd vote internally for my colleague Benda's proposal. One. Secondly, there is my second amendment, which concerned two electoral countries, which would perhaps bring even greater equality and justice and proportional representation, but the result of the constitutionally-legal committee's negotiations is that this amendment will not even be voted on. So obviously, if things turn out okay, I'm gonna... I, of course, appreciate the agreement, I appreciate the compromise, it's quite pleasant when you can say to the public media that we've agreed on something here, it's not often, and I think we should try it more often, because it's our duty to find some common interest for all of us who are watching us. So I would have to design a completely different procedure, and I could also jeopardize the whole deal that's been going on for months. So for this reason, I'm not going to proceed that way. [[11.10 hours]] I was a little moody in the census, when I put Moravian first in the form. So those who would vote in favour of my amendment to vote separately in Moravia and Silesia can make such a small vote. Who has not yet completed the form of the Czech Statistical Office, so the nationality of Moravian can be filled out. I'm begging you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u13	I thank the President for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Lubomír Volný, then Vice-President Pikal. [[The Free Member comes without a drape.]] Mr. Volný, I'm bringing you to order: you should have worn a drape according to government policy. I'm giving you a warning. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Since any citizen can refuse to comply with any government regulation, if he violates superior legal standards or threatens him to health, I do not have a drape, because according to the statement of the head of the Pneumological Society in the Czech Republic, it threatens me to my health. So I'm using my legal right not to wear this drape and the respirator. Anyway, I'd like to ask you to start counting time again, because with your illegal admonition, you've taken 30 seconds from me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u15	I didn't. I didn't set you off until after I finished talking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u16	Well, I had to explain why you're giving me the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u17	I don't care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u18	So I'm begging you two minutes again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u19	You signed up for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u20	Okay, so I understand you don't want to let me talk, I understand. I also lived in New Zealand for three years, and I don't understand people who go abroad long-term and then want to influence what happens in a country they don't live in. In which they do not pay taxes, to which they have basically no relationship at that moment, because they decided to live somewhere else. I've already acquired residency in New Zealand, and if I stayed in New Zealand, I wouldn't really have thought about influencing the political situation in the country I decided to leave. That's one thing. Second thing. Abuse of the coronavirus crisis to introduce some correspondence vote and any form, whether by letter or electronically, will lead to one single thing, and that will lead to total division of society. Because those who believe in pencil and paper and the electoral committee will never believe in correspondence and electronic voting. And it's gonna be like the United States. Today, tens of millions of people, citizens of the United States, are convinced that they have been deprived of elections. This method is the way to hell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Now Vice-President Pikal with a point of fact. [[An agreement with the President.]] Okay, my colleague Pikal wants to wait until the mouthpiece is sanitized. I'll ask for a favor. I can ask the House's apparatus to... [[He's waiting for duty to arrive.]] We'll wait a little longer... I'm gonna ask the service to disinfect the speaker's desk. Thank you. [[We're cleaning up the pitch.]] In fact, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal came forward. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'm very sorry for the delay, even if it's not my doing. I'd like to respond to two things. Firstly, President Vondráček mentioned me, so I would like to thank you again for bringing the amendment to the introduction of automatic distribution after the second crucifixion. I think that's the way we can get to some real deal. But then I would mainly like to respond to what was said here after, even though I applied earlier, to questioning correspondence elections. The correspondence choices, as they are designed, and as they have been expected in principle for a long time, are about pencils and paper. There's no extra electronic medium or anything like that. And if anyone challenges elections, they will argue that there is fraud in electoral commissions, that there is also fraud in correspondence elections, or that there is fraud in ballot boxes during the night, so they can question elections. It's just that if you tell people lies, some people will just believe them, because from your authority, you'll tell lies, and you'll question the election. And it doesn't matter if they're going right and fair or wrong. If you simply question them based on false claims, you will question them and cause a division of society. The important thing is not to lie! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual comment by Dominik Feri, then Lubomír Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to make a point of fact, not with priority rights afterwards. "We will simplify the electoral rules so as to facilitate citizens' access to elections. Including the introduction of a correspondence option.' This sentence comes from the Government's programming declaration. And if the government is really serious about this support, today we can approve and implement the correspondence option. As has already been done here, it concerns half a million of our citizens abroad, who must spend considerable resources and a great deal of time to vote in order to fulfil their right to vote. In some lands it is thousands of miles. Let's allow them to vote in correspondence, as is common abroad. I still have to look back on what has been said here on their behalf, that they are people who live abroad and as if they were not Čech, Czech citizens. No, they're not strangers, they're Czech citizens with electoral rights. And we should not relativize this right because very often they are people who are watching with interest in our republic. Maybe they want to come back later, their relatives live here. Often they even send here e.g. And money, it's a very common thing. And in some way saying that their voice has less weight, it doesn't seem appropriate to me, it seems strongly anti-democratic to me, and I do not have it for something that should be communicated in this Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, I believe that we should take steps to enable everyone abroad to exercise their right to vote. And the correspondence option is a traditional solution, a proven solution that we can approve here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment by Lubomír Volný and the next one will be Patrik Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u26	[[He's coming back without a drape.]] I, through your, Mr President, to Mr Pikal. Yes, you're right. The election will be called into question. They're just gonna be questioned because it's not just about pencils and paper, it's about the fact that the letter has to travel somewhere for a while, somewhere it's going to be stored, then somebody throws it in that urn, and it just leads to a lot of people, and in America, there's dozens of millions of people who don't believe the system that generated their senile president, who now can't even read his name under a photo at a press conference. Just tens of millions of Američan are convinced that the elections were stolen from the democratic mafia. And there were things about this that they, these voters, will believe for the rest of their lives that it was relevant evidence. The company is crushed and severely divided, and if it wasn't for the correspondence election, it just didn't happen. A correspondence choice is a risk, and it will lead, whether you like it or not, to split up society and lead to those who fail in that choice feeling that they have been deceived. As for the fact that those people living abroad are second-class citizens, it is not true. They can always come home from abroad if it really makes them want to vote, and they can vote at home today at the representative offices. A person living abroad who isn't willing to sacrifice CZK 30,000 to fulfill his civil law doesn't deserve it, because he doesn't really want it much. And I say this with the full knowledge that I have lived alone for three years in New Zealand, two years in England, and for the time I have lived abroad, I would not have really thought to influence my choice of citizens' lives in a country in which I do not live, nor have I planned it in the long run. It's just Pandořin's locker, and you're just gonna split up the company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u27	On a point of fact... I'm going to ask for a hygienic solution and then a colleague named Nacher. [[Rectangular disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. Mr Nacher's point of fact, Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I find this debate a little unfair, because I remember, the moment I defended the motion for a single constituency here, which would be the most transparent, unfair, proportional, that is what the Constitutional Court wanted us to do, so you argued that we would, within the scope of the speed of discussion, within the compromise, within the framework of making it possible for us to discuss and change here only and only what the Constitutional Court told us, i.e. those two paragraphs. This was one of the main, if not the main argument against one constituency, that the number of regions, the number of electoral districts the Constitutional Court did not solve. But in that case, this complaint of yours, and now it was on Dominik Feri, who I don't see here, but he has to pay for the correspondence choice, because the Constitutional Court didn't deal with the correspondence choice either. Well, I'd like to ask you colleagues to be consistent. If we're only to deal with what the Constitutional Court has told us to deal with, then I don't agree with it, but if there's an agreement like this, we've retreated from that one constituency, but let's not push anything that the Constitutional Court hasn't talked about. And now I don't really care about the technique of the thing, if it's not worth it, since the correspondence choice is already being addressed, so to do it in all elections, not just like that in one, etc., but that's technical stuff about the direct correspondence election. But I'd like to ask you for a consistent attitude on this one. The Constitutional Court didn't talk about correspondence elections, so it would be good not to put it that way. I got off at second reading, and I thought no one would come back to it, but since this debate is going on in such detail, I had to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u29	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. Thank you. Now Vice-President Pikal, prepare Pavel Blažek, also with a factual remark. I'd also like a consistent...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. Yes, I will quite consistently agree with Mr Nacher on both things he has said. I agree that the one-and-a-half circuit would be the most proportional, yes, but we had some limits. I agree that it is inconsistent to make a correspondence choice now, which is why we have not given it, although we have long-term support for it, but if the decision lies before us, then I have no choice but to sign up for the option of the correspondence choice, because I simply consider it to be good, well prepared, feasible and beneficial. And I would also like to respond to one argument that he made here. When someone here says that if someone is sorry to sacrifice 30,000 for their right to vote - that is no longer aimed at Mr Nacher, yes - so that they do not deserve it, then I would like to ask if they will also propose the abolition of more voting rooms, so that people will have it to go on, we will spare it, and if they are sorry to implement their right to vote, then they can simply drive to the county city. That seems like a completely ridiculous argument. And then I would like to point out that the world is not America. Of course, correspondence elections take place elsewhere, in many other places in the world. The vast majority of European countries allow for some way of voting in advance, in particular by means of a correspondence vote. It allows, as has been said here, New Zealand, it allows Australia. And the poor quality of presidential candidates that American voters have to choose from, in my way, is the majority system and the two-party system that they have in America, which simply generates such low-quality candidates. And that's all I could worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Pavel Blažek's point of fact, it is Jan Chvojka's turn to register properly. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u32	Hello, thank you for your word. I'm just briefly responding to my colleague Nacher. He keeps saying that the debate is unfair in the sense that it is argued by the founding of the Constitutional Court and because there may not be one district. I would just like to point out for our party that the main position for us was said by Marek Benda and argued quite rightly purely politically. He did not refer at all to any constitutional courts in the sense that we think the one district is politically inappropriate. He showed examples in Slovakia and in some other states. So I will ask my colleague Nacher to maintain some correctness in this, that we did not appeal to - or hide behind the Constitutional Court in the counter-argument. Secondly, two such methodological remarks. Please don't mention that elections are fair or unfair. For justice, human reason invented judgments. No election on principle can be fair and we only waste time saying what is fairer and less fair. History has shown many choices that we would consider unfair, and that's just the way it is, but it has nothing to do with it. Let's leave human justice to the courts, let's not expect it from the elections. Never has been, never will be. And I would say the same thing if we didn't stick around with some constitutionally legal argument that if the Constitutional Court made something clear to us a few months ago, it's that what is constitutional or not, the relevant majority in the Constitutional Court decides, which suddenly decides and suddenly is something constitutional. And to worry here about what the professor or professor says, professor at the faculty, by the way, not only by this decision, he's de facto losing his senses. And maybe one more short... And that is a practical remark, that is no criticism of the Constitutional Court. That's just the way it is, and we have to count on it and work. And in response to Mr. Volný. I'm somehow given to always respond to him. I would like to, and I would rather expect it from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to distance ourselves from here insulting representatives of other states and saying that he is some senile old man, etc. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time for a point of fact has come to an end, Mr. Ambassador.]] So I would distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u33	There. You have raised two more factual points - your colleague Pavel Žáček and Patrik Nacher. Chvoj's Chvojka is still on hold. prosit, Mr Žáček, a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. My comment was not raised by my party colleague, but by Vice-President Pikal, whom I would like to dedicate to you the basic information that concerns the American elections. If we don't like the candidate for one or the party or the person who won the election, I wouldn't hit the American election system. It is a system that generates stability, which, unlike continental election models, is a huge barrier against various extremists, Nazism, fascism, communism. Therefore, I would approach this system with understanding and not through a specific president, whether we like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. A colleague of Nacher's, then a colleague of Pikal. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to do this for a short time. I don't want to stretch it out anymore, Pavel Blažek. He's over there. He probably didn't listen to me exactly. If I get off here, I'll always get it ready, even if I'm going down the road. I didn't respond to Marek Benda or the ODS. I always listen, the one who says something, I respond directly to him. So the complaint was unfair for us to be in those words today, or inaccurate. But I mentioned the basic moment. And that fundamental moment is when you look at the tapestry that the main argument against the single-election system was that we have little time, we have to deal with covid, a lot of laws, and let's just deal with what the Constitutional Court has accused us of, and that's two paragraphs. And if he didn't factor out the number of electoral circuits, let's not worry about that. That was an argument. I didn't agree to it, I said, but I respect that's what the majority decided. And now we're losing most of our time here, or we're losing it, and the discussion is necessary, but we're dealing with a correspondence choice that the Constitutional Court didn't solve either. Well, I'm just calling, it's obvious, after a consistent attitude, that if we're only to deal with what the Constitutional Court has given us back, then let us deal with it and not put other things in it. It's as simple as a ladder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President Pikal, then two further factual points, colleague Volný and colleague Martínek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Only very briefly to Mr Žáček by means of you when I was approached. I certainly didn't want to say that some American candidates I like or don't like that they're good quality or poor quality. I don't think that's my place. But I said that their quality, whether negative or positive, simply generates an electoral system, virtually. the two-sided system they have there. And I would like to point out that when there was an attack on the Capitol in America, I'm not sure how much this system can defend itself against the extremes and their entry, if, on the contrary, it does not lead to some parties integrating them into their rhetoric and counting to their base, which I consider far more dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u39	Now, Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark, Mr Martínek will also be prepared with a factual remark. My colleague Chvojka is the patience itself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u40	[[He comes without a drape.]] Thank you, Mr President. I have listed here as an unfortunate example of the division of the society of correspondence elections. I didn't comment on any system in the United States that isn't based on two sides, that's just not true. There are many other political parties in the United States. There are other presidential candidates in the United States than Republicans and Democrats. The fact that pirates don't know is kind of funny. However, if you come by, I'll give you some training on the subject. And the fact that the system, when we started the debate on the American electoral system, is a guarantee of stability and that it prevents the rise of various extremists, I am very glad to hear that, because it is confirmed that President Trump was no extremist and that he was no fascist, sexist, Nazi, etc., as he has been labeled by his opponents all along. And that President Biden, I'm sorry, is a senile left-wing extremist who stands by what they write on that paper, the left-wing extremist policy of the absolute left-left spectrum of made in China, which means communist capitalism, so it's probably obvious to any normal-thinking person. So I do not like this, but I agree with your President, Vice-President Pikal, that this system, unfortunately, does not prevent any extremes at all and that it would be stable. There just came a man who was 100% conservative, that was President Trump, and now there's a communist made in China who's implementing an absolutely left-wing communist-capitalist policy connected with all the neo-Marxist nonsense one can make up. [[Attention on time.]] And he's just a senile extremist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u41	Your time is up for a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador. I can lead you, all my colleagues and colleagues, just to get to the point. Now a colleague of Martínek with a factual remark and a colleague of Pikal. - I'm gonna ask for a favor, which is why I'm talking about bringing you back to the debate at third reading. Third reading. [[Rectangular disinfection in progress.]] An unfortunate custom that developed here after one of the performances of former colleague Cyril Svoboda, has never been dealt with here before in the third reading of the discussion, which is part of the reading of the first or second. This is the case now. I know it's practice. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I don't want to respond to the insults of a previous speaker, whether it was against the American President or the pirát or anyone else, but briefly to a colleague named Nacher. But we're dealing with the covid with the correspondence vote. I don't know if you listened to the letter I read, how difficult it is at this moment to vote for many Czech citizens abroad. Here and because of the coronavirus situation, it just happens that many people can't even vote because they couldn't go back to the country because of the measures in question, such as New Zealand. If they can vote, they would have to spend several weeks in quarantine on their return for one vote, which could normally be met by correspondence choices as other citizens of developed countries. So it's pretty coherent with the covid, regardless of the fact that it would certainly limit the unnecessary contacts that the tax people would have, and it could endanger them on life. What this ODS proposal and others put forward is also that it is in a government statement. So we're actually dealing with something here that should be the consensus of this House if it's supported by government parties and so are most opposition parties. So from this point of view, I think I would be happy if you would support this to help you fulfill your government statement while helping citizens living abroad to make use of their electoral rights, even in this difficult situation where coronavirus makes it impossible to travel, it makes it impossible to move in some simple way to more distant places, e.g. And the embassy. Many countries have closures between districts, just like we have in the Czech Republic, and they don't have to get to the embassy where they could vote in that country. So there are many reasons why to support this right now, because actually, coronavirus limits many citizens to exercising their electoral right to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And perhaps the final factual remark of my colleague Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. As soon as possible. The Pirate Party, of course, or I don't know how the Pirate Party, I know, of course, that there are other parties in American politics, as well as the Green Party and the Libertarian Party have built their presidential candidates. Of course there's a chance to sign someone up, etc. The system is very complicated, and it's very strange at times. And, of course, there is also a pirate party registered in California, or at least the California Pirate Party, at that national level, it's a bit complicated. And then I wanted to say that there was probably a perfect demonstration here that our idea of reality and what is so true and what is extreme and what is not extreme is already completely destroyed by the existence of new media and also by the fact that our reality is created by false news, either from one side or from the other, which obviously leads to the fact that we can't have any more rational conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Chvojka, duly signed up for the debate. A colleague of mine, Jarošová, will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. Before I start talking to the law, I'll be late. We here have a constant tendency to change the Rules of Procedure, but I would say almost that those factual remarks and various comments that it is evil, because it is not fair when a person is logged in for an hour, an hour and a half and on the basis of factual remarks he is skipped by different people across different political parties and discussing what is not really in any way a factual remark. So I'm a little sorry, but maybe it's a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Nacher is furious, so you can see who called himself the one who was stalling for nothing. [[He's laughing.]] But I'm kidding. I'm sorry I got to the floor after an hour since I signed up. I'm going to be performing perhaps not entirely long for the final third reading of this press. I performed at first reading as well as at second reading on the board of constitutional law, with the fact that it is probably not worth repeating and responding to what has already been said here. [[11.40 hours]] Short résumé. The decision of the Constitutional Court, or the finding, was dated 3 February, which was not so long ago, it was two months and four days. Then we had various meetings, whether formal or informal. The informal one, on the basis of meetings of political party chairmen, formal on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee, also the Constitutional Commission. And with some gradual steps, we got to the third reading today, saying that, of course, what we're sending to the Senate has to get the exact same wording, the consent of the Senate, and then the press will go to the House. I must say for the ČSSD, which is today rather smaller they will become rather than the bigger party, that I agree with the founding of the Constitutional Court. I've already said that in the first reading discussion. The decision really responds to the fact that every voter vote here was not as strong and equally equal. This means that perhaps we can make the electoral system in the Chamber of Deputies a little fairer. Although I repeat, I don't think it's going to be 100 percent fair, because here we just have 14 distinctly large municipalities, which we call the regions. By definition, if you have a region where you get 7 % and you don't get Members, such as the Liberec Region, and then you have a region where you get 7 % and you get Members of two, such as the Moravian-Silesian Region, you see that there is just inequality and there is still discrimination. But it's not the electoral law itself, it's the division of electoral districts into 14 self-governing regions. The question is, is there any other way to do it? That's what we discussed. One circuit, it's not worth it, it's a dead topic if he didn't have support in the Senate. The division into Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia is also probably something that will not find support here in the House. I confess that I found the original proposal fairer from a lesser point of view. This means the original proposal, whether folklore, which was more and more equitable about the system, so basically the original design variant number, I guess, one of the Ministry of the Interior's designs. Because Imperiali plus two do, after all, in a certain way - and the translators themselves actually admit it, it is nothing that is not known - a little favours the larger parties and a little disadvantages the small parties. This means that I cannot agree with that behind the ČSSD because what we originally proposed is slightly distorted, which means greater justice for the electoral system. But there seems to be a majority will to have this electoral system of Imperiali plus two approved, and there's nothing we can do about it. I would just conclude - and I would probably not talk about it if the President of the Constitutional Court, Pavel Rychetský, was not in the debate on CNN Prima NEWS on Sunday - I think it was CNN Prima NEWS, I hope I am not mistaken. I wouldn't have thought of it if I hadn't been watching TV. And I looked it up now and the Internet. Just subtitles. The government took hasty and comical steps, the result is rusty, says Rychetský. The struggle of government with covid, the result is very rusty, they mean Rychetský. The government takes steps that are light and comfortable, says Rychetský. He wants to avoid making difficult decisions. I respect the President of the Constitutional Court very much as a true expert, a true expert in constitutional law, a great lawyer who, of course, is now suspended because he is the President of the Constitutional Court, but here I was a little pissed off. And I don't mean that I'm criticizing him as a government MP. Of course, the President of the Constitutional Court has the right to do so and I understand him in part. The government simply found itself one year ago in a day-to-day situation that was never here - a pandemic that we are fighting until today - and of course made logically a number of unpleasant and perhaps sometimes confusing decisions. But if the Constitutional Court, its chairman, is too much of a court-martial outside the classic general judicial authority, it is a sui generis court, when the power of court criticizes executive or legislative power, then I will also allow myself to repeat a little criticism that I have already said in the first reading on Wednesday, February 3, this year. If President Rychetský says that the government is taking steps that are ridiculous or trivial or uncomfortable, or, respectively, uncomfortable for citizens and comfortable for politicians, I say that I also find it trivial and smiling and comical - that is what the President of the Constitutional Court also said - that a group of senators will challenge the electoral law for a month or a month and a half after the 2017 elections and the Constitutional Court will decide after three years and three months. Well, that sounds like crap to me, too. After all, the find could have been lost a month earlier. If it was six months earlier, I wouldn't be mad. I really feel that we have been able to debate the amendment for a little longer, and maybe even include the questions of the correspondence vote or some other questions. But if you just know that you have to call an emergency meeting for today, on April 7th, because if the 7th of April doesn't make it to the third reading, then the Senate won't be able to make it and then the president, or it will be delayed a little bit more, then you just don't feel comfortable. And you know that this law, or this amendment to the law, could have been devoted more time. That there might have been even more discussion about it, that we could have discussed it more deeply, and such a law would deserve it. Therefore, I am sorry that we had only a few weeks since the first reading to read today's third. This law - after all, it is a very important law - decides how many Members the party will have, how many constituencys we will have. It's just the basic right of everyone over the age of 18, the right of the voter, the power of the voter. So I think a law like that would deserve a longer hearing. And I believe that perhaps the next term of office of this House will be spent more and especially longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u47	I thank Mr Jan Chvojka. My kolegyně Jarošová will posečkat, I have two applications with priority rights and one factual remark. First, Marek Výborný's factual comment and then Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček and Vice-President Pikal with priority rights. So it's gonna take a while. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask you to return to the subject of this matter, this is an amendment to the electoral law. And while I respect the freedom to comment on anything here, so that we don't discuss Sunday's debates or our complaints about the President of the Constitutional Court, who is not here. I guess this can be dealt with in a different way. Only on the margo of this thing and the sigh of my colleague Chvojka I say, since November 2019 we have been here to discuss the substance of the amendment of the electoral law, because he was lying here, and whoever did not want it was the coalition of the ČSSD and the movement YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. So now Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, I would like to apologise for not being able to attend the beginning of this debate. Let me speak here as Minister of Foreign Affairs, a minister whose portfolio includes, among other things, the protection of the rights and interests of citizens of the Czech Republic abroad. I would like to speak briefly in support of the amendments to the electoral law which affect the possibility of introducing a correspondence election as an option for our citizens who live abroad for a long time. According to our estimates, around half a million Czech citizens currently live abroad with active electoral rights. These fellow citizens are not people who would break ties with our country, our country, and they are also people who, for objective reasons, especially because of the great geographical distances of their residence from the nearest representative office, do not really have the possibility to exercise their basic political right. This is illustrated by the highest vote of citizens who live abroad, when only 17 000 voted in the election of the President in 2018. [[11.50 hours]] I therefore consider the introduction of the option to vote in correspondence to be a good solution which will contribute to universality and equality of electoral law in the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you, at the same time, that the correspondence choice was introduced more than ten years ago not only by all our foreign neighbours, but also by all the Member States of the European Union, with a few exceptions. In this respect, therefore, the amendments tabled cannot be welcomed. However, let me briefly comment on these proposals. As much as both amendments link a common objective that deserves support, there are also a few fundamental differences between them. First of all, it must be pointed out that Mrs Šlechtová's proposal is generally more conducive to voters when it allows for a wider time span of the correspondence election. He also counts on votes sent by voters living abroad from the territory of the Czech Republic and allows correspondence choices even in the case of early elections. At the same time, this amendment also constitutes a lower administrative burden for the representative offices and provides sufficient guarantees for the legitimacy of the elections. Here I would like to say that this is not capable of ensuring the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this respect, it is also necessary to highlight the proposal that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as one of the electoral bodies, should be able to limit the territory to which correspondence documents are to be sent by decree. Without that authority, it would be at least difficult for the representative offices to ensure delivery e.g. to areas affected by conflict or areas with insufficient postal services, which could result in the subsequent questioning of the legitimacy of the elections. If I could therefore speak out and express my own preference between the two amendments, I would clearly speak out in favour of Mrs Šlechtová's proposal. At the same time, I am convinced, and I can also stress here that the amendment is designed so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is able to ensure the implementation of the correspondence election already in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal and co-worker Jarošová is registered, after the Vice-President. Yes, you are. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. The debate is moving forward. I would like to comment on two proposals, which are also somewhat sideways as the correspondence vote, but they relate to the matrix of the electoral law. It is, on the one hand, a proposal tabled by Mr Benda, and not by the constitutionally-legal committee, but by the party's contributions, respectively. coalitions for their activities. And there I would like to say that we understand the effort to clarify the law and it is certainly beneficial for smaller coalitions, so fair for us and we will support this proposal. And even if in some interpretation dispute, it may lead to the fact that the larger coalitions will lose some resources compared to the current practice, but what is fair, virtually. which is better for the smaller ones, it is probably better for all of us in terms of access to electoral law and the possibility of this policy to be a discussion of different views. And then there's Mr. Michálek's proposal, which is not present in the hall at the moment. So I would just like to remind you of the amendment. It is a proposal that concerns allowing citizens who are neither political parties nor candidates, nor are in any way fundamentally active, nor do they have any large marketing means, but simply want to express their support to a candidate, some party at some very basic civil level, simply put the poster behind the window, put up some banner on their balcony or maybe get involved in a campaign at a level totally voluntary and completely unprofessional by any ordinary participation in the campaign. At present, if you are a party member, you do not have to register these things and do not have to count them, but if you are not a party member, you are simply an independent citizen, so you would have to register these things either through the political party whose campaign you want to support, that is, you will appear in its annual reports and reports, or, if necessary, register separately at the Office for the Management of Political Parties. I find it completely absurd that a citizen would like to post a poster on his balcony, agree or disagree with the government, and because of that he had to register with the Office for the Management of Political Parties and here actually add his annual report etc. So this is a proposal that aims to change this, but during the debate on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, there was a consensus that a working group would sit on it in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and that a proposal in the 90s would eventually be prepared. So, for this reason, I will not, in principle, be honing for us to accept this proposal, although I consider it to be good in particular in terms of protecting actually sensitive personal data, so that our citizens who choose to be politically active here simply do not come up with permanent records and lists that will accompany you, for example, after you have ever supported a party at 17, as well as at 27, when you are applying for a job or something, so that people can pull on you and see what kind of political party you have ever supported, and accordingly you have been disciplined. So I think this would be a very inappropriate practice that could eventually arise for us. The electoral law simply goes too far in transparency towards citizens, and for this reason I think it would be appropriate to support this proposal, virtually. So find some consensus on a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u53	I thank Vice-President Pikal. Now, Mrs Jarošová, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my amendment under number 7902, where I place in the electoral law the definition of a coalition and the possibility of setting up a coalition club. Why is that important? A change in the electoral law and a reduction in the kvora for the accession of coalitions to the Chamber of Deputies can cause more subjects to enter the Chamber of Deputies. These coalitions may fall apart immediately after the election, but they should also be able to remain a coalition throughout the next parliamentary term, including the establishment of their parliamentary clubs. And that's what gives them my proposal. It is a lack of law on elections to the Chamber of Deputies that it does not contain the definition of coalitions at all, it only works with this term, even if it is a fundamental matter. This definition is therefore supplemented and used by this amendment for the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Legislation needs to be prepared for these cases in order to avoid practical and interpretational problems. This is also a large financial savings. If the coalition of more than one party fell apart right after joining the Chamber of Deputies, it could mean the emergence of more MPs than it is in this parliamentary term, and hence increased financial demands on the state budget. The Chamber of Deputies should set an example at a time when citizens of the Czech Republic have to humble themselves and do not unnecessarily increase the use of funds for the operation of too many MPs. This amendment also eliminates the practical interpretation problem of the formation of coalition clubs. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mrs Jarošová. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Mrs Šlechtová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, it will be more or less glossy for me, because some more systematic presentation of something that my previous speakers have dealt very well with across the political parties would be meaningless and would take your precious time. But a few glos after all. It has been repeatedly quoted here, just to clarify the memorable and significant decision, memorable certainly, it will be written into the history of the Constitutional Court, this finding, and in a way also significant, though not positive in my opinion, the decision of the Constitutional Court. The find was from 2. 2. - not from 3. 2, of 2. 2. 2021. On February 10th, a derogation finding was published in the Collection of Laws under number 49/2021. It was rightly said that he complied with the proposal of a group of senators, which had been put forward a long time ago. So what I don't think we should lose sight of is that we got close to the constitutional crisis because of this finding. And I, personally and as a lawyer, am still surprised by the procedure and I am critical here, I will follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Chvojka, by your means, Mr Vice-President. Personally, I do not think that the Constitutional Court, whether in the person of the President of the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Judges, should comment on whether anyone speaks politically well from the executives, decides, progresses, especially in a situation which I would call absolutely exceptional, extraordinary, when we should rather join forces and not divide society. I have always seen the Constitutional Court just as a very prestigious workplace where every lawyer would like to go, because it is the best place to influence fundamental human rights and freedoms in the Czech Republic, and here I will allow myself to use the somewhat contested expression of the ex-minister of justice, but I too am an ex-minister of justice, my colleagues Blažek, we always have to strive for justice, it is not only an empty category, he did not say so, but we have to question it a little bit, so at least we have to strive for it, and that is what the Constitutional Court has always done with our decisions in the past, or there is always too hard a term, but we have certainly not been so much in doubt or we have not had as much doubt as we have now. Now I have the doubts. I'll take that as his jurisdiction. There's no other way to interpret it. It must be respected. I said it immediately after the discovery, total respect. I got held up, I said in person now, comments. However, when we are here before the third vote, I will not forgive myself for saying that, as the pandemic crisis has led us to the brink of our forces, and certainly here, as Mr Nacher, your Vice-President, said, we are, and said more Members here, surely we have made some mistakes and made mistakes, and sometimes I am also unhappy with the TV screen, or when I listen to our media rightly criticizing some chaotic steps, but still the direction is correct, even though we do not like and ruin our psychological, somatic, economic health. Just isolation, protecting weaker, more vulnerable, older, if you want, the principle of solidarity, it can save us. And the Constitutional Court's finding of February 2 at the time of the climactic crisis, and it says, so and now a few months before the elections, if you don't agree, we are on the verge of a constitutional crisis, and you will be the ones who will be responsible, even in that government, even in the House, perhaps even in the Senate, or, in fact, constitutional officials, supreme, supreme, supreme, for this country being not only in the pandemic crisis, but also in the constitutional crisis. And I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you all. I was in that small working group, at the very beginning, then in the course of a little and now in the end, involved in the result, as Vice-President Pikal said here, across the political spectrum a lot of Members and Members, and their work is not visible, but it was. And without that, we wouldn't be here at third reading today. So it can be said that if we manage to vote out a compromise proposal that has already been introduced here and where it may seem like a simple thing, but I was at the very beginning, and even with those additive closing clauses, there was no consensus. There was no match. And here I would say that the SPD has backed back a lot from its original assumptions. And I'm very happy for that. There's been a compromise. We backed away from our fantasy, and I also shared it that the most righteous would be one constituency. Now, to do no harm to anyone by not mentioning it, but perhaps the pirát have backed back from their own, if you will allow it, sometimes boldly adventurous ideas that I need not even specify here, but in the interest of consensus and in the interest of seeking compromise, even with regard to the other scrutinium, which has actually remained open to us until the last moment, and I wonder how the vote will turn out, so they have come to compromise. And Vice-President Pikal repeatedly explained to me, or rather, I would say that he tried to explain to me those mathematical models to resign at some point and I said to myself, I am a lawyer, perhaps not bad, but a mathematician will always be bad and I will trust those who are better, and I will lean towards the proposal that will gain most here in this direction. It is a proposal from the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček, which I also take symbolically, it has also been said here that if this proposal receives a majority, it is also a signal from the Senate that the Chamber of Deputies eventually leaned towards the proposal made by its President. I think that's some kind of symbolism, too. But I wanted to comment on something very sensitive and, personally, a little uncomfortable for me, because I'm in this schizophrenic situation. On the other hand, I would very much like to raise my hand for the amendment from Mrs Šlechtová, I confess to this, even because I can very well imagine the situation of our compatriots who are now hoping, and here also Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček supported this by arguing that this ministry is ready for this, he is not here now, or a correspondence vote. I've always been positive about it myself, and I've always been in favour of it being in the programming statement, and I'm glad it's there, even though I'm not happy if it's an unfulfilled task, of course. On the other hand, if I speak again in those terms of justice, there should be some justice. And we're having this debate here in plenary, and it should be here, it really doesn't play. We didn't have room. And that's what Mr. Nacher said again. That's why I say my performances are more of a gloss. So rightly so. We have a need to discuss this. We also need to deal with the arguments put forward by the Ministry of the Interior, which pointed out, unlike the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it would not be so easy in the course of the correspondence vote to ensure that the elections are conducted in such a way that they are indisputable. That is, and I think that for a number of members of the YES movement, we would like to vote in favour of the correspondence vote, but forced by the Constitutional Court to do so by this disproportionate, accelerated Quapi. And of course, we can rightly be blamed for making that space before. But I say, and that's not an excuse, none of us counted on pandemics, and even less of us counted on the fact that a Constitutional Court finding would come to the pandemic, I will not now appoint those judges who, although voted in the end, are very well aware that they have put us in a very dangerous situation just in view of the time. So we didn't discuss the issue of the correspondence election, the correspondence vote, enough here in the House. [[12.10 hours]] As far as the Senate is concerned, I also wanted to comment there, because I am glad that the boating method may not be activated, virtually. Basically, it seems that we could really move those terms that I mentioned as optimal by mid-April, in the third vote, to approve the proposal for an amendment to the electoral law and to the Senate, so I hope that this will be achieved and that this method will not therefore be used. And the Senate matters now. And I will also take advantage of the fact that I can call on the Senate from this counter to show us whether it is so state-law, constitutionally conformal and, above all, I hope, aware of the emergency situation, when every insecurity of a citizen, a potential elector, is very bad for the cause. And so if the proposal - and I was at the first meeting, where the senators expressed themselves very clearly and clearly that they are well aware that it is above all our matter, the Chamber of Deputies, and that they will respect it - if they remember it when our proposal, which may now be voted at third reading, will be discussed. I'm very curious. I think that the Senate is a very necessary constitutional institution, and I hope that my hope will be confirmed by discussing them. In conclusion, I would like to say that I believe that the elections which will take place on the basis of what we have already discussed sufficiently thoroughly in the constitutional law committee and what has now been pre-conditioned, I would say, by Mrs Vondráček's substantial amendment, have been simplified and improved, here I think, in the speech by Vice-President Pikal, that, of course, the preferential votes and amendments that Mrs Mr Mr Vildumetzová will be talking about in a short time are very tempting, I very much liked it, but then, when we imagined the possible consequences and what could also happen in certain regions, or perhaps in all regions, we came to the conclusion that Radek Vondráček's amendment is more transparent, clearer, but most importantly, the consequences are more calculated. So that's my statement. And I'm sure you don't suspect me of lobbying here just for a proposal made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and for that reason, I would have suppressed another motion from the background, and in addition, I was elected from an unchosen position in Prague in the last election thanks to preferential votes. But we simply want an adjustment that minimises the risks of any constitutional complaints, or if they do, maximizes the likelihood that such constitutional complaints will be rejected as unfounded. Thank you for your attention and I am keeping my thumbs on all of us and especially the citizens of the Czech Republic so that the third vote will end so that our elections can take place in October in a clear, transparent, understandable, constitutional manner. I'll allow myself to conclude with the adjective - even fairly. Although justice is really a very relative variable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will speak with a factual remark, then with priority rights Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. I will speak, by your means, Mr Vice-President, to Mrs Válková and to that long passage where she tried to explain why she would not support the correspondence vote and therefore did not convince me. Madam, it is very simple. You say it's a good thing the government had it in their programming statement. What's the result? Nothing. The correspondence vote is not related to the Constitutional Court's decision. It doesn't. That means it's ready, we'll vote for it. When you say that you want the citizens of the Czech Republic to be able to vote in October, so if the correspondence vote does not pass, you will make it much more difficult to exercise the right to vote. So if you were serious about how well it is for those citizens who will not be in the Czech Republic at the time of the election, you would be voting in favour with us today. There's just no risk, it's just politically inappropriate. Otherwise, try to answer my question - I see that you have already signed up for the debate - so what has the government done with the passage from its programming statement by April 7, 2021 all the time. Nothing at all. So that's just excuses. Either you want it, then you can vote with us today for it, or you don't want it, and you vote against it. Of course, make up your mind freely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u59	Mrs Válková will respond with a factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u60	You have not failed me, my dear fellow Member, colleague Stanjur, through you, Mr Vice-President. I was expecting a comment like that from you. I'd just like to get back to you so that you don't interpret the interpretation of why I don't raise my hand for this correspondence vote. I've even confessed here at this point that I'm sorry, because if there was more space and, of course, a discussion, we'd like to vote in favour. So leave the interpretation and interpretation to us, or rather to me, to me. And when it comes to executives and government, you have to ask government officials, I'm not going to speak for them right now, but we've been over it repeatedly, we've gotten to it within our club, but I don't see why I should be here defending our procedures. So it's not like I'm saying anything other than what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. We will continue with the factual remarks. Mr. Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you to a colleague of the Válková. Unfortunately, my colleague, it is very hypocritical and I must give the truth to the words of President Stanjura, because since mid-2018 you have been able to hold a debate here, the proposal has been tabled here, then the House has returned it to recast and after a professional discussion with the Ministry of the Interior has been re-enacted. Unfortunately, you, the government MPs, were the ones who did not want to have the debate. So now they're making excuses to say that that's why I can't raise my hand so that tens of thousands of people living abroad can vote, that's really hypocrisy. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal in a debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I first came forward with the facts, so first of all, the debate that's going on right now, then I'm probably gonna get to my performance. I think the House has had enough time to deal with this, and it could finally decide that, because the proposal for a correspondence vote was once submitted, it was returned for revision, it was recast, it was re-submitted, it is now here in the legislative process, it is just waiting for a ride. Moreover, when we were discussing the European elections law, a technical amendment, I also put forward a correspondence choice, and at the same time, so that our citizens who live abroad can vote in the European elections in the embassy. What we normally allow our citizens in all other elections, where citizens of other European countries can vote in European elections in embassys, may vote in correspondence, some may vote electronically, but we simply do not allow them to vote in those embassies. But you turned this down, too. Plus, there's been a long-term pressure for the government to present the election management law, where the correspondence election was contained, and we were always assured that it would be presented. In the end, it didn't happen, and I believe it won't be able to make it now. So just promises of mistakes. The proposals were here, and the opportunity to deal with it was, and now we can decide. I believe everyone has a clear opinion, it was said here that it was possible to do so. If you don't think it's possible to do this in these elections, that it can't be technically done, there's a proposal that introduces it from any future election, so we can go this way. I would therefore end my factual point and move on to the actual output. I adequately applied to respond to Mrs Jarošová, because she raised a problem here that I also considered important, and that when the Constitutional Court ruling first came out, where it seemed that there would simply be no clause for the coalition, or a 5% clause, that is combined with what we now have in the Rules of Procedure, it would allow a coalition to be composed here after the elections, I don't know, from five entities to just spread out into individual three-member or even less-membered parliamentary clubs, which, of course, would all claim the position of party chairman with priority rights, the position of club president with priority rights and background of the Chamber of Deputies, where there is simply no room. So that's something I also consider necessary to deal with. [[12.20 hours]] I'm not going to agree on the method. I have requested the opinion of the legislative department on this matter, which states that, under Paragraph 77 (1) of the Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of It takes at least three Members to establish them. This amendment was introduced into the Act in 2006 in response to the interest of creating the Green Party's membership club. The Greens got here then, and at that time the rule was that at least ten Members were needed. However, since we had the uneven electoral system that was abolished by the Constitutional Court's decision, even if you get 5%, you do not have the guarantee that you have the ten Members that would match it, so it was necessary to amend the law and there was some consensus on how I understood from those who have the historical experience that at least three are collectives and that that is the minimum. I don't know what the real minimum of electoral law is. This proposal, which now seems to be consensual, also allows a political party that exceeds 5% to not get the ten Members to get less, it may be nine, there is probably an opportunity for it to be only eight. It is uneven, we say it, but, as we have said here, we have also retreated in the context of this consensus from some of our completely radically democratic ideas - as has been said, which I am very pleased that I am therefore a radical democrat. So within the club, in order to continue this detour, we will support the consensual proposal if it passes by the majority, of course it's there. In the event that it fails, we can get to the government's proposal of absolute proportionality, so some of us may be staying as radical democrats, but I believe that we will support the consensus in most of the consensus, and of course if we get to the final vote, and there is a consensus that will meet all the basic requirements for the appropriate proportionality, for the 14 regions, and that after the elections, we will, of course, support it. But to continue the problem with the clubs. There were two possible interpretations. So either the parties that run in the coalition cannot form a political club as a coalition, because they are not an independent political party, virtually. for that, they would need ten mandates, and it would not be considered a club created right after the election. That's an absurd interpretation. The second possible interpretation would be that the parties that are running in the coalition simply have no limit on how small the club can have, so if a coalition were to come here within a joint candidacy of the parties and there was an MP per club or per party within it, it could go off and set up an MP club on its own, which is also an absurd interpretation. So I will continue with the interpretation of the legislative department, which says that the formulation of the independent political party is inaccurate and unclear in the context of Section 77. That is why I am proposing the amendment. Indeed, a literal interpretation would not allow a club of Members elected to the House to be formed on the part of a candidate in the coalition, so it would not be possible to set up partial clubs or coalition clubs. Such literal interpretation must be rejected as incorrect to absurd. There is therefore a gap in that provision, in our view, because it does not remember the coalition. Using an analogy, we therefore import that it is possible to establish a club for each party associated with the coalition elections if the club has at least three members. The establishment of one club from the parties running for the coalition elections is also possible. Therefore, we do not identify with the interpretation that at least 10 Members are required to establish political party clubs or a coalition candidate movement in accordance with Section 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thus, this interpretation would allow three-member clubs to be established following the accession of the coalition to the Chamber of Deputies. This is, I think, an appropriate solution that allows us to work and work as well. However, in my opinion, if there are parties in the coalition coming together and they just narrowly exceed the increased clause, then we should put some pressure on the House's procedural and functional time, the costs of the House, etc., so I am putting forward this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I will not agree with Mrs Jarošová that there is no definition in the electoral law of what the party is running for coalition because it is clearly stated that a coalition candidate is considered to be a party if that party submits a coalition candidate. I think that makes these coalitions clear enough. And if we came up with her proposal, it would mean that if any member of another political party, including the fact that there would simply be a representative of some local electoral movement for better Kbely or for the harmonious development of East Bohemia or something like that, if there was one person in an impossible position, then your candidate would be considered a coalition and, in fact, in other regions, for example the Olomouc Region, you would have said that part of the coalition is a better Kbely, which I simply do not consider as an appropriate solution. I think the law clearly defines the coalition. If we wanted to set off in that way that all participation of any member of another political party on the list is considered coalitions, so I say, cancel the coalitions, only independent political parties will run. And if anybody wants to make a pre-election alliance, they're either gonna set up a special election party, which actually happens sometimes in our system anyway, or they're just gonna be one party, and they're just gonna be part of it, and we're gonna have a 5% clause for everyone, and it's gonna be easy for everyone, and no one's gonna be entitled to an MP club after the election, except for the one political party that was the main party. But I don't think that's the way to go, but the proposal isn't on the table right now. So I am proposing an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and all this long output has to do is justify that I respond to the Constitutional Court's decision, that it is not a material completely out of place, but that I am trying to address, in particular, the original proposal, when it seemed that we would have a 5% clause for coalitions that could actually lead to the fragmentation and creation of very small clubs. However, I think it has meaning and purpose now, if we accept the consensus, and it first clarify the language, i.e. should we accept the option with just the three Members, we would leave this. However, in other cases, it also offers some integration pressure when it says that post-election parliamentary clubs need to be set up with seven respectively. eight Members. Because I believe that it really is not appropriate for the functioning of the Chamber of Deputies to be brought here by a coalition party, a two-wheeler, where one party represents a large majority and to it passes through the sticker of three Members and they set up a separate parliamentary club here. Therefore, I propose that if any coalition enters here, so that it is created from balanced partners, or at least that the junior partners are able to reach enough separate Members here, so that they can form a parliamentary club if they should form separate clubs, or whether they establish a coalition club after the elections, or if they have to reach out to what happened in 2002, when the two-wheelers of the Union of Freedom and the Democratic Union and KDU-ČSL and KDU-ČSL Members had to be loaned to the Union of Freedom, so that two separate clubs can be formed to fill the 10-mandat clause. As I said, since there is no guarantee of the entry of the ten Members in the disproportionate system that arises here, we therefore propose the lower figures - seven or eight Members. So much for the justification of this proposal. As I say, it is motivated, in particular, that we do not have a completely fragmented functioning of the House here because of some coalitions, within the palaces of the Chamber of Deputies there is no place to include slowly new clubs and yet only in terms of some procedural processes and such procedural processes as. small clubs, really, if two three-member MPs could veto any procedural procedures here, it would seem to me that we are, after all, under too great a dictatorship of minorities. [[unintelligible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mrs Karla Šlechtová will now speak in the debate, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I have tabled an amendment on the introduction of a correspondence election. Why? I mentioned it here at the second reading, but I don't think it was too much attention because we were driving second reading as well as we're driving a lot of laws. It was that we have a foreign committee, we have a subcommittee for the countrymen I chair, and besides Mr Martínek, who mentioned the story here, so I am getting many, very many. The regionals are asking us to introduce a correspondence election, and I've only taken the liberty of taking small statistics. Since we have 500,000 people out there who are able to vote, and even if 200-300 thousand people can vote, maybe not even that, maybe 100,000 people, we have five political parties or movements in the House that didn't even get 500 thousand votes and sit here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think that it should be of interest to every political party and movement to pursue or to seek the votes of our countrymen abroad. If there were proposals that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of the Interior were not ready to process the correspondence election, we heard the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs here: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ready, my amendment was consulted with them, as well as with lawyers, as well as with legislation and is ready for implementation. I would like to mention that, of course, I hear the attitude of my colleagues here, I can regret it, and that's all I can do about it. Personally, I consider the choice of correspondence to be correct. We've been discussing this on the Foreign Committee for three and a half years, we've been discussing it on the Sub-Committee for Countrymen, and I'm going to vote in person for that. And I would like to ask those colleagues who are still reluctant to support Amendment C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will take a real note. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u68	I'm sorry, just for a very short time. The 500,000 citizens who have the right to vote, similar in fact to the amount or the number of citizens abroad, the Slovak Republic, which has introduced the correspondence choice, introduced the possibility of voting from abroad, votes for about 10,000 citizens, the number gradually rises as people get used to it, but it has been introduced there for a long time, there are no major problems with it. So this is the result that we could expect ourselves in some perspective of three or four parliamentary terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will now appear, Mr Jan Jakob will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before voting on the third reading, I would also like to comment on the amendment to the electoral law. You all see in my materials that I have tabled an amendment, which I have already made a very precise comment here at second reading, and I understand and thank all those who have participated and sought some agreement on the electoral law itself. Nevertheless, before the vote, I would like to say that, as everyone here appears, in the constitutional law or the Constitutional Court, which attacked several things, and one thing was that each party had to have a different number of votes for one Member's mandate, so I really believe that by the proposal that is being put forward at this moment, this issue is settled. There is no way that I am still convinced that the second thing that was constantly tilting was the equality of votes in individual regions. As my colleague Patrik Nacher has repeatedly announced here today, who was here with me trying to assert that the most just form to make this settlement would be one constituency, but unfortunately there was no political consensus and we still have 14 electoral regions. The point is that in the second criticism or, respectively, in the second round, where the individual mandates are still to be allocated to political parties, so first there was a proposal for individual political parties to decide this, and this proposal was not supported, which is why the amendments were here, and that is why I came up with an amendment to obtain the mandate of the candidate to the Chamber of Deputies, who will receive the most preferential votes. I would still like to tell all my fellow Members whether they have taken a picture of the bill, what it would have looked like in the election four years ago. I would like to say that, as it was said, the weight of the voice - and you all know that I am from the smallest, Karlovy Vary region, where the Karlovy Vary region was the most inclined - that the voter's weight is smaller than in the other or larger region, so I really am not convinced that this proposal will straighten out. Unfortunately, in the Karlovy Vary Region, and now, I am sorry, I will transfer it to the Civil Democratic Party, which, for example, won around 9 percent four years ago in the Karlovy Vary Region, but did not receive the mandate of a Member. If I were to rethink the proposal that is now being tabled here, if the elections had already been held according to this proposal, the Civil Democratic Party would not have regained its mandate. In fact, the situation will be that the Karlovy Vary Region, which has always had five Members, will receive two Members in the first round and may win two other Members in the second round. This means that the smallest region will lose its Members in this proposal and may lose up to three Members. And to whom do the MPs join? Most of the time, as it's set up, of course, to whoever has the biggest rest. And when I look at it and I make this proposal about what it would look like, and the regions - especially the larger regions - I don't want to specify them here - they're going to have more Members. Just when we look at it, you don't have to get a 5% threshold in a region, and yet you get a Member's mandate, and you get 10, 11 percent in a region, and you don't get a Member. We're getting to the same thing again. Citizen of the Karlovy Vary Region, Liberec Region is not responsible for living in a region with few voters. That is why I really believe that this proposal does not address the other side, because we are going to get into the same situation, and it will be said again, and there will be cases where those political parties have won 9, 10, 11 % in these regions, but they have not yet obtained the mandate of a Member. I have also made such a comparison that, for example, it was in the Karlovy Vary Region about 9 per cent four years ago that they did not have the mandate of a Member, but for example they gained 7,5 per cent in the Moravian-Silesian Region, which means even less, and they had two Members. I'm just saying this for comparison, don't take it that it's on this example. Same with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Karlovy Vary Region 8,15 %, they did not receive the mandate, they did not have Members, but, for example, in Prague it was only 4.6 percent and they had already obtained Members. That is why I think that this proposal from the voter's point of view and from the point of view of the journey, that it would therefore be in the other cruelty, if we look again, that most likely in the second round will be divided by a maximum of 30 mandates, so I really believe that if it were the way of the preferential vote, that is, based on the will of the electorate, that the way is the right way. [[12.40 hours]] Clearly, finding a match was not easy. The question will be, how will the Senate stand up to it? And it's clear that even after the election, it's going to be evaluated in some way. I am merely pointing out here at the moment that what the Constitutional Court has been talking about regarding the equality of votes in individual regions, so I believe that at this point in time this proposal has not yet resolved this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal, then Mr Tomáš Martínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. Just for a little while. We have already taken part in this discussion at second reading, but it is not possible to compare percentages. The mandates come with votes, not percentages. If a region is five times smaller, it takes five times more percent, but also votes to gain a mandate. When I look at the simulations of how I have made them, as my colleague Martínek mentioned here, it is on the election model.pirati.cz, I thank him so much for creating this tool, everyone can compare individual systems there, compare individual choices, how it would look sometime since 2006 and how individual systems in individual elections would work, etc., including models of different preferential methods etc. The only model that is not there right now is Mrs Vildumetzová's proposal, because it would require the very preferential votes to be included in the consideration of where those mandates are yet to come. And within them, we didn't pull the data back when we made it three years ago. And I would like to point out that there are five mandates for the Karlovy Vary Region, both in the model with the modification of President Vondráček and in the model according to mine. It's just, if the second scrutinium is adjusted, it's gonna work out. The Karlovy Vary Region will require 24 400 votes per mandate, which is fully in line with e.g. The Central Bohemia Region, where even 25 000 votes will be needed, or Prague, where more than 25 000 votes will also be needed. On the contrary, 24,500 votes will be needed in the Zlín Region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u73	Sorry, time's up. [[Messenger. Thank you.]] Mr Tomáš Martínek, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. Probably most of what the previous speaker said, I'd just like to ask that they don't use such manipulation that there are percentages used here in different regions when some region is just different in size. Like when we have a region with half a million voters, and a region with 100,000 voters, it's clear that five percent will be a different number of mandates. Five percent of the hundred thousand and five percent of the half million are just a completely different number of mandates. If we want to maintain some equality between the regions, that is what Mr Pikal's amendment is about, which ensures that each region, even the small ones, and the Liberec ones, and the Karlovarský ones and others, will retain the number of mandates depending on how large the region is. So that, by chance, some region will not receive more mandates or fewer mandates due to the remnants in the event of Mr Vondráček's adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to Mr. Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. I'm, of course, the bill proposal for the machine that's being supported here, so I did an analysis that I'm sure is traceable in some way, and you're wrong. Within the first round and the first scrutiny, the Karlovy Vary Region would have won two Members, and the second scrutiny would depend on how much the political party, the delegation movement, will then receive. And that's what gets those who have the biggest leftovers. If I took it four years ago, we'd get two more. That means four. And we had five. And I understand it's based on the number of voters. But are the citizens of the Karlovy Vary, Liberec Region and other smaller regions responsible for living in these regions? And that these regions and their weight of votes at that moment have less weight? Or what are they supposed to do at that point in time to get the Karlovy Vary Region's mandate? It may be a paradoxical situation that we have three senators at the moment, together with the Pilsen Region, and it may also happen within this model that the Karlovy Vary Region will have two MPs. I think, in view of the fact that the Chamber of Deputies decides on the budget and such things, that this is certainly not the right way. I'm just pointing it out. I understand how hard it is to find a way. But I am merely saying and I am convinced that what the Constitutional Court has challenged, so that this proposal will not, in my opinion, be able to straighten it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. Just very quickly, and then we're going to have to compare the mathematical models, because one of us is obviously wrong. Maybe it's me, maybe it's you, but we need to find out where the truth is. Because according to my calculations, if I take together in 2017, the first and second scrutinium, that it is based on the Karlovy Vary Region, five mandates. I am not saying that there cannot be a situation where fewer will end up there, so I am putting forward my amendment, which seeks to achieve that, in the second crisis, those mandates, when they divide, do not come in a very uneven way between the regions. I guess that's good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. Just for a very short time. If you look at the election models.pirati.cz, for example, if Mr.Benda's comprehensive adjustment was adopted and then whether Vondráček's proposal or Mr.Pikal's proposal, the Karlovy Vary Region would have according to models for example. a survey of Kantar from March 2021, instead of five mandates, even six. The same goes for other regions. So, yes, it could be an advantage, it could be a disadvantage, but it doesn't decide the size of the region in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob will now be speaking in the debate, at this time the last one to be logged in to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on some amendments. And since I will thank some of them, I would also like to thank my colleague Benda and the entire constitutionally-legal committee for the comprehensive amendment. First of all, I would like to warn my colleague Mračková Vildumetzová about the amendment, because we are discussing this electoral law because the Constitutional Court abolished some parts precisely because some voices were not equal and the system showed injustice in certain parameters. And I fear that it is her amendment that could do the same and perhaps even worse results. Why? Because it can be measured by preferential votes within one candidate within one region, not within all candidates and different regions. The proposal, as it has been tabled, grants mandates in the second scrutiny according to a relative number of preferential votes. Thus, contrary to how much the party has acquired in the region, which clearly favours and introduces the inequality of preferential votes in individual regions and favours smaller regions. And ad absurdum could happen that the aforementioned Karlovy Vary region would ultimately receive five or six mandates in the first scrutinium, and in the second all entities could get a mandate as well, and thus the Karlovy Vary Region would get more mandates than the Králové Hradecký Region, which has more than twice the population. [[12.50 hours]] Of course, the second alternative could be to compare the absolute number of preferential votes. On the contrary, large regions would be favoured here, which I, as a Central Bohemia MP, would like more, but I would still be fundamentally opposed, because, in turn, the weight of the preferential voice in the large region would be significantly greater than in the small one. So I would like to warn you about this proposal, and I would like to thank you for the two proposals which, in contrast to the comprehensive amendment from the IDA, introduce the automatic conversion, whether it is President Vondráček's proposal or Vice-President Pikal's proposal. I would like to comment, and this is even more important to me than what I said a moment ago, on the amendment of my colleague Dominik Feri. This is the correspondence option, in this case exclusively for citizens living or staying abroad. Thank you very much for this proposal and I am convinced that this discussion belongs here at the moment, because the Constitutional Court annulled the provisions precisely because some votes were not equal and there was no fair choice. After all, this also applies to our citizens, who by chance are not in the territory of the Czech Republic in the short term or in the long term. After all, none of us here wants to introduce second-class citizens who will have much - and unfortunately today they have, and because of the pandemic, even more barriers to exercising their constitutional right to vote. I firmly believe that no one has this interest in making citizens, and it doesn't matter if they are in the territory of the Czech Republic or abroad at the time, so that they are not equal. As has been done here, the government has a correspondence option in the programming statement. There was plenty of time for this institute to be introduced and discussed. The proposal was also submitted here from among the opposition, there was discussion about it here, on the basis of which comments were made. The discussion was going on here, and referring to the fact that it didn't happen, I think it's just an excuse. I suspect that those Members who do not raise their hand for the correspondence choice and vote for it simply resigned to justice, to the equality of our citizens and to the principles of democracy. And it doesn't matter what excuse you find for not voting for it. I suspect you won't raise your hand just because it doesn't suit you, that you know the voters abroad won't be able to vote for you. And that is wrong because every citizen has the right to vote. I would like to draw attention to one further aspect, namely that, of course, the electoral law must be discussed by the Senate. And, as is known, in the Senate, they are carefully devoted to our countrymen. This proposal would undoubtedly be welcomed by most senators, and I believe that this would make it easier to discuss it in the upper chamber of Parliament. Therefore, I appeal that we at least approve the correspondence choice from abroad. I would also like to comment on two amendments that do not concern the electoral law concerning the Rules of Procedure of the House. On the contrary, I believe that the debate at this point is redundant, and we should not stick to the amendments and address the establishment of clubs here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's an oversized material compared to what we're supposed to decide. So thank you for your attention, and once again, I am very much intercede for our compatriots, whether they live abroad for a short time or for a long time. Please, let's finally make them citizens of the same category as everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Before I ask for the final words, ladies and gentlemen, just one warning. A key to the Škoda car was found here in the foyer. If any of you belong and you've lost it, it's available here. Is there interest in final words? Is the Minister interested? He's not interested. The rapporteur? He's not interested in the final word, but he's interested in the final word... [[Messenger. Benda wants to speak to the procedure.]] No. He is prepared for us to deal with the amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u84	That's right. Mr Vice-President, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not evaluate the debate, although I have almost felt the slight obstruction of this proposal for some, but I would like us to vote on individual amendments. The procedure you have in front of you in the Chambers of Press 1170/3 - with one exception, please, where I think it is completely unnecessary in point 10 - unvoteable in case G is adopted - we would not be putting forward an indicative vote on variants I, II and III. The first sentence would be dropped there and will simply be voted on variants I, II and III, i.e. 8 Members, 7 Members, 3 Members, as has happened on the constitutionally-legal committee. Otherwise, you've got the procedure in front of you. I will, of course, always present before the individual proposals how they were dealt with by the constitutionally-legal committee and what they contain. The second thing I wanted to say at the moment. The proposals tabled by Vice-President Pikal to me on my amendment H3, I therefore do not consider proposals which correspond to paragraph 95. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I am sorry, but these are changes that, if none of the others is ahead of them, I say from my position as rapporteur that these are not legislative technical amendments that could be made so easily, and that Mr Pikal would either have to submit a motion to repeat the second reading or, if necessary, object to the rapporteur's position. But as rapporteur, I do not consider these proposals to be legislatively technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u85	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal for the procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u86	Yes, thank you. The procedure. I'd like to thank you first for the arrangement at number 10, that we're just gonna go from the biggest club. I think that's a good thing. Then I would like to ask for a change of procedure in vote number four, where the H3 proposal is, that's the exact vending machine, if it could be put forward as a second vote. It will then be easier for us to simply support the proposal by President Vondráček without reservation when the House rejects my proposal. So that's my request to change the procedure. That means vote number four - H3 - to be moved before vote number two - B1. [[13.00 hours]] And then, of course, I disagree with the rapporteur, there's nothing personal about it, I just think that my proposal doesn't change the meaning of the proposal, so the legislative technical changes correspond to the diction of the law, they correspond to the fact that it doesn't change the meaning, it just specifies, so that it can be understood, because actually some of them have been able to surprise me by saying that... which I understand, if it just has to be absolutely perfect, then it needs to be done perfectly. [[gong to vote, speaker not to hear]] It's a tax for discussing it this way in an accelerated manner. So I object, whether the House decides whether or not they are legislative technical changes. Of course, I will fully respect the House's decisions. I think that whether we accept them or reject them, as if they are not legislative technical changes, so that they do not interfere with the importance of the H3 proposal, so of course we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. If I understand correctly, there was a counterproposal against the proposal for a procedure, as the rapporteur put it. No other counterproposal has been made. We'll vote on him. The rapporteur has another word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u88	There were two suggestions, please. The first is the counter-proposal against the procedure, namely that point H3 should be voted before point B1, that is to say, point 4 was put before point B1, and the second was the opposition of the Vice-President to my declaration of his legislative technicality for non-legally technical. I think that we need to deal with both of these proposals, perhaps first with the proposal that aims to move point 4 before point 2 and then with the proposal to object to the non-voting of legislative technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u89	Okay. We will therefore first vote on the counter-proposal, the proposal for a pre-election, as was said by Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 106 Members registered, for 18, against 45, the proposal was not adopted. We will now vote on the objection raised by Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal on the subject of legislative technical matters. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 103 Members registered, for 15, against 49, this proposal was also not adopted. And now we will vote on the draft procedure as presented by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 102 Members registered, for 99, against no one, the proposal was adopted. We'll follow the approved procedure. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. As point 1, we were supposed to have proposals for legislative technical changes, but there are none. So we approach point 2, which is Amendment B1, which is Mr Radek Vondráček's amendment concerning the vending machine in the second scrutiny. You have him on page 5 of the joint motion. Will the Minister please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u91	Initiating vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u92	The Constitutional Committee recommends the adoption of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u93	I declare the vote void. I checked you all out on that occasion. Not on purpose, but I think we can deal with it. Please sign up again with your voting cards. And now the vote is in session. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 100 Members signed up, for 93, against no one, the proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u94	The adoption of Amendment B1 makes proposals D, which is Mrs Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová's amendment on preferential terms and H3, and Mr Vojtěch Pikal's amendment, unvoted because it has already been decided. We are therefore going to point 5, which is the amendment under letter C, which is Mrs Karla Šlechtová's amendment to the correspondence vote. The Constitutional Committee did not adopt an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u95	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 100 Members registered, for 38, against 22, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u96	The next proposal, which is voted on at the moment, is the E1 proposal, which is the amendment of Dominik Feri, Marek Benda and Marek Výborný, also for correspondence votes with effect for this parliamentary term. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u97	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered by 101 Member, for 36, against 23, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u98	The next proposal is under paragraph 7 and it is Amendment E2, once again the Lords of Members Dominik Feri, Marek Benda and Marek Výborný for the correspondence vote, this time in the option with postponed effect from 1. 1. 2022, which means that these elections would no longer apply. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u99	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 100 Members registered, for 37, against 21, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u100	The next proposal is under point 8. This is an amendment under letter F, which is Marek Benda's amendment, mine, which deals with the financing of political parties and political movements in the case of coalitions and an increased treaty for these coalitions. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u101	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree. Sorry, F. Sorry, sorry. Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, Mr 101, in favour of 48, against 11, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u102	Thank you. The next proposal is the proposal under letter G; it is Mrs Karla Maříková's amendment, which addresses the question of coalitions, respectively. their establishment in the electoral law and in the Rules of Procedure. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u103	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, Mr 101, for 13, against 47, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u104	We are now coming to the amendment under paragraph 10, which is Amendment H1, where there are three variants. As we agreed on the procedure, we will not vote in orientation, but we will simply go from the highest to the lowest option. It is about whether the establishment of post-election parliamentary clubs should be regulated in the Rules of Procedure. There are three options. The first option says that such an MP must have at least eight members. The Constitutional Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u105	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 13, 101 Members registered, for 15, against 48. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u106	The second variant of the same is that the MP's club can be set up at seven members. The Constitutional Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u107	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 14, 101 Members registered, for 14, against 47. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u108	The third option is also the establishment of the club, only with the number of votes three. The Constitutional Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u109	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 15, 101 Members registered, for 12, against 63. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u110	We are moving on to paragraph 11, which is the proposal under the letter I of Mr Jakub Michálek, who concerns regulation or deregulation of parts of the electoral campaign. The Constitutional Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u111	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 16, 101 Members registered, for 21, against 42. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. This dealt with all the amendments which were directly to point H, which was the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, which we took as the basis of negotiations. So we will proceed to vote number 12, which would be about the amendment under letter A, that is, the comprehensive proposal of the constitutionally-legal committee, as amended by exactly one approved amendment under B1 by Mr Vondráček. At the moment this proposal is approved, the other proposals become unvoting. The Constitutional Legal Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u113	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 17, 101 Members entered, for 92, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. In that case, Mr President, we can already vote on the bill as a whole, because the B2, H2 proposals and both variants of the government bill are unvoting. I would just like to say that, after the vote, we should still vote in accordance with paragraph 3 of the constitutionally-legal committee on any recommendation or the rapporteur's mandate to present this opinion in the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u115	Yes, thank you. This is Mr. Marian Jurečka with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I have only briefly, briefly. There was a debate about this before the vote itself. But I have to say that when I took the Czech Government's June 2018 programming statement, I turned to page 20 of Homeland Security and Public Administration, I want to assure the voters and supporters of this coalition, which the coalition promised in its programme statement that they would simplify the electoral rules so that citizens would be able to facilitate access to elections, including the introduction of correspondence elections, the abolition of local jurisdiction for issuing electoral licenses, that we would certainly try our best to fulfill it after the next elections, when the promises were being made, they fell here repeatedly, and until the moment when the Prime Minister and his narrowest team found out that it would not be completely in his hands, so he refused. And I must say that the pseudo-arguments that have been said here, that cannot be prepared, so Members who did not vote for the option, that it would apply for future elections, not for these autumn - correspondence choices for our citizens abroad for future elections - then I do not understand, honourable Members, why do you write these things here at all, why do you hang the bells on people's noses, why do you say that you support these things when, in the vote itself and in the situation where arguments about failing to make this happen, you are unable to support this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to stand up for the government at all, no way. But on the other hand, I must say that the correspondence vote in the United States of America in the election of the President has shown us its averted face. And I personally -- you can bang all you want, I think it was a regular voter scam. [[♪ Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] And until these things are explained, until they just find out how it really was, I'm never gonna raise my hand for it, and I'm glad that the government MPs didn't raise their hand for it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-07-ps2017-097-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. At this point, I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended, pursuant to House press 1170, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 18, 101 Members registered, for 96, against 1. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. We will now look at the following resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies in accordance with Section 3 (2) '. 1 of Law No. 300/2017 Coll., on the principles of conduct and intercourse of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, instructs Members of the Chamber of Deputies Marek Benda to justify in the Senate the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies to the House of Press 1170." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 19, 101 Member, for 98, against 1. We have accepted the motion. That concludes the discussion of this point. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 14.30 hours after lunch break. At the same time, I conclude the 97th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
