ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u1	547. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or to the Government of the Czech Republic as a whole and to other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interpelations first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, at the time between 14.30 and 16.00, to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I draw attention to all Members of the Government and to those who are intersected, that if the interpelling of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is exhausted, the intersecting of other members of the Government will immediately begin. I am now giving the floor to Mr Marian Bojka, who was first drawn to give an interview on the deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic in the affected areas. Mr. Michálek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Prime Minister, it might seem that the interpellation should be directed rather towards the Minister of Defense of Metnar, but I think, given the importance, I was right about the Prime Minister. In advance, I want to say that there is no way I want to question any military or rescue forces involved in the affected areas after the tornado, because I know how hard it is to fight mainly natural disasters. I was in the front line myself. When everyone's running, you have to go. But I am convinced because I have personal experience, our people, members of the Free Bloc and sympathizers in those areas helped both materially and financially and simply with their hands, and in many of these villages, the army was simply not seen. The deployment of 150 soldiers, and I'm not sure how many types of technology there were, because the army really is able to deploy the best and most difficult technique in the fight against such disasters, so I wonder why there wasn't enough of that technique or enough of those soldiers. Personally, I think there may have been a failure of communication between the chieftain and the mayor and the army, because the commander of the county asked for help, and I'm not sure if he correctly evaluated it. I'm quite interested in the Prime Minister's opinion of whether or not the army's aid was sufficient, because I know how the army helped in the huge floods in 1997 and 2002, hat down, but here I think it may have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u3	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to clean up the place. [[Member Boyko spoke without a respirator.]] In the meantime, the Prime Minister can prepare himself for an answer. If Mr Bojko has not yet been warned today that he does not have his nose and mouth covered in accordance with the Government's regulation, I am reminding him at this moment. [[The KPS worker disinfects the pitch.]] Thank you. Now I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a great army. I think our army is always ready to help us, and it's always helped us. In the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic, it plays a key role as well as in the integrated central management team. When the South Moravia tornado hit, I was at a meeting in Brussels, and as soon as Mr. Grolich called me, I contacted the Chief of Staff of Opat, and I talked to him about it. initial information about the tornado was obtained by the army on Thursday 24th June at 20.54 hours, crisis crew sat down at 22.30 and the request for deployment of the army came subsequently at 22.38, so immediately after the crisis crew sat down. Right on the second day at 8 a.m. the army deployed heavy engineering equipment and over 150 soldiers were called to rescue work, so on Friday 25 June early in the morning the soldiers of the engineering battalion from Olomouc, followed by soldiers mechanized battalion from Bučovice and from Bechyně to Olomouc was also immediately moved to the grooming technique so that if necessary the soldiers were able to react quickly. On Monday 28 June 200 soldiers were deployed to rescue work in the South Moravian Region and another grooming separation with heavy specialized technology from the engineered battalion of Bechyně. Hundreds more soldiers were ready for emergency in the home units. I would like to clarify the conditions for the deployment of the army in disasters or in other serious situations threatening the lives, health and property, or to eliminate the consequences of the disaster. The deployment of the army into rescue work is legislatively regulated by the Act on the Integrated Rescue System and the Act on Armed Forces and approved by the Chief of Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic at the request of the Fire Rescue Corps or the Governor of the Region. I also spoke to General Ryba, head of firefighters. Government approval is needed for the liquidation work and the order for deployment in the case of liquidation works in South Moravia was submitted by the Minister of Defence in accordance with the Act on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic. At an extraordinary meeting, the government approved a regulation that allows up to 1,000 soldiers to deploy to destroy the work after the tornado and windstorm. It's due by the end of August. So the soldiers under this law strengthen the components of the integrated rescue system in places and in situations that are based on the demands of the captains and operational and information centers of the Fire Rescue Corps. So they always run the operation and the army, even though they were in the media space, people said there weren't enough soldiers, but the soldiers were there as much as they were asked for. The soldiers helped to remove the consequences of the natural disaster according to the instructions of the commander of the intervention, who was the Fire Rescue Corps, who played and played a key role. As far as I know, at one point, there were over 1,000 firemen. They were covering the roofs, cleaning up the debris, helping in the stockrooms and at the contact points of the crisis crew. For the second week in South Moravia also members of active backup from Brno are there completely voluntarily, on site already 12 hours after the devastating storm. [[14.40 hours]] Given the current situation where, following the decision of the intervention commander, this is the General Director of the Fire Rescue Corps, there is a gradual change in the task defined as rescue and destruction work for reconstruction, part of the soldiers was withdrawn and 155 soldiers with 90 pieces of engineering remain on the scene.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u5	Time, Prime Minister, is up. Mr Bojko is interested in an additional question, please. Before they arrive at the microphone, I will introduce the House with an apology from Home Secretary Hamáček, who apologizes for the afternoon meeting for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u6	Prime Minister, there's no way I was questioning the military's work, I respect the soldiers, I respect all units of the rescue system. Here we have colleagues who drive ambulances, save lives, I really appreciate them. I respect firefighters immensely, firefighters are always in the front line, and I have friends among them, I know what it's like to be the first to be in an accident when people are dying and you're unable to help them quickly and so on. I'm sure my colleague Brázdil here could tell the story. But I'm interested in your opinion, are you really convinced that there were sufficient numbers of soldiers and heavy machinery, because we have learned that in a lot of villages people were just waiting desperately. There was plenty of water, food needed, but they needed the hands, the hands, the help, the heavy equipment, and in some villages they just didn't get it in the first few days, people were really desperate and they were in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u7	Time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask you to clean up the place again. [[Disinfection of the speaker's desk.]] If the Prime Minister is interested, then he can answer an additional question. Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u8	All I can say is that the response of all the rescue forces and the entire state apparatus was quick, completely professional, and for that is a huge thank you to everyone. To all those who helped, who helped, and of course all for solidarity, so the deployment of the army, I repeat, completely corresponds to the demands of the Fire Rescue Corps and, of course, Mr. Governor, the mayors, when the army, if necessary, had a significantly higher number of soldiers and techniques ready for assistance in South Moravia. So for me - I think it went very professionally, and again, the crisis crew worked, the army was available, is available. So I'm sure I have no reason to criticize anyone, but working with the Governor is very good. He was in our government this afternoon, we were dealing with the amount of damage, we agreed that he would provide us with a very specific overview of mostly all the properties owned by municipalities and regions on the government in the last week of July, so that before the government's holiday in August, we could sort it out. So for me, I think it's a big thank you to everyone who's involved, and I'd like to do that again. But if there was anything in particular, of course, we can check it out, but I've been on the scene twice, and I haven't noticed any complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u9	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek will now intersect the Prime Minister on the transparency of electoral campaign expenditure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, fellow Members, transparency of public money is certainly a big issue; indeed, the ANO movement ran with it in the elections, and it is clear that whoever has the money for the election campaign is in order, then he can keep order in public finances and we need not worry that taxpayers' money is being stolen. I would like to ask about the letter received by the citizens of the Czech Republic, which you sent, which supposedly went to all households, and I do not care about the content, the content is not about the interpelation, but about the cost of this letter, or the cost of its printing, paper, delivery and so on, both the costs actually paid and the usual costs. I looked at the transparent account that the YES movement has for the purposes of the election campaign to the Chamber of Deputies, and there I did not find any expenses relating to the creation of this letter. There are only 10 expenses in this transparent account that are higher than CZK 5,000, so it is a transparent account with Komerční banka. So I wanted to ask you what the cost of the letter was, the sum of the sum, why it is not in that transparent account, who paid the letter, who was the contractor of the letter, and what is the maturity of the amount for the payment of the letter, if any. I also wanted to ask how much the ANO movement has already exhausted within the limit of the election campaign, the CZK 90 million, and in connection with the invoices that are on the electoral account for Mr Marek Prchal amounting to CZK 60,500 a month, so I wanted to ask if Mr Prchal has other sources of remuneration from the government, from ministries, from state companies or other authorities that are in the sense of the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u11	Time, Mr. Ambassador. [[- Thank you.]] Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer if he wants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u12	Thank you for asking, even if the interpellation is for the members of the government or it is an interpellation for the Prime Minister and it does not belong here, so I will be happy to answer you. Mr. Prchal has no income other than the ANO movement. I'm not aware of it, and I'm sure he doesn't, because I'm strictly guarding it, and I don't know about it, he's definitely only being paid out of the YES movement. We are not campaigning as opposed to you, who also campaign in Brussels, we do not. We have to take care of the effects of the tornado, we have to deal with vaccinations, our government is busy, and we don't have time to campaign like you do, and now, in fact, the House ends next week, so you're gonna have two months of vacation, but we're gonna have to work, our government, all summer. So I'm sure our finances are fine, we've always had them. As for the letter, all the cargo of the letter goes to the YES movement. The letter is the subject of a complaint because we are receiving - I would also like to call on all citizens who have not received the letter to write to me - photos that the letter ends in containers, so someone is throwing it into a container. I don't even want to talk here, which community threw all those letters in a dumpster, so I don't have to cause any political clashes again. So, of course, the letter will appear on the bill if we get an invoice that we approve and then we cash it out, and if the order is properly billed, then it will be paid off and everyone will see it in a transparent account. So if we didn't get the invoice, plus there's a complaint -- such a strange way that the supplier wouldn't deliver the letter and people would tell us that they didn't get it, then, of course, when it comes, we'd charge it and cash it. So, Mr. Ambassador, you're worried about nothing at all. We have very transparent accounts, and as soon as the invoice comes, of course we'll put it on account and pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u13	Thank you. I agree that, of course, the interpellation should concern primarily the members of the government, but I have left the opportunity to answer, and when it has been used, I welcome it. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So I want to ask you again, because you had to send an order for sure, how much the letter cost, what the price is, or what the contract was, who was the supplier, who paid it. These are all the data to be public in your transparent account. What's the maturity of those invoices because you didn't mention anything here. And I think it would be desirable if you sent a letter to three million people, and it is part of the electoral campaign, so that you can make clear these issues concerning expenditure paid out of the budget of political parties, which, of course, depend on the state budget. And I think this information should be heard here. People have a right to it. So I'm gonna ask you for a follow-up answer to questions you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u15	Thank you. If the Prime Minister wants to answer, he can. I see he's interested, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u16	Well, I no longer know how to answer the honourable Member. [[With laughter.]] Once again, when the invoice arrives... [[Michálek from the bench responds.]] What about the order? I'm asking you, where did Bartoš order a plane to Brussels? To do the Fifth Column? I'm not. What's it to you anyway? If we pay for it, it'll be in the account, and it's a few million. As far as I can remember, it's about $6 million in order, and we're claiming it. So if we pay for it, it'll be in the account. And your questions don't belong here at all. I'm the Prime Minister here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u17	Thank you. And I will now ask Mr Kaňkovský, who will interpelise on the subsidy to mitigate the effects of the corroding calamity in 2020. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u18	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-President, dear colleagues, colleagues. I have a question for the Prime Minister about the crusty calamity. As is generally known, the years 2019 and 2020 were the most tragic in terms of the effects of bark sludge, both in terms of the volume of the forests affected and the amount of timber harvested. And while subsidies were paid to owners in 2019 to mitigate the effects of bark sludge, for 2020, or for 2020, this title has not yet been written out, despite the fact that timber prices in 2020 have fallen to the lowest level in the last maybe 20 years. So my question, Prime Minister, is whether the Ministry of Agriculture, by definition the government, will issue this grant title, for which especially small and medium-sized landowners are waiting. I'm from the Vysočina region, where the forest infrastructure is the most fragmented. There is the largest number of small forest owners, where their size is somewhere between one and ten hectares. And how much is the government considering this subsidy if it is considering it? In fact, if this did not happen, especially for elderly people, who are often owners of the forest land, they will not have the strength and resources to replant the forest land and continue to care for it. And we all know the cruststorm isn't over yet. So my question is whether the government is considering publishing the grant title and how much for 2020. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u19	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u20	I must say, and thank you for asking me that it is very spicy, that a KDU-ČSL Member is asking me this, and I will tell you why. Because when your chairman was the Minister of Agriculture, he didn't put a penny on the bark. Not only did he not give a crown, but he gave almost nothing on forestry support, and these were great budget times, and he even forgot about the farmers. In September 2017, he promised 3.5 billion for drought, and that was what we were dealing with as a new government. I think we had 15 billion 610 million in support of forest support in 2020, of which 7 billion per bark. So it's very spicy that you KDU ask me that question when your chairman didn't do anything about it. [[with laughter]] In 2021, we give $16 billion of $120 million to forest support, including $7 billion to bark, because during the period of your chairman's ministry, you did nothing for the woods and you let them be destroyed by a crust. So I'm very sorry, and of course we have to do this. The Minister of Agriculture has prepared material for the government to request the release of the necessary funds for the third phase of the financial contribution to mitigate the effects of the barking calamity in the forests for the damage incurred in 2020. These funds are not yet part of the approved state budget for 2021, but Minister Schillerová, in cooperation with Minister Toman, is handling this, so I think it is on the right track. The financial contribution to the reduction of the impacts of the barking calamity in the woods for 2019 was received by 9,900 applicants and 6,000 beneficiaries received by 2020, the rest this year, this year. The Ministry provided 4 billion non-state organizations and 2.5 billion state foresters. This contribution, of course, is primarily used to forest the shavings produced by bark mining, to take care of young forests and to administer the forest or to maintain the forest transport network. Under our government, huge billions are going to support forestry and bark, so I'm glad you're asking, because we inherited the crust disaster from the previous government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u21	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u22	The Prime Minister is known to attack if he doesn't have arguments. I didn't attack you, Prime Minister. I asked whether there would be subsidies on the impact of the reduction of the crust sludge in 2020. Okay, you attacked. I just want to ask, who was the finance minister in the last government? Question number one. And then I want to ask you when the crusty calamity really started, because we in those woods, because I'm from the Highlands, we know that the worst happened in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. And if you have any idea that the minister, ex-minister Jurečka, was walking and spreading bark in the woods, then I think that's a very naive idea. But really, my question was, "Will you write the grant title?" You answered me, thank you for that, but I think you could have forgiven the attacks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u23	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u24	These are not attacks, Mr. Ambassador. That's the orange column table is bark, and there was nothing for your minister. [[shows the evidence.]] It should have been dealt with by now in 2017. In September, I was no longer Minister of Finance, if you ask me, Sobotka fired me in May. So it's just for drawing. So I'm just saying: yes, we do, unlike your Chairman KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u25	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr Martin Kupka will now be intersecting in the matter of the Ball Lightning event in the Czech Republic... Sorry, sorry. Mr Jakub Janda will now intersect on the implementation of the action plan for sport. We'll go back to the woods later. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the concept of promoting sport 2016 to 2025 is considered one of the most important documents for promoting and developing sport in the Czech Republic. However, the National Sports Agency, under which all the sport agenda from the Ministry of Education has passed, has not yet come up with a similarly extensive strategy. We are already in the second half of the implementation of this concept and its results are still limping in some parts. [[15.00 hours]] However, the National Sports Agency, under which all the sport agenda from the Ministry of Education has passed, has not yet come up with a similarly extensive strategy. We are already in the second half of the implementation of this concept and its results are still limping in some parts. For example, young people's mobility is still falling. On the contrary, the number of children who suffer from overweight or obesity is increasing. New solutions to the financing of sport, which also mentioned the concept, did not come up either. There is no advantage for socially responsible companies, sports clubs are increasingly or less dependent on income from self-government. In addition, due to the Coronavirus epidemic, many sports clubs discontinued their activities or were forced to interrupt them. Many children thus found a vision of joy not in the movement and joy of true victory, but comfort in a home at the computer. Overall, the current state of the Czech sports environment behind the surrounding states is very limping. In this context, I am asking you. What condition is the implementation of the concept of sport support 2016 to 2025 now? Which points of the concept do you consider to be almost or completely fulfilled and which, on the contrary, fail to fulfil? When will the National Sports Agency come with an updated strategy for sport development in the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u27	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u28	Thank you for asking. The National Sports Agency's action plan contains eight strategic objectives in seven areas. The first area is the legislative framework for sport. Measure number one is to complete the institutional security of the area of sport within the Czech Republic in connection with the creation of the National Sports Agency and the transfer of this area from the Ministry of Education to the National Sports Agency. The implementation is that the National Sports Agency has been established, 1. 8. 2019 and from 1 January 2021, all the agendas relating to sport from the Ministry of Sports to the National Sports Agency and to 1. 6. 2021 was the last demonstration of the employees of the Department of Sport from MŠMT to the National Sports Agency. Selection procedures are ongoing for all available positions of the National Sports Agency. Measure two - process analysis for the preparation of a new law on sport. The National Sports Agency is preparing the documentation for the preparation of the new Sport Support Act. Measure three - submit rules on financing activities and mutual cooperation between resort sports centres. The implementation is that a proposal for new rules on financing activities and mutual cooperation of resort sports centres has been drawn up. From the side of the resort centers were sent comments which are incorporated into the proposal. Another area is the transparency of State aid for sport. Measure number four - ensure the introduction of information from the Register of Sport into practice. Implementation - a register of sports organisations and other applicants has been launched where no aid is granted to an applicant not listed in the register. At present, the testing and verification of the registration in the Register of Sport is under way so that the National Sports Agency is able to gradually switch to the full verification of the authorised persons responsible for the grant applicant. At the same time, a request is prepared for the opinion of the main eGovernment architect on the full digitization of all the National Sports Agency's agendas, including the completion and completion of the Sport Register. Measure five - strengthen the control system in sport to a level equivalent to the allocation of funds to promote sport. Implementation - at the level of the organisation of the National Sports Agency operates from 1 January 2021 the control department, which currently controls the sample of the grant funds provided according to the approved control plan. In the future, the National Sports Agency has an ambition to control more finance than was customary in previous periods. Measure number six - define the categorization of sport in the Czech Republic. Implementation - with the gradual categorization of sport is envisaged by the National Sports Agency in calls for 2022 and further, when the challenges will be defined according to the individual groups of sport, especially in the field of representation and support for talented young people. Field of development of sports infrastructure. Measure seven - define priorities for the development of sport infrastructure. Implementation - priorities for this area have been defined in the area of sport infrastructure development. The aid is based on local sports facilities, basic infrastructure for municipalities and cities and regional sports areas. For 2022, an overview of the needs for the renewal of sports sites should be prepared. Area of development of sports activity in the Czech Republic. Measure eight - linking the activities of qualified sports experts to the school environment in order to increase the mobility activity taking place from the level of kindergarten schools. The National Sports Agency prepares a call to promote the movement of children in kindergartens through training of pedagogical staff and training of kindergarten children with trainers and instructors of sports organisations. New challenges will also be adapted for 2022. Measure nine - define the roles of sports organisations in the sport environment. Implementation - the measure is related to the preparation of a new law on sport. The partial definition of roles is determined by the individual challenges and their purpose of support. Measure 10 - coordinate sports policy with regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u29	The Member must be interested in an additional question. So please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u30	Thank you for the floor. So I want to thank the Prime Minister for telling me all of this, what is being prepared or what is being fulfilled. But I would still like him to answer the question I asked, which points of the concept he considers fulfilled and which points he still thinks are not fulfilled and will be fulfilled. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u31	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u32	Come on, I said all those strategies at the beginning, and I'm also here to report on the implementation. So coordinate sports policy with regions, secure the European Union's Presidency in the field of sport. There the sports agency prepares, is involved in the working group of the Council of the European Union, was the selected topic for the Presidency - sustainable available sports infrastructure. Furthermore, there is implementation of measures leading to gender equality in sport. In the framework of gender equality measures in sport, the NSA is preparing to support women's teams of collective sports for next year. Another measure 13 - to ensure support in the field of parasports in terms of measures relating to the support of handicapped athletes following the strategic plan for the development of parasports in the Czech Republic for the years 2020 - 22. Here the NSA processed, published, announced, called for the concept of developing individual types of sports for the disabled. The aim of the challenge is the gradual establishment of a comprehensive parasport strategy, together with the setting of democratic, transparent and equal conditions for all target groups in each sport sector for disabled athletes. Measure 14 - to ensure that funds directed towards promoting sport are gradually increased. I think it's record-breaking. This year's budget is 10.4 billion. There has been an increase of 2.4 billion compared to 2020, by 4.34 billion since 2019 and by 7.9 billion even compared to 2015. So we're assuming next year's budget at the same rate as 2021. Another measure is also to update the anti-doping program, plan and coordinate effective action against negative phenomena in sport. So I think our government really supports the sport to the max.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u33	Thank you and now Mr Martin Kupka will interpel in the matter of the Ball Lightning event in the Czech woods. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u34	Dear Prime Minister, this interpelation may have a poetic name Ball Lightning in the woods, but it's actually a very serious transaction that maybe rather than anything else resembles the lithium case four years ago. So I would like to ask the key questions that are relevant to this. Eight days ago, a unique amount of forest land was moved outside the public's eyes - a total of 73,500 hectares of forest. It is clear that forests in the Czech Republic belong to national wealth, one of the natural wealth that gives the Czech Republic a unique character, people like to go there and see it as national wealth. I would like to ask what reasons have led to this unique transaction, which is unprecedented for the last 20 years. To see what territory it is, 73,500 hectares is the size of, for example, the districts of Prague - the east or approximately the size of the district Kladno, the district Kolín or the district of Prostějov. This creates enormous uncertainty, puts hundreds of jobs at risk, people who have enormous uncertainty about what their work will be, what their work will be with them. I would also like to ask not only the reasons for the transaction, but I would also like to ask what role UNILES of the Agrofert family plays in this, for example, with the Czech Forests. The transaction takes place between the Forests of the Czech Republic and the Military Forests and raises many serious questions. Let me just mention one more important number. The book value of the transfer is CZK 3 billion and the market value of the transfer is CZK 15 billion. I beg you to answer the two questions. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u35	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u36	Thank you for the floor. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you could've forgiven that UNILES, you know it doesn't matter at all. I became Minister of Finance on January 29, 2014. For the first time in my life, I entered the Ministry of Finance building. I didn't go forward as Mr. Ferjenčík looking at my next office. [[Smile for some Members.]] And since I became a member of the government, unlike your party, we have never sold anything, we haven't privatized anything. We knew about the thermals and all the stuff you guys were dealing with. I don't understand why you're talking about Uniles. We've never privatized anything. This is also one of the signs of the YES membership of the government. We've never sold anything, and now no one's sold anything. And by the way, when I asked Minister Toman about it, he told me that it was in his jurisdiction that he didn't even have to put it on the government. Eventually, he put it there for information. So, for starters, for me. And now I'm going to give you what I have written here. So once again, I just stress that all property remains in the property of the Czech Republic, all of it. It is a system of consolidation of the land of both state-owned enterprises, which is based on long-term negotiations between the ministries of agriculture and defence, which took place for more than a year. So I don't understand why a process where a state can organise an internal organizational operation quickly and efficiently is a matter of criticism. So in no way can I agree that the transfer of the right of management is carried out not transparently, secretly, or even abruptly. Again, this is not really a property transaction. We don't change anything with anyone or sell anything or privatize anything. All the forests concerned remained the property of the Czech state and there is only reorganisation in their administration, optimization of this administration within two state enterprises. On the contrary, this exchange will contribute to ensuring that separate forest units are not sold to the State for private ownership. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence responds to the SAO's finding, when it was blamed on the Military Forests, that it operates completely outside the military interest areas, especially in the Mimoň area. Regarding the alleged purpose and non-transparency of the prepared transfer, I would like to say that this change in property relations has been discussed with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Defence for a long time and has consequently resulted in information submitted to the Government of the Czech Republic. The government didn't approve of the information. It's the Minister's responsibility. In the material in question it is mentioned that one of the main reasons for the change of property relations is the settlement with bark sludge - we are again at the barking ground - in the area of the Liberec and Ústecký Region, and I state that the situation with barking ground in this locality is generally known. The transfer of the division Mimoň is not intended to address, inter alia, only the question of the performance of forestry activities in the territory of the division concerned, but it is envisaged to extend the activities of this organizational unit, which should intervene in the territory managed by the Forests of the Czech Republic and which should reverse the negative development of the spread of barking in the locality, in particular to improve the operational possibilities of the Forests of the Czech Republic in the fight against barking in the area concerned, which will be based on the use of the state enterprise's own capacities. On the contrary, military forests will acquire rings around existing military retreats in which they will use their capacities at a time when training is taking place in the retreats. At the same time, the army will acquire a new facility for building a new crew training ground. I also categorically reject the idea of carrying out agricultural parcels. The largest part of the agricultural land in the Military Forests is located in the Mimoň division, where the agricultural land consists of a total area of only 86 hectares. In the vast majority it is the so-called permanent grassland, meadows, which is mainly used for hay production, which is further used for feeding in the branches of the Military Forests, which are part of the property exchange. The comprehensive exchange of fields and permanent grasslands is therefore an obvious and rational step. The vast part of the area of the division Mimoň are forest land, most are open to the public and serve also for tourist purposes. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u37	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u38	Now I should probably ask for your example: Prime Minister, tell me who wrote it, say your name, don't be polite - because a whole series of information is completely on the water. You're saying one of the reasons is to fight a crusty calamity. However, for example, 30,000 hectares of forest in the former military area of Ralsko are pine forests, pine forests, where of course there is some occurrence of barking ground, but to a minimum extent. You say it's been prepared for years. Well, the information directly from the territory is that the directors of those divisions learned it a month before it was supposed to happen. Really caused problems on the part of people who work for the Military Forests and the Forests of the Czech Republic, who make forest workers there, forest workers who work in those divisions. So please ask for information on, for example, the bark sludge in the pine forests in the former military area of Ralsko.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u39	Time. Thank you. And I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u40	Well, I'm gonna say the name, of course, and I'm glad that some of my expressions are that way, and the opposition is using them. I'll tell you the name. His name is Mgr Lukáš Klučka, Deputy Minister of Defence, can write down his cell phone - 721 171 542. And if that's not enough for you, I'll call Minister Toman. Of course I didn't write it, I read it here. I told you in the introduction that nothing was ever privatized for me. We're not gonna talk about what the ODS has privatized since the revolution. No, that's for sure. So if you're questioning this, please come, I'll organize it for you, I'll invite you, Minister Toman can come, let all the directors come and talk about it. I'm really not an expert in the woods. And I can continue with the text, I still have a minute ten. Testimonials. Following the question of the absence of valuation of the transferred assets, I would like to say that the transfer is carried out as free of charge, so no one has sold anything to anyone, and there is no obligation by law to ensure that, in the event of the transfer of the right to manage, it is necessary to ensure the processing of an expert opinion. In the present case, at the same time, the processing of an expert opinion in the context of the fact that the transfer carried out remains the maintenance of the State's ownership seems completely inefficient and inefficient. The costs of an expert valuation of such large-scale land would burden the company's management unnecessarily and would be an unwarranted public finances. [[15.20 hours]] Transfer of movable property and posts. With regard to the preservation of jobs, it must be said that in the present case it is from the point of view of the labour-legal transfer of assets, which is also related to the transfer of rights and obligations of employees. This property will be transferred to the successor organization, this is to the Forests of the Czech Republic, Military Forests, employees who have been active here so far. [[Time.]] So nothing changes for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u41	Thank you. I would like to point out that neither the interpelling nor the interpelling has an obligation to use all the time. And now Mrs Karla Maříková will intersect in the matter of manipulation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I'm sure you'll give me credit for the best control of a frightened nation. On Prima television, I watched an interview with Dr. Šmucler, who was a member of the crisis staff and stated that at the meeting of the crisis staff it was repeatedly said that we had to tell people that it was worse, and we had to scare them. So I have a very simple question for you: Why are you intimidating the nation? Do you think the Čech are undisciplined and need to be terrified?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u43	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u44	Thank you for asking. I don't know if it's a misunderstanding. So I've never been to the Central Crisis Staff, not even through the video, and Dr. Šmucler is the TOP 09 nominee, so you should interpel Mrs. Pekarová Adamová. What he says, I don't know. He's one of those who underestimated pandemics. I'm sure we don't want to scare anybody, no way. The vaccination is voluntary, and of course we're inoculating. I think we're getting closer to convincing people. It's voluntary, but it would be nice if, of course, everyone inoculated. Yesterday the epidemic jumped by 100 percent, mainly in Prague and especially in the age category 17 to 21. delta here, luckily people don't end up in hospitals yet, but let's hope it stays that way. And, of course, we're preparing for that moment, and we have various projects to approach people with vaccinations. On Monday, July 12, with Minister Vojtěch - here he is - we will attend the opening of two vaccination sites, one will be at Chodov and the other will be at the Main Station, and we want to promote it. I hope that the media will help us and not just criticize us, but they will be together, and I think that we should all together convince everyone who is not vaccinated to protect their health. It would be nice - and, of course, we want to address important personalities to help us out, because the vaccination, I understand that some of them are vaccinated for vacation, but it's for health. I'm sure we don't want to scare anybody, and I don't think our people are gonna be intimidated. And there's no reason to scare them. So I don't know what was said in the C.E.U., but I definitely reject some theory that we should scare someone, on the contrary, convince them, we have to convince them, we have to show the examples, because of course, there are x different feces and disinformation on the networks. It's just clear that we've inoculated millions of people, that they're okay, and it's the only way to beat the virus. And it's the only way to get our kids back to school from September 1st, under the least complicated conditions possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u45	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, I don't think this is a misunderstanding. I've watched the interview several times. It doesn't matter who Dr. Šmucler was delegated to the crisis staff, and there's no reason for me to interpel Mrs. Pekarová. Mrs Pekarová is not a member of the government or a prime minister. By the way, we currently have 27 people covid positive in hospitals. So why do we still have restrictions, like we're at the top of a pandemic? Otherwise, if you read the comparison of the UK delta, where they compared the alfa mutation - the British mutation - and the delta mutation - the mortality rate is 20 times lower, and 2.5 times lower is the number of hospitalized ones. So I ask you repeatedly, why do we have restrictions like this? And otherwise, you don't have to advertise vaccinations here. This should be done by the Ministry of Health, and I think in a slightly different way than he's leading it, because the current advertising would discourage even the supporters of vaccination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u47	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u48	I'm sorry, I didn't do the commercial. But maybe you could give us some advice on how we should do it when the ad isn't good. I think it helped and there are some analyses. When I got my first shot at 27. At 12 a.m., there were 39 percent of our citizens who wanted to get vaccinated, and now I don't know what it is. Mr. Secretary, how much is that? Sixty-something. So it's just a lot more than that. I understand you don't like the commercial, okay. So we're gonna try to think about how we're gonna make it better. I think it's everyone's interest. I don't actually know where you're going with your contribution, whether you don't like it, whether we're inoculating or not. But, yes, we had originally British mutation, the so-called alpha, which was less infectious than delta, but significantly lethal. Delta is eight times more infectious, and luckily there are no people in hospitals yet. So, of course, we need to prepare a strategy. We need to set up a re-inoculation strategy, who we're gonna re-inoculate, if we're even gonna be. And of course, we need to protect the elderly. We still have a large number of older people with practices who are not vaccinated. The integrated central control team - Colonel Šnajdárek - is analyzing this. And we just have to convince these older people to get inoculated, because again, the assumption is that there's going to be a wave in the fall. And for the young, we simply need to convince them and find the right motivation to get vaccinated. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u49	Thank you. Let's move on. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová will interpel in the matter of hundreds of millions on IT - JŘBU on OK applications. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u50	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, it's hundreds of millions of IT without an open tender. I'll show you right now. The great long-term pain of our state is dysfunctional and overpriced IT orders. IT systems are crucial for the functioning of the modern state. I would like to ask a few specific examples of hundreds of millions of crowns, where hundreds of thousands of millions of citizens will touch any problems. I will therefore state that the Working Party of the Information Society Council has dealt with President Dzurilla and approved the JŘB's so-called negotiated procedure without publication, and now I quote, "the provision of support services, operation, necessary development and termination of OK applications." Let me just explain: So this is about support for OKsyste, which anyone who needs to solve a parental contribution at the office of work, the operation of this system also provides care contributions. And how many crowns are we talking about? About 373 million. Hundreds of millions. [[15.30 hours]] On the contrary, the second JŘBU with a similar name, but twice as much as 770 million, was rejected, not approved. And the question is simple: how is it that you still assign such huge orders directly, without a tender? How is it possible after so many years of being Prime Minister? And how do these two JRBs differ? What is the reason for the division and the different decision at all? But whatever it is, it's crucial. These are hundreds of millions of crowns that go without a tender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u51	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u52	Thank you for asking. I agree with you that IT contracts are a permanent problem for our state. But somebody chose the companies, and each company worked at some ministry that they occupied, somebody signed the contracts, they didn't even take the rights, and it's a big problem, because unfortunately, the state isn't a company. If it was a company, it's in one place, it's run by one team, even though I think we've moved on considerably. And you as shadow secretary of labor and social affairs - why are you laughing? [[To Mr. Brazil.]] Then I can assure you, I'm worried about it, too. I wrote to Mrs Maláčová - now I don't know how many, maybe twelve letters from this title, because yes, oksystem is there, it's been there a long time, there have been some experiments in the past, allegedly it cost billions and it didn't work out again, I don't know how they do it. But, of course, this is strictly a matter for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I asked Mrs. Maláčová for a background, but it would be good if you could interpel her directly, because, of course, I can only read her answer here: "On 22 February 2021, an agreement was concluded between MPSV and OKsystem to provide temporary support for the operation of information systems for the payment of social benefits and support for the area of employment for the necessary period of time, primarily until the MPSV is authorised to conclude a contract in the ongoing procurement procedure for the provision of service support for operation, necessary development and termination of the OCP. The procurement procedures for the contract, the provision of service support for the operation, the necessary development and termination of the OCappications carried out due to extremely urgent circumstances and technical reasons in the form of a non-public procedure should have resulted in the conclusion of a time-limited contract to ensure the support of the operation of OCapacities until the time the system was taken over by the supplier selected in the ongoing open competition, or at the time when the compensation was applied by OCapacities. However, in the course of this procurement procedure, the MPSV received objections against the award of this contract and is not entitled to conclude a contract in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Deficiencies of qualified operating support The application would jeopardise their proper functioning, which could undermine the proper and timely payment of social benefits and support for employment and cause damage to a large extent. The conclusion of a temporary contract with the current provider of support services with clearly given objective conditions for their termination was the only real and legal option for the MPSV in a given situation to ensure the operation of the OApplication, the payment of social benefits and employment aid, including, for example, aid paid through the Antivirus programme after the expiry of the existing contract. At the same time, the MPSV has continuously made appropriate efforts to avoid the necessary procedure in the negotiated procedure without publication. At present, two open procurement procedures continue to take place, both for the reimbursement of existing OApplications and for the provision of support for the operation of existing OApplications. Open procurement procedures The Single Information System of Labour and Social Affairs, IS social benefits 2, the subject of which is the main replacement of existing Ocaplikace, was launched already in 2017, with the decision of the Regional Court in Brno of 29 October 2017 pending the acquisition of legal power. 6. 2021, which also gave the MPSV the right, was not authorised by the MPSV due to ongoing administrative proceedings with the UOHS to conclude a contract. This situation continued despite the fact that, already on 23 November 2020, the President of the ÚOHS did not find in his second step decision any legal deficiency in the MPSV procedure and the complainant's contested MPSV procedure, as well as subsequently the Regional Court in Brno fully acquiesced." [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u53	Thank you. The Member will be interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u54	I can imagine that in another universe this answer would be satisfactory, but in the universe in which you live, where you are Prime Minister and where you had your Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs. Němcová, you simply have to say what you have done to make your ministry work as one team, if you have helped in the twelve letters you are talking about, the MPSV has managed to cope with the complex situation with the OKsystem, as you have offered a helping hand, and in short, why, even after four years of your government, are hundreds of millions still being allocated directly? I stress that the Council of the Government for Information Society is also below you. The results of the twelve letters are that it is still being allocated in such a transparent way, that is the matter of your government, the matter of yours and the role of your Minister, the Němcová, should also be clarified in how it has contributed or, on the contrary, has not contributed to the development of the IT systems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u55	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u56	Okay, I'll communicate with Secretary Maláčová that she lives in another universe. Of course, we have done historically the most important thing in terms of digitization of this state, and that is that I have appointed the best I.T. in the state administration, Mr. Dzurilla, as a government agent. Before we digitalize, no one has done anything, and I can talk here for an hour about what Dzurilla and other people have done with him in the digitalization process, and there's not enough, just in the covidum and other things. And of course all IT contracts have their own procedure, their own process, there are structures, RVIS, NAKIT, etc. It's in cooperation with the Home Office, and yes, so I can say yes for myself, we've done the most for digitalization since the creation of a separate state. We even organized a seminar, there was a friend of mine, former Prime Minister of Estonia, there we were visiting, so the digitalisation results are so much, and I think everyone appreciated it, too, your colleagues. So, yes, you can criticize me, of course, we're the coalition government. I've learned to write mostly, I think it's practical. If I write, I have the contents, I have a date, I can appeal to it, and from my point of view, it's my system of work. So I think, from my point of view, I have done my utmost, and I repeat, that the role of Mrs Němcová, I do not understand at all, the question, Mrs Maláčová I think has been there since June 2018 and I am sure she will be happy to answer your questions. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u57	Thank you. And now Mr Martínek will intersect on the matter Will the Czech Republic join the call against censorship discriminated against minorities by the Orbán government in Hungary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u58	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the new Hungarian legislation prohibits awareness of sexual minorities and prohibits the spread among young people under the age of 18 of any material depicting homosexuality and other information for minorities. According to EU representatives and Member States, with regard to discrimination against minorities, the law contradicts the values of the European Union. As a result of the Hungarian homophobic law introducing censorship in Hungary, 18 EU leaders have already signed a call to defend the fundamental rights of citizens. Respect and tolerance are at the heart of the European project. For example, Austrian Prime Minister Sebastian Kurz or Greece joined. The Czech Republic has not yet joined you with the reason that you want to be explained by Viktor Orbán and that you want to analyse the legislation and consult with a team of collaborators. You said you consulted with the Foreign Minister Jakub Kulhánek and agreed to return to it. In particular, you said - we will also discuss this in the government, we strongly support minorities in the Czech Republic, we are a very liberal society. Personally, as a supporter of the EU's call and values, which are incompatible with Hungarian efforts to censor through homophobic law, I want to ask you why you did not join the challenge of other EU leaders if you clearly support these minorities? What are the results of the analysis you had entered? When are you going to meet the public? What are the outcomes of the government's negotiations where you discussed the issue? Will you at least support this challenge additionally? When will you return to the subject in your own words? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u59	Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister for an answer, and before he gets to the microphone, I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mrs Malá apologizes between 14.30 and 19.00 for a visit to the doctor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u60	Thank you for asking. Yes, I also took part in the European Council. And Viktor Orbán performed there repeatedly. And I understand that you have the notes of the European Parliament, but we are a sovereign country. And this, what your chairman has done, is the fifth column. You want to tear this country apart? You want them to vote on us? You want a majority vote on councils. That means we're all outvoted. Migration. I would never bring 42 million...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u61	I'd like us to stick to the question. It's been like that all along.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u62	I'm talking about European structures. You want to support the majority system in the Council. You don't know what you're talking about. You are going to the European Parliament to get notes to break up the Czech Republic. It's not true what you're saying. It's not true. The law, the law, doesn't concern people's sexual practices for 18 years. And Viktor Orbán got up there. And he says - freedom for Hungarians is not only the freedom of political and freedom of personal choice, freedom of assembly and association, but also the freedom to protect family and raise children according to their beliefs. And Viktor Orbán says he wants to protect the children. And parents. Parents have the right to raise children! [[raised voice]] Not some nonprofit who comes to middle school and kindergarten and tells the kids if they're a girl or a boy. No nonprofit! I guess you're the one with the job description. So, please, I don't know what you're talking about. I did not join because we talked about this at the European Council. And Xavier Bettel is my friend! [[raised voice]] He was here. With my boyfriend. I don't have a homosexual problem. I don't. If you had something - or we all wanted to do for them - you should have finished the law here. Do you think they're going to demonstrate? No. They want to have rights. That's important to them, not that I'm signing some kind of canc you've been dictated to in Europe. Nobody dictates to me. So it is not true and it is simply a matter between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission. And I don't know why we're supposed to talk Maďar into their laws. They are a sovereign country. Yes? So it's not true that it's against homosexuals. It's not true. It is the protection of children and the protection of the right of parents to raise them. They're not gonna be raised by a nonprofit -- like I just read those cases in Canada that my father couldn't call his daughter by his own name after all, because there was someone there who convinced that she wasn't really a girl, but she's a boy. [[th au]] Well, I certainly don't want that. And ten states didn't join it. Ten states did not join this because they were simply at the European Council and we heard the arguments. We heard. So it is a dispute about the interpretation of the Hungarian law, which, of course, if the European Commission makes use of its right to sue them, it will end up in court, in the European Court. And it'll be the same as the rule of law. So it's not like that. It's not what you say. And the fact that I would sign something that the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Parliament's opinion is completely different from that of other people, I simply don't know why I would do that. So I'm just saying again, the law doesn't concern people over the age of 18 sexual practices, okay? So it's completely pointless here when you say a lie... it repeats it a hundred times. [[Attention on time.]] And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u63	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u64	Thank you. I don't want to respond to the demagogy about a qualified majority, but I don't know where you get the fact that for them, for the minorities in our country, there is an important clear statement, a clear defense. As I am speaking to everyone, this is important and, of course, the actions you are talking about are also important, but also part of the members of the ANO movement block marriage for everyone. Unfortunately, it is not that we have the majority here to push for it, because there are no YES votes. The pirates are ready to support it 100%. I also do not know why we are not able to support a statement where there is no word about Hungary. I have read this statement, and there is really no word about Hungary, there is only to defend those minorities, when it is said that it will be a day that we will remember that we are a diverse tolerant society that has committed itself to the unlimited development of the personality of each of our citizens, including their sexual orientation and gender identity, it will also be a moment to celebrate the fact that we have come a long way in the last few years in favour of these principles, which we consider to be the foundations of the European Union, etc. It doesn't really say about Hungary, and we could stand up for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u65	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he's interested in responding to an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u66	What demagogy? I don't know, is he your chairman here? [[He's showing the material.]] Here, Marcel Kolaja - this is your Member - and President Bartoš has agreed that the role of the European Parliament needs to be strengthened. The Pirate Party also supports the majority voting system in the Council of unanimity. So what do you really want? That they'll dictate everything to us - migration, taxes? I wouldn't fight no 42 billion, four nights. It is in that unanimity that our sovereignty is! [[raised voice]] This is the breakup of the Czech Republic. [[15.50 hours]] It is in that unanimity that our sovereignty is! [[raised voice]] This is the breakup of the Czech Republic. You're normally the fifth column. You go to Brussels and you get notes! Unbelievable. [[President: I would like to call again on us to try to stick to the subject.]] I'm sticking to the subject. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] This is normally a betrayal. And please, I have a lot of gay friends, even my mistress, and they want those rights. Okay, that's important, not if I sign some paper on some instructions I don't know where from. So it's completely different, and I've just always preferred actions rather than declarations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u67	Thank you and now Mrs Kovářová will interpel on the issue of an ungrateful Republic - the fight for rewards in the front line. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u68	Dear Prime Minister, in recent days the number of Coronavirus infected has been growing, and some wonder what surprises the autumn months are preparing for us. In the event of a lot of adverse developments which I hope will not happen, it will be necessary to call again to the aid of the integrated rescue system component and students. All of them have proven themselves in the case of previous waves, and I want to say from this place that we are very grateful to them for this. Unfortunately, according to the available information, not all extraordinary service fees and assistance from the previous wave of pandemics were paid, which was not only very demanding for health professionals. We all have a vivid memory of how the government dealt - or rather talked about the solution - payouts for medical professionals and assisting students. The look was sad sometimes. The rewards lasted a long time, it was difficult, but in the end the rewards were paid. Well, it seems that you haven't learned much, and this rather sad scenario is repeated today in the case of the remuneration of policemen and firefighters. Dear Prime Minister, I am very sorry about this government approach, which you are chairman of. None of those who helped in the front line really deserve this. So I'd like to ask you how the promised rewards for firefighters and police officers are going to be during the pandemic, and what they're going to be like. When will they be paid, and will they be paid? Or doesn't it count anymore and it's just one of the government's unfulfilled promises? I must ask, what message do you send to all police officers, firefighters, soldiers and others in this misguided procedure? I don't want it to be a message saying that we live in an ungrateful republic. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u69	Thank you for your time, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u70	Thank you for asking. I agree with you, of course. You forgot about the soldiers and the prison service. We had it in the government, we agreed on it, and now Secretary Schillerová and the relevant ministers simply have to find the reward money. We talked about the reward of CZK 20,000 for extraordinary activity in connection with the pandemic COVID-19, so I don't question it. Now, of course, there is a debate on the financial possibilities of individual chapters, and, of course, Minister Schillerová must find the money by working with ministers. I'm sure we're grateful to everyone. I think you just have to look at the average salaries of soldiers, firefighters, policemen and others and, of course, paramedics. We have once again approved extraordinary medical fees of 12.1 billion, so of course we are grateful to everyone, surely they deserve the rewards and ministers have the task of solving it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u71	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u72	Thank you, Prime Minister, for a partial answer. So the government approved it, and now it's time for Secretary Schillerová to find money in cooperation with the various ministers. So I would like to ask you if you can see to what time frame, and I expect your answer there too, these rewards will be paid out, how long it will take to find funds and whether you are willing to give funds from the state budget as was the case with health professionals. I wish that what you said earlier to Mr Martínek really was true, that you prefer action, not declarations. So please answer when the rewards will be paid, and please see to it that they do so in the foreseeable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u73	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u74	It looks like we're not trying. I would just like to remind you that we were here last year, and it was in September when Mrs Schillerová agreed with the Home Secretary, they increased the amount of money to pay the police and fire department $700 million. That was translated into the state budget. So it was for their deployment and their involvement in extraordinary measures. Another 100 million were included in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior for remuneration, as a result of an amendment by one Member. So at the beginning of this year, additional 162 million crowns were available in the demands of unused expenses of the Police of the Czech Republic, which can also be used for rewards. I think there are specific sums that have been paid in the past. And of course, what we talked about, I'm not able to say a specific term right now, but I'm sure we'll do everything we can to make it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u75	Thank you. Now, Mrs Monika Jarošová will interpel on what the government is preparing for citizens who will refuse to take vaccinations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u76	Dear Minister, I have not been allowed to attend a meeting of the members of the members' communities by a senseless government regulation and thus decide on my apartment. Even at the last meeting a few months ago, when the situation was much worse, the drape was enough, and now that it's loosening up, the drape is no longer enough. Personally, I refuse to vaccinate, I refuse to test myself pointlessly forever. I refuse to inform anyone on my health, which means whether or not I've had a covid, like in restaurants. That's not the point. It's not about the SVJ meeting, it's not about me. That's just an example, Prime Minister. But what's going on is discrimination against untrained persons. What's happening today is a little over the line. I wonder when it's gonna end, where do you want it to go with your decisions? Why do you want to force healthy citizens with good immunity to vaccination with gradual restrictions on entry into the shops and services? Do you need to take advantage of purchased vaccines, or is there any other reason, some kind of pressure? Why do you force healthy, resilient citizens to vaccinate at all costs, now children too, and you don't care about endangered groups? I ask, then, what will be the last and most effective pressure for voluntary vaccination when advertising is not helping and more and more people are rejecting it? I wonder what you're going to do with them, how you're going to force them into vaccination, those who are determined never to get vaccinated?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u77	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer in the remaining time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u78	We're not forcing anyone. We're trying to convince them that it's in their health to protect themselves with vaccination. So, of course, we're not going to force anyone, and we're going to convince them to get inoculated, because that's the only solution in case they get a covid and there's some mutation, so that the course of the disease isn't dangerous to them. [[16.00 hours]] So we're still short on vaccines. Of course, we have a plan, we have to inoculate the second dose, and we're going to, yes, convince everyone that it's important that it's an advantage - it's an advantage for... But it's not about that. People should be vaccinated for health, not for... And if they have doubts, of course their medical condition doesn't allow it, there's a doctor who decides and recommends or doesn't recommend it. So we're really just on the level of some kind of recommendation, but we're not going to rape anyone. [[Prime Minister, time.]] But it would be nice if everyone understood that returning to normal life is the maximum vaccination of our entire population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u79	Thank you. The time has passed for interpelation to the Prime Minister, and I will therefore hand over the chair and follow the interpelation to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u80	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with our interpelations on the members of the government. I call on Mr Libor Hopp to give an oral interview to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Jaroslav Holík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u81	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Havlíček, I would like to begin by saying that I admire you when you are able to perform the role of a two-minister and during the pandemic you have been filling in for the Minister of Health, when you have been able to tell us in the media and at press conferences what will be closed, what will be open, how many masks, how many respirators we have brought. However, my question is to the Department of Transport. Can you say in what state is the preparation of the completion of the D52 to the border with Austria? And the second and the main: how is the preparation of the construction of the R43? When does it start to build? 'Cause there's no talk of her in your ministry's super-strategies, like she's been thrown under the table. The situation on I/43 is no longer unbearable. Thousands of cars, accidents and roadblocks. It is a part that is from the north of Brno towards the north. So I just want this answer, but I want a clear and current situation, not things that were a year or six months ago. And it certainly doesn't solve the roundabout thing at Sebranice, which is now planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u82	Thank you, too. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jaroslav Holík, Mr. Milan Pour, will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u83	Dear absent minister, bullying is a phenomenon that has plagued human society since its inception. There have always been individuals who were satisfied when they humiliated or harmed someone weaker. Years ago, bullies bloomed in the military or boarding schools. There is currently a reduction in the age of the aggressors, and this negative phenomenon is moving not only to primary schools but also to kindergarten schools. It happens that one or more pupils usually deliberately abuse and enslave classmates. If this nesvar is not weakened in time and bullying is tolerated, the whole school can be destroyed. The primary task of the school is to create a good social climate and pupils need the help of an educator who can work with the group and deal with crisis situations. Dear Minister, do we have enough of such educators? The practice of bullying is not indicative of that. Dear Minister, I am sure you will agree with me that there is a need to create a program where teachers will be constantly raised, trained to remove such a disorder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u84	Thank you. The interview will also be answered in writing. Mr Milan Pour will be next in line, Mrs Monika Jarošová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u85	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in a matter that is of interest to a number of citizens who have recently lost COVID-19, whether consciously or unconsciously. These citizens had their antibodies detected by a blood test on COVID-19 and had a high value of these antibodies in their blood, even in some cases above 300 MgG. To these people, their doctor, usually an immunologist, did not recommend being vaccinated. However, the Ministry of Health did not include confirmation of the high value of antibodies between the conditions for entry into certain internal premises or mass cultural and sporting events. However, these conditions include vaccination, disease loss over the past 180 days, PCR or antigen test, and in some cases a self-test is sufficient. However, there are a number of cases where people have had COVID-19 without symptoms or almost without symptoms, they have had an antigen test or PCR taken at that time, but it was negative, and now they have detected antibodies that show a high value of MgG, suggesting that the disease has been lost. These people, if they want to go to a restaurant or visit a cultural or sporting event, have a PCR or antigen test taken or pass these activities. It is discriminatory for these people, as the Supreme Administrative Court recently ruled on this matter, which pointed out the illogicality of this measure. However, the court did not want to speculate what a safe antibody level should be. The court therefore merely stated that it is within the competence of the Ministry of Health to establish a safe level of antibodies. In the context of this, I have two questions for you, Minister. [[Time!]] Firstly, for what reason does the Ministry of Health not recognise high levels of antibodies as the fourth option for entering a restaurant and for cultural and sporting events? And second, is the Ministry of Health preparing an adjustment to the conditions that would respond to the Supreme Administrative Court's decision to discriminate against people with confirmation of the high value of antibodies on COVID-19? [[Time!]] Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u86	I'm sorry, but we really need to keep up the time to ask questions and interpelations. At this point, I was being generous myself. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. As far as the question is concerned, I'll try to answer. It's not quite as easy as the court says. It is very easy to say from the table, let the Ministry of Health determine some levels of antibodies, but it is also necessary to base some expert opinions on this. And if we look at specific antibodies that are of the MgG class, which means they are a sign of COVID-19 disease in people who have not been vaccinated against covid, the detection of positive antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 does not automatically mean that their level has sufficient protective effect against any other disease. Currently, the so-called protective antibody level is not defined worldwide. No one has said internationally what the level is, which is actually sufficient, that is, the level of antibodies that will reliably protect the person from the disease. Unfortunately, the findings of antibody testing in the spirit of this requirement cannot be interpreted in this respect. The issue at the moment is intensively discussed worldwide, but so far, unfortunately, the finding of the IgG antibodies only means that the person is very likely to have had the disease, but it cannot be defined whether it is sufficiently protected. Antibody testing cannot determine the period during which a person has experienced the disease, meaning in other words, that person may have the antibodies tested at that time, that he actually has some antibody level, but the question is how it will be in 14 days, how it will be in a month. [[16.10 hours]] Today, we have a general expert opinion that if a person loses the disease, 180 days after the disease has passed is considered to be infected. That's true, and that's how the system's set up. This is a very individual process for antibody decline dynamics and cannot be established in advance, that is, it would really have to be repeated at regular intervals at least once a month in order to make sure that the person is still sufficiently protected. Individual antibodies are affected by a number of factors, including the size of the infectious dose, whether the viral load was actually higher or lower than the one infected, as well as the individual response of the immune system to the infection. Each body in this direction is individual. On the other hand, a high level of antibodies after vaccination is guaranteed with a stable dose of vaccine with a well-known antigen content, which means that all of this is really based on clear clinical trials as opposed to the issue of antibodies to disease. Unfortunately, pending consensus on protective antibody levels, these cannot be taken into account in the measures. Consenzus is not an international expert yet, although of course we are very closely monitoring the situation. As far as the antibody test is concerned, health insurance companies aren't paying him off. It is not a standard for other infectious diseases, that one may be looking for influenza antibodies or something like that. If the test had the same weight as the positive PCR test, we would of course be forced to pay these tests for health insurance, which would certainly be a burden on the system, and it is indeed a question of the explanatory value of such a result and how long could it really be valid. The indication for antibody testing is only the donation of recovery plasma - if someone has experienced a disease, they can donate regenerative plasma to the treatment of patients with COVID-19, or in differential diagnostic examination due to suspected covid, pneumonia or post-covide syndrome in a person who has not yet been tested positive under the disease. From a technical point of view, it cannot be agreed to investigate the level of antibodies for preventive or epidemiological reasons, and therefore they cannot be included at the moment in the European covid passport and I think it is not even something that would be a privilege of the Czech Republic that it is not really a standard for other states to issue a certificate or a European covid passport based on the fact that one has antibodies. So much for that. We are monitoring the situation, and if there is an expert opinion at international level, we will apply it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u88	The Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u89	Thank you so much for your reply. Of course, it is known or expected that covid will still be here with us for some time, unfortunately, so I only have a question about whether the Ministry of Health or other institutions carry out some clinical studies in relation to the level of antibodies and even comparison, or whether we are waiting for some clinical studies and some other analyses from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u90	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u91	There is no doubt that clinical studies are underway, and I think that we really need to rely on some international opinions, such as the ECDC, which is the European Center for Disease Control and Prevention, from which we are based in general, on its opinions, possibly the US CDC or WHO, these are the professional institutions that should have a clear position in this regard, from which we can then base, which will actually be supported by some massive data and studies in a number of countries, not only in the Czech Republic. Again, it is not a thing that is definitely closed at the moment, but we do not have enough valid data and studies to come out of them, and we actually said that a certain level of antibodies for a certain period of time protects a person, besides - I repeat again - if a person after the disease he experienced 180 days after losing the disease is considered to be infected. This is the consensus that exists at the moment, not for a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u92	Thank you. Mrs Monika Jarošová, who will interpel the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, will speak with the next interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u93	Dear Minister, I have not been allowed to attend a meeting of the members of the members' communities by a senseless government regulation and thus decide on my apartment. Even at the last meeting a few months ago, when the situation was much worse, the drape was enough, and today, when it's relaxing, it's not enough. I refuse to inoculate myself, I refuse to test myself pointlessly indefinitely, I refuse to inform anyone on my health, which means whether I have lost or not have had a covid. But that's not the point. It's not about the meeting, it's not about me. I set that as an example. What's going on is discrimination against non-vaccuated people, because what's going on today is a little bit over the line. I wonder when it's gonna end, where you're gonna let your decisions go. Why do you want to force healthy citizens with good immunity to vaccination at all costs by gradually restricting access to shops and services? Or do you need to take advantage of purchased vaccines, or is there any other reason, some kind of pressure? In that case, I wonder where it came from. Why are you forcing healthy, resilient citizens to vaccinate at all costs, now children too? And you don't primarily care about endangered groups. It's holidays, vacations. Let these people finally breathe and live, leave our children alone to enjoy their holidays, and after them let them go to schools without vaccinations and testing. I feel so bad for all these people when I see those shoppers having respirators on their faces in those heats, I feel sorry for the shopkeepers, the factory people, the bakeries. You can't breathe in that. I therefore ask, Minister, what will be the last and most effective pressure for voluntary vaccination when advertising is not helping and more and more people are rejecting. So what's going to happen to them? What restrictions, how are you going to force them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u94	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, actually, she's already spoken to the Prime Minister, so maybe I'll repeat in part what he's already said. First, the premise: it is true that vaccination is and will remain voluntary, we do not have any motivation or plan to introduce compulsory vaccination against COVID-19 disease. Often many in disinformation servers and some fellow Members present it here somewhere. It's complete nonsense, so this really needs to be clearly rejected. The vaccination is voluntary. On the other hand, it is up to each of us to stand up to protect our loved ones' health and health. As Minister of Health, I also need to see public health protection as a fundamental priority in the context of what we have experienced here. I think we've had a really complicated phase of the pandemic, that perhaps even the biggest deniers, when they saw what was going on here especially during the winter season, saw what the disease would cause, how it would be very quickly practically filled and overcrowded by hospitals, which are often unable to care for normal patients and must logically only care for these covide patients in intensive care units and so on. It's not some haunting, no fake news, it's just a proven fact that we've been through here really. In this regard, I think we must strive, as a society, to prevent a similar scenario from happening here that we have already experienced. Population inoculation is simply a scientifically proven way of preventing this, whether we like it or not. [[16.20 hours]] Again, vaccination is voluntary, but the fact that the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health are trying to get the company inoculated, so I think that it is completely legitimate, and I would be a bad Minister of Health if I didn't seek this and urge people to just get vaccinated, just as they have been injected and vaccinated in recent decades against a number of other infectious diseases that have been eradicated. The fact that at this point we have set some conditions that we are actually putting into the shortcut of OTON, that is, vaccination, test or disease loss, is again a standard that we see in many other countries today. This means that one has to prove infectibility in order to prevent the spread of the disease in contact between people in larger groups and so on. That's just something that comes from this unprecedented time of year, and believe me, sometimes here I feel like I'm doing it in the media area or on different social networks, that I or my colleagues do it with some kind of love, that we actually enjoy doing such measures. On the contrary, I would like to be able to withdraw all measures, we did not have to deal with the covid at all, but unfortunately we are not in that situation, and if I am to be the responsible Minister of Health, we simply need to set these basic measures and be maintained just until we achieve collective immunity, where the population's vaccination really reaches at least 70% of the level. I think it's real that we make it to September. If it turns out - I think that in September the so-called bread will break - if the situation has actually been better managed than last year or if the situation gets worse in some way, then we will proceed accordingly. But it is certainly not my concern to keep measures anti-epidemic here longer than is absolutely necessary, but given the context, even the international context of the proliferation of pandemics still in the surrounding countries, the basic measures are simply necessary. I think that we have loosened up many of these measures, today practically life is not limited, there are open restaurants, shops, people can sport, they can have fun, but we just want them to do it safely, to avoid spreading the disease and to be responsible in this regard, and therefore we require proof of infectivity. And that's it. So I think it's completely legitimate in the context of this situation, and I say again, I would be a bad Minister of Health if I didn't require this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u96	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u97	Well, voluntary vaccinations, I don't know, then those who don't get inoculated, they're gonna have to get tested, and if they don't even get tested, they're gonna have all kinds of bans on the swimming pool, anywhere. You haven't answered my question about pressure on citizens, but I don't think I could have expected that, I think this will show the future, I think it's pretty early. Let me just remind you that the SPD is enforcing the definition of voluntary vaccination to the law, because we are concerned about how it will be handled against people who do not want to inoculate themselves with the vaccine, especially given the lack of vaccine testing, their side effects, sometimes we hear about sudden deaths, and it also worries us that some vaccine manufacturers refuse to take responsibility for any damage to their health. So we will be happy, Minister, when this law is discussed, if you support our amendment and show with that gesture that you are really interested in volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u98	Thank you. The Minister is interested in answering. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u99	Thank you for the floor. We've been having this debate repeatedly, but really, if vaccination should be mandatory, the obligation must be given in the law. It is not possible for vaccination to be required unless it is explicitly provided for in the Public Health Act, and this, of course, would have to be approved by the legislature, Parliament, and this will certainly not happen and we are not going to propose such a thing. So once again, the debate that vaccination should be mandatory is pointless from the point of view that the obligation would have to be laid down by law, only and only by the Public Health Act, just as compulsory vaccination is needed against tetanus or some other diseases. So much for the responsibilities that still appear here, and it's not true that we want the vaccination to be mandatory. Yes, we want people to inoculate, yes, we strive to get as many people inoculated, that's right, we appeal to it, it's the priority of the Ministry of Health, here I do not deny it, that our goal really is to achieve the desired inoculation, but it is clear that there will be people who choose not to be vaccinated voluntarily and no one can force them to do so. On the other hand, if these people voluntarily decide that they do not want to be vaccinated, then it is necessary to prove that they are infected and cannot spread the disease, just by getting tested. I think the state is now very generously paying for the tests against the covid, or the detection of the covid, whether they are antigenic or PCR tests, so they can use this. But I'm saying again, it's clear, I'm not denying that we want as many people inoculated as possible because I believe that this is the only way to a normal life. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u100	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Next, Mrs Dana Balcarová will speak to Minister Richard Brabec. Mrs Dana Balcarová is not present, so we will proceed to another interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mr Vít Kaňkovský to Mr Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u101	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, Minister, as more and more contagious mutations of COVID-19 are occurring and studies are being conducted on the effectiveness of individual vaccines against COVID-19, it is clear that it will be necessary to re-inoculate the population vaccinated in the spring soon, especially if they have been vaccinated with vector vaccines, which is the AstraZeneca vaccine in our conditions. So I want to ask you, Minister, whether you're thinking or how the Department of Health is preparing for this surge of re-inoculation. I can say from my medical practice that I am being approached by elderly patients or relatives themselves, and it concerns those who were vaccinated in the first wave with AstraZeneca and would be interested in re-inoculating another type of vaccine at expertly recommended time. Of course, with the occurrence of mutations, it can be expected that there will be a need for re-inoculation of other population groups, which have also been vaccinated with so-called mRNA vaccines. So I want to ask you, Mr. Secretary, how are you? The Ministry of Health is preparing for a surge of re-inoculation, at which stage is negotiations on the delivery of vaccines in autumn and winter, and how you are going to do it staffily, because it is clear that in the vaccination centers at this time, health professionals are working mainly from hospitals, but they will have to catch up on the care in autumn, which has been postponed in almost 12 months. So, so many of my questions about how we're set up for a surge of over-inoculation against COVID-19.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u102	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member, thank you for the interpelation and the questions that are very right and, of course, quite legitimate, because it is something that we are very closely monitoring, and it is a topic that the Ministry of Health is dealing with. The problem is that, unfortunately, there are no studies so far to provide guaranteed information on when and who needs to be re-infected. It should be noted that it is still not even a year since the first people were vaccinated as part of the studies of all manufacturers, that is, the time is very short and as a doctor you know that these clinical studies take time, the data are still being collected and evaluated. Although there is some partial information here, the one from Israel, from elsewhere, I think that we really need to await an international valid position in this regard, especially from the European Medicines Agency, and it has not yet come. So at this point, we take it that vaccination is unlimited for a period of time. She was originally there... someone's got the Dot app, which she sees actually, she says she's been there nine months, that was the original arbitrary deadline, now we're gonna cancel it and there won't be a limited time. This vaccination or booster vaccination will, of course, also be determined by the deadline that has passed since primary vaccination, that is, it is clear that it will probably not occur at one time, but it will take place gradually, as people have gradually been vaccinated, even if it can be shown from those studies that some age groups, such as seniors or chronically ill patients, respond differently to this vaccination, have a shorter immune response, and they will need to be re-insected preferably. [[16.30 hours]] What is important to us is that we have enough ordered vaccines to be able to re-inoculate the entire population, because we assume that re-inoculation will take place with one dose, not with two doses as it has been. And in that direction today, as those orders are scheduled, there will be enough vaccines, so there shouldn't be a problem. What is more a question is some modification of vaccines for mutations, because the vaccines may already be ineffective for the new mutations. This is what we are discussing with manufacturers, and they themselves are preparing variants and variants of vaccines that would already be adapted to mutations. This is really in the solution. I don't think there's a vaccine shortage problem here. What will be more problematic or we will have to deal with is a question, as you say, personnel. But it's clear that we have a very strong primary care network here that we're going to rely on. It didn't turn out perfectly in the first phase, but I think we've learned our lesson now. We are also preparing and health insurance companies compete with distributors for all vaccines, including Pfizer, which will logically be the primarily used one, maybe if the European Medicines Agency also approves the possibility of a combination of vaccines, so it will actually be possible to re-inoculate even those who were first vaccinated with a vector vaccine, mRNA vaccine, but here we do not have an expert opinion, we are waiting for him. However, practical doctors, thanks to the competitive distribution, will also be able to use Pfizer vaccinations, as well as practical doctors for children and adolescents from 12 years of age. So here we assume that the problem should no longer be from the point of view of the distribution of vaccines and the availability of vaccines for general practitioners for primary care. Plus, it's clear that they're going to work - and we assume we have communication with the regions - and vaccination sites at the hospitals, at the medical facilities. It is clear that the large-capacity centres will gradually be dampened as planned by the end of summer and from September we would like to switch - to transform into a primary care model plus vaccination sites in hospitals. It should run there, on the one hand, into vaccination of those who are not yet vaccinated, and they will show interest in the autumn period. However, we do not know - and we do not yet have a clear position and data from the studies - when it should occur, whether it will occur in autumn or at the end of the year. But I'm sure that's what we're preparing for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u104	Thank you. The Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u105	Minister, thank you for your fair answer. Let me just get this straight. This means that at this point, the Ministry of Health is negotiating with all manufacturers registered within the EU for potential supplies, and we have pre-ordered or modified vaccines if they are already available in season 2021/2022? That's supplementary question number one. And as far as practical doctors are concerned: if we were to vaccine mRNAs first, we know that there were problems with distribution to practical doctors due to storage conditions. Does this mean that the logistics chain is also being prepared so that practical doctors, such as the Pfizer vaccine, can inoculate it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u106	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u107	Thank you for the follow-up questions. I'll start with the second question. Yes, the opinion has been gradually adjusted that it is actually possible to store the vaccine in a normal refrigerator for some time in the practice doctor's office. The problem now is with distribution that it is not a distributor of Pfizer vaccine, as with other vaccines, which could be introduced into each individual practice according to the orders of practical doctors. This will change, health insurance companies compete with distributors for all vaccines, including vaccine from Pfizer, so that the distributor is able to import this vaccine into each individual office, as the practitioners are used to using other vaccines, that they order from the distributor and he will deliver it to them. So here's the solution. I say again, it's covered by health insurance. And I don't think there should be a problem here. As for the orders, it's very dynamic. At this point, we have orders, I say again, vaccines that are capable of over-inoculating the entire population. On the other hand, you're right, and as I was talking about it in the first performance, there are mutations, companies are adapting to it, and negotiations are under way. We don't make it, the European Commission makes it, we're in the system, and that's how it stays with the central joint purchase. But it's true that these negotiations are really under way, and the companies are ready for future deliveries of vaccines, which they will also adapt to some possible new mutations that we do not yet know. Today we have delta, lambda, there may be others. But it's true that these companies, of course, are counting on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u108	At this point, we will proceed to the interpellation put by Mrs Věra Kovářová on behalf of Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u109	Madam Secretary, I am addressing you with the same question as I have addressed the Prime Minister, and this is the following. In recent days we have seen growing numbers of the number infected with coronavirus. In autumn, the situation may be all sorts of things, and in the event of a very unfavorable development, which I firmly hope will not happen, it would be necessary to call again the integrated rescue system component and students to help. According to the information available, however, not all extraordinary service fees and assistance from the past wave of pandemics, which was not only very demanding for health professionals, have been reimbursed. We all have a vivid memory of how the government dealt with payouts for paramedics, as well as helping students, how their payments lasted for a long time and have been really difficult at times. Evidently, the lesson was not great, because this unfortunate scenario is repeated with policemen and firemen, soldiers, and others. Madam Secretary, I ask, why is the government acting like this? Why do you promise, but you don't pay? And when will all the promised extraordinary aid rewards be paid during the pandemic, whether for policemen, firemen, soldiers, customs officers and others? And will they really be paid? Or is it just another promise that the government would rather forget? As I said in my interview with the Prime Minister, I really wouldn't want to live in such an ungrateful republic. And let me just remind you that the Prime Minister said that it was your job to find the funds for these very rewards. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u110	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u111	Thank you. Madam, I would like to point out openly here in front of everyone that I greatly appreciate the work of the armed forces, whether they are policemen, firefighters, soldiers or, for example, the mentioned customs officers, who belong to the Ministry of Finance, and also that I have remembered this as Secretary of Finance in budgets, especially during this pandemic period. Last year the remuneration, the remuneration of police officers and firefighters was released, although I proposed a freeze of civil servants' salaries, so for this group, obviously I am not talking about teachers, I am not talking about health professionals and so on, so in 2020 it went to remuneration - I repeat - 1.2 billion. And I - I am very sorry that this group of great people who help in the pandemic and take care of our country's security become the subject of politics, because even in the draft budget for 2021, I gave 700 million to the remuneration of police officers and firefighters, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior. The amount was then still an amendment, I believe that Mr Ondráček, I do not know exactly now, was increased by another 100 million, so 800 million. [[16.40 hours]] It is, of course, in the spirit of the Minister of the Interior when he pays them off. Not to mention there's another 162 million in unexploded claims. As far as customs are concerned, don't worry there, I'm handling this under the chapter. I don't need to go honking on all corners. I know how to find it in the chapter, and I appreciate customs, they know that, because I appreciate their work. So first of all, this money has to be used within the scope of the chapter. However, I will also remember this - and now I am putting it together, today we sat with Mr Grolich, the governor - dealing with the situation after the tornado, not leaving these people behind, so we are putting together help, and not only private persons to rebuild their housing, but also to rebuild - and that was mainly the subject of public property negotiations today. So I think... I'd be happy to send you charts of the rise, whether police, firefighters - salaries now I mean - soldiers, teachers, paramedics. It would be a lot of graphs, and they'll all be clearly steeply rising under our government. On the contrary, I would not want to live in a country where the Pirstan coalition will rule. Because when I'm studying your election program, I see we're all looking at a lot of skinny summers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u112	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u113	Thank you for summing up what you did last year, but the question was this year. I don't know what - you said you didn't have the need to honk somewhere, but the media seemed to be interested in this subject, and I'm mostly from the media. That's why I'm asking how it is. You could perhaps - I'm sorry to say so - honk when the rewards will be paid, because the Prime Minister said that it was your job in cooperation with the other ministers. So I assume you're going to answer that question about how it's going to be this year and when the rewards will be paid. On your last incorrect comment about the thin years that await us: yes, we are waiting for the skinny years. But you know why? Well, thanks to you! Because you're stuck with such an important axe that it's hard for other governments to pull out and raise money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u114	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u115	I repeat, Madame. In the budget for 2021, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior, I increased the budget for the remuneration of police officers and firefighters to the sum of only 700 million. As part of the legislative process in this Chamber of Deputies, it was increased by 100 million, which is 800 million, and the payment is fully in the gesture of the relevant ministry. I don't talk to ministries about when and how they're supposed to pay their wages. Of course, I will also look for other resources within the priorities that are there. Well, about the axe. I remember how you put x proposals here - and not just your coalitions, but other opposition Members, let me be fair - on raising and making a much bigger axe in the state budget. However, those people you are very interested in now would not have gotten anything if they had not managed to negotiate on this House's grounds the support of seven state budgets, and especially those of the last few years in the covido years, because that would mean that the economy would not have gone to the koruna instead of 466 billion to 30 6., which would have gone to the economy to help the devastated pandemic, whether to companies, citizens or in general to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u116	Thank you. Next, Mrs Karla Maříková will speak to Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, on Friday you said that restaurants could be required to control the infectivity of their guests in future mobile applications. In the last interview, I warned you that according to the interpretation of the lawyers, neither the police nor the regional sanitation station has the right to carry out preventive checks to such a wide extent. Besides, there's no one to enforce it. And now you're coming up with another idea that doesn't support the law because private entities simply can't control their guests. How are you going to do that? Should we expect any further orders from the Ministry of Health, which will then be abolished by the Supreme Administrative Court for their unlawfulness or unconstitutionality? Are you even aware that not everyone has a smartphone, not everyone can download such an app and that you can't even make anyone download an app? And don't you find it a little pointless that, on the one hand, a citizen should be shown vaccination, or a test, when entering an establishment, and on the other hand, an honest statement is enough? I think it already follows that the whole measure is absolutely pointless. I even read today that they want people's certificates at the swimming pools. A private subject, as I said, has no right to control the infectivity of its guests, and if it is based on any of your regulations, you force private entities to break the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u118	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first thing I'd like to say is correct. With regard to the measures abolished by the courts, virtually no measures that I have taken as Minister of Health have been abolished by the courts. The fact that some measures have been repealed in the past is true. But I made it clear when I went to the Ministry of Health that I would, of course, fully respect the decision of the court, although I may not have to agree with them, and I will certainly not do anything that would be illegal in any way or not in accordance with the decision of the court. So just enough to get us clear about what the situation is and isn't. About the restaurant verification issue. I said it's a good idea, given that we have a great Dot app, where one can easily prove that it meets the so-called OTN, which means vaccination, test or disease loss, and that that would make it very easy to verify the infectivity. After all, we discussed this with the representatives of the restaurants and these associations, who generally liked the idea and perceived that it could really be simplified. And I just said that this is some kind of reflection. But, of course, I have added - and you have not mentioned this, Mrs - in this media statement too, I have added that we must assess this from a legal point of view, that it must be assessed by lawyers, whether by the Ministry or by me already consult the key measures in this regard, and I would also like to consult representatives of, for example, the Legislative Council of the Government, whether that is possible or not. Because, yes, you're saying some kind of legal opinion. I think it is necessary not only to rely on one particular lawyer's opinion, whatever the lawyer is, but to have a broader assessment. And that's how I want to deal with it. So I said, technically, I think that would be good, that would be a very quick verification. Among other things, it's not an anomaly. Many of my colleagues told me that she was in Austria recently, and it works as standard. In Austria, when you go to a restaurant, the waiter checks your certificate as well as when you go to a hotel. It's absolutely standard wherever you come into service. So I don't think it's anything that's anomalous, that thought. On the contrary, it is Austria's inspiration that I think is quite good. But once again, it is a question of assessing the legal basis whether this is possible or not. That's what colleagues are working on. This means that no such measure is on the table, and I am therefore waiting for the opinion of my fellow lawyers so that we can be sure that there is never such certainty. As the court decides, it is always within the jurisdiction of the court, it is its jurisdiction, only the court can interpret the laws binding on us. But we must do everything we can to prevent, of course, any measure from being lifted. And this is how I approach it, every measure. [[16.50 hours]] So it really isn't appropriate to blame me for taking measures that would disturb the courts, because I, on the contrary, was coming out of the courts and their decisions. Among other things, the first thing I did when I came to the Ministry of Health now in the second mandate, that I loosened up all services a few days after I joined, precisely on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which, from my point of view, was far too restrictive in my interpretation, but in short, I respected this judgment, so I will continue to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u120	Thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I've been intersecting you the last time in an oral interview, who is directly responsible for issuing various illegal measures or processing. You promised some kind of audit. Do you have any results yet? Can you introduce us to them? And he has another question. Since vaccinations should therefore benefit by proving themselves in a vaccination facility, which should mean that they are infectable, you are not afraid of the Israeli Government saying that the ability of the MRNA vaccine to prevent infection and prevent symptomatic disease of COVID-19 has fallen to 64 percent, the Israeli Government announced on Monday night. Could it be that even vaccinations can be infectious and can continue to spread the infection? And that would also be a risk for those arriving from abroad who will not be subject to quarantine, even though they are also coming from risky countries, precisely because they have already had two doses of vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u122	Thank you. The Minister is about to answer, so I'll give him my word, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u123	Thank you for the floor. As far as the audit I was talking about is concerned, it is under way. It's an internal audit of the Ministry of Health, and I'm waiting for his conclusions. I don't think it's possible to conduct such an audit in a few days, but it really needs to be meticulous. My colleagues are working on it and I'm waiting for his results. But I think and again I say that under my leadership, the Ministry is trying to make the most of these possible and some of the mistakes it has made in the interpretation of laws or laws, and it will certainly respect the decisions of the courts. Regarding the issue of post-vacation protection, yes, there is some partial information from Israel. But I don't think we can rely on any piece of information from one state, any state it is. I think we need valid international studies in this regard, which will be presented by such authorities as the European Medicines Agency and the like, and then we can adjust our strategy accordingly. But at this point - and I think Israel is saying it too - that if one is vaccinated with two doses of vaccine, the risk of developing the disease in some difficult way is much lower than if one is not vaccinated. And even the test isn't 100%. Yeah, nothing's 100%. No vaccine protects 100%, which is clear, even the best vaccines protect from some 90 to 94 percent. And even if you test yourself, it's not 100% that you're really infected. That's clear, but we have to take the benefit versus the risk. And clearly, if a person is inoculated, the probability of developing a disease and being infectious is significantly lower than when he is not inoculated. [[Time. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u124	Thank you. Next, Mr Pavel Jelínek will speak to Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is pushing for the abolition of coronavirus restrictions, including compliance with distance from others, even if the infected are currently increasing in the country. In particular, I was impressed by his words when Britain would be able to live with the covid because the link between the cases of the disease and the number of hospitalized ones had already been broken. According to the Daily Mail, the British government abandoned the plan to demonstrate the compulsory confirmation of the loss of vaccination against cod when visiting concerts, sports competitions and other mass events after 19 July, i.e. on the date of the end of the restrictions introduced due to the cancer pandemic. Part of the plan was originally showing the covid passport. Such demands are in great conflict with a democratically oriented society. Similar considerations about the application of the covid passports are also taking place in our government and are in my opinion the wrong way. The numbers infected in Britain, to put it mildly, are disturbing, and yet the British Prime Minister insists on ending the restrictions. According to numbers, however, the relationship between new diseases and hospitalized ones is at 10 per cent and the number of deaths per 2 per cent of January figures. So my question is, what numbers does our government have at their disposal, what predictions come out of them, when you finally end your outdated restrictions, and you start treating the covide and treating it as a flu according to the model of Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u126	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, yes, we certainly follow the situation and approach of the UK very closely, although I must say that, as I read the articles from Britain and the expression of the various actors, I feel that this is rather a political decision, rather than a professional decision. If you look at, for example, the British medical society or some scientists in Britain express their views on this decision, they are quite critical or very reserved for it, with the statement made by Prime Minister Johnson. And I don't think that this is quite clear because the delta variant, perhaps today lambda, is spreading quite significantly, they have about 30,000 cases in Britain today. Yes, you are right, there are no numbers in the number of hospitalizations, but one thing needs to be added - see what vaccinations are in the UK and what vaccinations are in the Czech Republic. That's a big difference. The figures on vaccination in the UK, which, from the beginning, thanks to various perhaps ties to some suppliers, was a pioneer for vaccination, had much higher vaccination rates than the rest of Europe or the European Union. That's also one of the things that should be heard. It is not only that Britain decides to release measures, but it also releases them at a time when the inoculation, full of two-dose vaccinations, is at a much higher level than in the Czech Republic, and probably subsequently the British government assumes that the risk of introducing or increasing the number of hospitalizations is not significant, which is true from the data that it looks that way so far. But again, Britain is in a different situation. When we're in a situation like the United Kingdom that we're going to have at least 70 percent of the population fully vaccinated here, I think we might also be able to talk about this kind of approach. But at this point, I believe that the Czech Republic is not in this situation. I hope we get to it as soon as possible. But it also needs to be said that it is a question of how obvious this decision is. I think last summer has shown that in summer, the virus is also acting in a different way than, for example, the autumn or winter season. No doubt I think it's already clearly proven that UV radiation has an effect on the virus, that it may be slightly weakened. Of course, the data is not valid yet, because it is a relatively short period, but we can see how the virus showed itself last year in the summer and in the Czech Republic or in other countries, how many hospitalizations we had, also very small numbers, and how the situation changed, for example, in autumn or winter, when the number of hospitalizations grew. So I would really be more cautious in this regard. Let's evaluate the situation. [[17,00 hours]] And I say again - I have said this several times - it is not my intention at the moment to make any tightening up of measures, but at the same time to reduce them. I'd like to keep them at this level where they're at. Let's see how we can inoculate the population in the Czech Republic, even if we can think of it as anyone who wants what they want. But Great Britain is in this situation where it can afford it because of its inoculation. And we'll see how the virus behaves especially after the summer. If this situation continues to calm down and doesn't escalate, there won't be any increase in the number of hospitalizations, then I'll be the last one to say, let's have some restrictive measures here. And I think that then we can really afford to relax these measures. But before that, I'd warn you about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u128	Thank you. Is there any interest in asking an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u129	Thank you for your answers. Data just about the Delta variant from Britain is talking about significantly lower hospitalization and significantly lower mortality, which is certainly interesting data. However, Britain shows a high number of vaccinations, that's true. Lately, however, people who are willing to receive vaccinations and expensive advertising campaigns have not attracted people. Does the Ministry still think it was a good decision to end the development of our own vaccine? The national vaccine would certainly have a much greater degree of trust from the population, and the government would not have to force the population to be vaccinated like this. So I'm going to ask what the Ministry is planning in this area so that we can end this pandemic situation and get into a state of inoculation like Britain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u130	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u131	Thank you for the follow-up questions. Czech vaccine - of course, the project is running in some way. Now we're judging him on how to deal with him. On the other hand, it is not even in the clinical trial phase, so it is probably not expected that we could rely on it at this point, even if the vaccine turned out well, because it is simply not even in the clinical trial phase, which takes some time. We're coming out of the vaccines we have. The vaccines are registered, although you may have a different opinion, or some colleagues here in the House, so the vaccines are registered and thus proven to be effective and safe. I don't think there's any reason to worry about people getting vaccinated with these vaccines. That they have any side effects? Each vaccine has some side effects. Almost every drug has some side effects. If you look at the package leaflet of any medicine, you'll see that the side effects are simply listed, so that's how it is with the vaccines. But once again, there is always a need to compare benefits and risks. As I say, once again, when it comes to vaccination and the prospect of measures and their dislodgement, if we come to this goal, which not only has the Czech Republic but also other countries, to 70% of vaccination, full of vaccination, that is, two doses within the population, when we will actually protect collectively, plus, of course, part of the people who have experienced the disease is also protected for some time, at least 180 days, so in that case we can afford to relax. At this point, if the virus is still circulating in society, and we see it now again on the current increase especially in younger generations, I think we still have to be very cautious. And we're not 70% inoculation on that target. [[Time.]] We'll hopefully be in September.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u132	Thank you. Next, Mr Jan Skopeček, with an interview with the Minister of Finance, will speak to Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u133	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you about the draft state budget for next year, or for one part of it. For next year, you are proposing a deficit of CZK 390 billion. Despite the coronation, it is, of course, an incredible budget hit. This is the third such deficit in a row. In addition, such axes are planned for more than 300 billion crowns by 2024. It's something incredible, and it's obviously a fall into a debt trap. But it is all the more astonishing that there is no money available for key sectors that will create our long-term prosperity. I am talking specifically about the expenditure on science and research which, according to the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, are to be reduced for next year's budget. According to the medium-term outlook, CZK 38 billion was to go to this area, which was to grow by at least half a billion compared to this year, although representatives of scientific institutions and organisations talked about the need for an amount of nearly CZK 40 billion. However, the Ministry of Finance finally reduced this item to CZK 36.1 billion in the draft budget, which is more than one billion less than this year. Of course, the proposal does not take into account inflation in any way, which, of course, reduces the real amount of money for science and research further. In my opinion, this budget reduction will weaken the possibilities of research, reduce investment in science, and in the future, it will, in my view, hinder what we are all certainly trying to do, namely that our economy should be built on innovation, on a higher technological basis. [[Time.]] Your proposal to cut money is all the more incomprehensible, that other items, such as spending on civil servants, are growing in the proposal for next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u134	Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u135	Thank you for the floor. Dear Member, I would like to say, yes, the Government has approved a preliminary draft of revenue and expenditure for the budget chapters for the years 2022 to 2024. The proposal for an overall amount of expenditure in support of research, development and innovation, including expenditure covered by external revenue, currently amounts to 47.99 billion for 2022, compared to the approved budget of 2021, which was 47, 71 billion, and thus increased. The chapter was strengthened by 280 million last year. So you are right about one thing, that there is a smaller share of the state budget, but there is an increase from the instrument of support and recovery under the National Recovery Plan, where part of the support from these sources was also increased. However, I suppose not, but I know that at the turn of July, August will update the macroeconomic forecast and start negotiations on the budget, which will be sent by the government after its approval to the Chamber of Deputies, and I am counting on an increase, because that is one of the priorities. So we also agreed with my government colleague, Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, to strengthen this part of the chapter by an amount that will be at least one billion, perhaps even more. Just a little bit more in general. This year the approved deficit is 500 billion, next year 390, which is a difference of 110 billion. That's not enough to find it in your budget. And those officials you keep enchanting for, and believe me, you're not going to cut any tens of billions in there, those are the teachers. I've shown you that graph several times. I'll send it back to you. They're teachers, they're policemen, firemen, soldiers. Officials, on the contrary, municipal officials are falling for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u136	The Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u137	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary will always use the numbers she can use. She now compared the draft last year's budget of 500 billion, but she forgot to say that the deficit was bloated, that it ended to a much smaller extent, and that she was proposing an even bigger budget deficit than how the economy ended in the Great Covido crisis. So, on the other hand, you're making the economy worse, or you're proposing to make the management worse next year. You're just doing magic with numbers. [[17.10 hours]] For me, however, it is not an argument for me to use money from the European Union and to reduce national resources. In my opinion, the money from the European Union should also be for something we want to build up, something for which we can use the money to move Czech science, Czech innovation, Czech research to a higher level. If we act by reducing national resources and increasing European money, we will not move science anywhere and the Czech Republic anywhere. So I will closely monitor how the state budget negotiations will develop, and I will take you at your word that you will try to raise money for science and research. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u138	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Then please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u139	Follow 100%, because it's one of the priorities. No government has ever added so much to science and research. We could do the graphs again, like since 2007, to see how much money there was. And on top of that budget, again: you cannot compare the plan with the result. The plan last year was 500, the result is 367. This year's plan is 500. Next year's plan is 390. Let's always compare the plan and the outcome. So I'd just like to make a note of that. And let me be fair: I'm also studying your electoral program, i.e. the coalition of the SPOLU, and you're making cuts roughly according to the outlook, as you plan to reduce the structural deficit, year on year for about 91, 92 billion, I'm still counting it. On the revenue side, you're building a hole for 30 to 70 billion, and it's hard to calculate from the vague proposals. So we'd take the 50th average, 90th and 50th is 140th, so that makes us happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u140	Thank you. Next, Mr. Jan Čižinský will speak to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u141	Thank you. Minister, I would like to follow up on the interview of my colleague Kaňkovský, because both you and Mrs. Chief Hygiene are talking about the third doses and autumn, winter is coming. This means that clear steps and concrete steps are needed. However, I have news that during his recent visit to the National Vaccine Center, Prime Minister Babiš expressed himself in a way that can be interpreted in a way that, in fact, vaccines are ordered in autumn or winter to be sufficient for medical professionals. That means, I would really like specific numbers, specific dates. I would like to ask what vaccines you ordered, what number and date of delivery, if any information will go to the general practitioners, and that they will be counted on, and when the information will go to the practice. At the same time, your response to my colleague Kaňkovský was internally contradictory. I understand that there are no clear indications from the European Medicines Agency, I understand that. At the same time, however, there was information about orders, which I call it, but I would really like the numbers, which vaccines and in what deadlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u142	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, thank you for your question. First, a little recap, because you wanted data, so let's really look at specific numbers. By 30 June 2021 9,6 million doses of vaccines were delivered to the Czech Republic. If we take the total amount of mandatory benefits, it will arrive in the Czech Republic during the next year over 14 million additional doses. In the third quarter of this year we can expect delivery of about 7.3 million additional doses, in the last quarter approximately 3 million doses. In the first quarter of 2022, more than one million doses of vaccines will be delivered on the basis of orders already sent. The rest will arrive by the end of the second quarter of next year. At this point, it is very difficult to estimate whether all of these vaccines can be used to re-inoculate, unfortunately, there are no conclusive studies. And I say again, there is still no indication of the term re-inoculation or whether it will be necessary to re-inoculate all citizens, or just those vaccinated with a certain type of vaccine or with a worse immune response. Only on the basis of these data do you see that in terms of the volume of the ordered doses of vaccines, so even if everyone had to re-inoculate, which will result in one dose, not two doses very likely, the volume is sufficient. But again, we don't know when it's going to be, but we have to be ready for it. The Ministry of Health is therefore preparing for re-inoculation and we are taking part in another joint purchase of vaccines under the leadership of the European Commission for the years 2022 and 2023, because it may be necessary to carry out the re-inoculation each year, so we must be involved in future and purchases. The contents of these contracts are already possible to order vaccines adapted to different virus mutations. In fact, we have also talked about this, if the mutations or vaccines are available, so we are counting on these modified vaccines as part of the joint purchases organised by the European Commission, as well as the version of the vaccine, if any - now I see colleagues here, they will definitely be articles - possibly for children or infants. This is not to say that the vaccination will be mandatory for these groups, but you know that the current clinical trial is taking place and the vaccine may still be registered for children under 12 years of age. So if that were the case, we would, of course, also be counting on these vaccines, which may be somehow modified for these children, in order. But, of course, it will be voluntary, if these younger children are vaccinated, it will certainly matter as much as in children of 12+ on their legal representatives. But we're also counting on ordering these vaccines for children in joint purchases. The European Commission has so far concluded a contract with Pfizer/BioNTech and the Czech Republic is entitled to up to 20 million doses of vaccine for the years 2022 and 2023. That's our share in joint purchases, which means it's the maximum possible number we're entitled to. I say again, it's enough doses to re-inoculate everyone vaccinated for both years and for the vaccination of other candidates, if anyone would simply want to be vaccinated for who isn't inoculated. Now the European Commission is finishing work on another two-year contract with the manufacturer of Moderna, the second manufacturer of mRNA vaccine, which will provide similar conditions. We are also, of course, involved in these negotiations. Moreover, if we know that already ordered vaccines will come to the Czech Republic, we have the certainty of sufficient vaccine, whether the re-occurrence date is set for any time. So, in this regard, I think that the Czech Republic is saturated in terms of supplies, and it will, of course, be a question of the time of re-occurrence that we are waiting for in the European Medicines Agency's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u144	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u145	Thank you for the numbers. Maybe I'd like two more refills. One number I'd like to ask if you know what it is now, I've listened carefully to the numbers, how many doses are available at this time, if we take the mRNA vaccines, how much is now available, because then I actually noticed that they have to come in another 4 million in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter of 2023. Which should be, say, 6 million if we're counting on it to take place at the turn of the year. And then the next thing is the infrastructure, so I'd like to ask if there's going to be any communication towards practical doctors, and especially if there's an IT system that allows them to connect their patients to the computer they're taking care of, just with the vaccination system and with ISIN, so it's easy to write. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u146	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u147	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I repeat, in the third quarter of this year, that means 2021, we can expect a delivery of 7.3 million doses of vaccine, then about 3 million doses in the last quarter of this year, so by the end of the year 10 million doses, so here I think - about - so here I think the problem really shouldn't be. As far as the question of practitioners is concerned, of course, we are communicating with them. I've been communicating with the Practicing Doctors' Association and the General Medicine Professional Society, so the communication is ongoing. But once again, it's a first-time question for health insurance companies, which is happening now, to compete with the distributor of all the vaccines. The competition is now set if something hasn't changed, and I don't think so, it's really in the gesture of health insurance for four years, that is, for four years the distributor should be competing, but it will be a framework contract. It will be seen as necessary, but simply so that it is guaranteed, and on this basis every practical physician will be able to order the vaccines according to his needs, depending on how his patients are interested in vaccination, and the distributor will deliver the vaccine to him - any vaccine, including Pfizer, which will, of course, be the dominant vaccine, to his office. When it comes to the question of technical solutions to the connection to ISIN and so on, I think that after now they are already running, practical doctors are inoculating, it is not that they do not inoculate. Yes, they may not inoculate so massively, but they'll inoculate, which means, it's putting the data into the ISIN. Yes, things can still get better, fix some problems, but I don't think it's like it doesn't work, those practical doctors are already adapted to it. The problem was, in some ways, rather a lack of vaccines, but it will fall off during the fall period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u148	Thank you. Next, Mr Marian Bojko will speak to Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like you to listen, Minister. I've been intersecting you a lot of Comirnata vaccines at the last meeting. I'm not gonna read the whole thing. There's a log when I asked you. I wonder if every drug has to be brutally studied and clinically studied, how you could allow registration or authorisation to distribute an unregistered drug. And you answered me - ladies and gentlemen, I'm not quite sure I understood the question, but anyway I heard there - how you could afford it. No, I said how could you allow yourself to register a drug or a vaccine? I have to say, we don't register a vaccine or a cure. Vaccines are subject to the central registration of the European Medicines Agency. This means the Ministry of Health does not decide, nor does the State Institute for Drug Control decide what vaccine will be registered. It is a process that takes place at the level of the European Medicines Agency, and it simply applies to the whole of the European Union, although you can certainly think of it as your own, but that is simply how the process exists. And I have an official document from Prague on 31 May 2021 n.e.c. MZDR 22643/2021-3 OLZP, which says: "On 31 May 2021. 5. 2021 the Ministry of Health of the State Institute for Drug Control, hereinafter referred to as the Institute, requested an expert opinion within the meaning of Section 8 (6) of the Act on Medicines for the purpose of issuing measures whereby the Ministry would temporarily authorise the distribution, supply and use of the medicinal product of Comirnata in the Czech Republic, since this medicinal product is not registered within the European Union.' - May 31st. So I think somebody's lying, Mr. Secretary, huh? So I'm wondering where the thousands of documents, the pages in the few weeks you've been... and that means that there are people vaccinated here with an unregistered product. How will you proceed if you have damaged someone's health? I'd really like to know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u150	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u151	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this was the typical example, a textbook example of how misinformation arises. There's gonna be a thing, some one document without any context, and you're gonna say that's the way it goes in general. Unfortunately, it's not like that. What you are talking about is indeed an exception to the release of a vaccine that is not registered within the European Union by the European Medicines Agency, because the European Medicines Agency does not only register the vaccine itself, but actually register the vaccine for Europe. Then we have vaccines that are exactly the same, for example, a vaccine from Pfizer, which is registered for a country outside the European Union. And that was probably - I don't know the specific case - but this case where we are getting it, and we've also been dealing with these vaccines, various donations, possibly some vaccine lending, like from Israel or some countries that are outside the European Union, where it's the Comirnata vaccine, as you say, from Pfizer/BioNTech, which is not registered for the European Union, it means that the Ministry of Health must release it, or SÚKL, into the Czech Republic. But it's not like the vaccine wasn't registered. She's just not registered for the European Union like the other vaccines we buy through the central mechanism. It's registered for Israel or some other country, but it's the same vaccine. But it's not that the vaccine isn't centrally registered - it's centrally registered. Standardly, all vaccines purchased by the Czech Republic are registered by the European Medicines Agency and there is no other vaccine here. But then there may be the same vaccines that are registered for another country, they have the same composition, but they aren't actually registered for the European Union, which means they have to go to our market - that's really not a professional question, but rather a question of entering the European Union market - through the Ministry of Health. So here it is necessary to distinguish the standard mechanism, which actually, if the vaccine is registered, is registered by the European Medicines Agency and can therefore be used, applied throughout the European Union. And then there are vaccines that are the same, but they're registered for America, for Israel, for third countries. And then, of course, if we want to apply it in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Health must release it. But it's not the registration mechanism you're talking about, that the vaccine wouldn't be registered as a vaccine. It is a question of placing on the European Union market, which, of course... which is provided by the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control. So we really need to see the context. It's not like we're inoculating an unregistered vaccine here. The vaccine is registered, but only for another country, not for the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u152	Thank you. Is there an interest in asking an additional question? I see you do. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u153	Thank you for the floor. I didn't take anything out of context, I just specifically asked. So we're vaccination here with an unregistered vaccine, other vaccines are for the American market, and others are for Israel and so on. I wonder how it's gonna be if these people have any consequences. Here's one thing I'd like to ask you. Yesterday, Minister Hamáček, when we were asking about the... or our changelings... The last one is about the certificates or the infectivity of the electoral committees: "There are human rights flying through the air, but I think the right to life is also one of the fundamental human rights, and I see no reason why someone should have died by suffocation in the intensive care unit just because some idiot refused to be tested or vaccinated. So it's also a human right, and I don't see why to take people's right to life just because someone's spreading that kind of nonsense. So if someone is to sit on a committee, they should not be primarily threatening voters and should not endanger their colleagues on that committee by putting them at risk." So that means people won't be able to wear a drape on that committee, but they'll have to have a certificate of testing or vaccination? [[Time.]] I want specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u154	I'll ask for disinfectant. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u155	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. In addition to what Mr Bojko says about the vaccine he is talking about, the comirnat, unregistered. This was a gift from Serbia, among other things, and I have now remembered that indeed Serbia has given us 100,000 vaccines Pfizer, which is not a country of the European Union, so that is why this has been done. [[17.30 hours]] When it comes to the question of the electoral commission, you must ask Minister Hamáček. I don't know what he meant or what he meant. But I suppose if there's just a larger number of people in one place, then there'll have to be evidence of infectivity, that's a test or vaccination or a history of disease. But you have to ask Minister Hamáček in this regard, as planned, I really don't know. I'm not the creator of that quote you're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u156	Thank you. Next, Mr Jakub Michálek will speak to Minister Marie Benešová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u157	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a question concerning experts and their remuneration. This is an issue which is linked to the fact that we have approved a new law on experts during this parliamentary term, and we are still facing a major problem with the decline of experts. At the same time, experts are absolutely crucial when it comes to the conduct of criminal proceedings, civil proceedings and other similar proceedings. For example, if we want to combat corruption, there is very little cause where no experts perform. Yet the rewards of these experts are very low and are essentially incomparable with what an educated and competent person can earn in the labour market. Unfortunately, I also receive very sad letters from experts who leave the profession. The Ministry informed me that it is aware of the number of experts' declines by about 1,000 people, that this corresponds to the prediction that they are mostly inactive experts, that the declining number of experts is a reflection of the lack of experts in the area and that unfortunately the Ministry of Justice failed to push for an increase in the budget chapter to increase experts' remuneration in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. So, given how important it is for experts in all the various proceedings that depend on expert opinions to be available on time, to be competent, indisputable, indisputable, unscathed, I want to ask what concrete steps the Ministry will take to resolve the situation with the lack of experts and with their completely inadequate compensation for this important activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u158	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u159	Thank you for the floor. Dear Member, the situation you have put here is not as tragic as you say. I responded to your written interview on 16 April this year, and the 1,000 experts who reduced the condition were actually predicted because they were experts old, sick, and inactive. At the same time we have new candidates and also in the original response to your written interpelation I said that only during the first quarter we had about 40 new experts and we are currently overwhelmed by requests to be included among experts by some new experts. I also welcome the fields that were essentially unattractive before and where we had a small selection. Of course, money is important, and if it wasn't for the coronation, we would have negotiated better terms, but, as you know, I didn't get much more, and it's probably more difficult for me to do, so I'm going to repeat this to Minister Schillerová, and we're going to appeal again to the increase in the next year, when we're going to try to make the money higher. However, some addition was here and the new legislation also has other advantages, and the fact that it is more modern, more complex, earlier it was only according to the basic decree. There is a reduction in administrative intensity, there is no need to keep expert journals, submit them every year for inspection, and those experts are sure that they will be entitled after compliance with the legal conditions. So we're just going to try to raise the money, otherwise it turns out that the law is very well made and that it's not as scary as it originally seemed and as it was written to us at first. At the same time, there is methodological support for experts in the performance of expert activities, and the Ministry educates them in the framework of the Justice Academy, and, on the one hand, we publish templates and model expert reports to improve what is needed, what is monitored, and we issue surveillance messages in order to determine the predictability of the supervisory activity. We are currently preparing the next stage for the commission of many experts. I'm guessing there's going to be another 40, 40 experts, so we're going to complement that. That's probably all I can tell you about it, and I believe that the money will be raised next year, and Secretary Schillerová is counting on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u160	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u161	Thanks for the word. Mr President, thank you for your reply to the Minister. First of all, I wanted to express my complete support for the efforts made by the Minister here, and we have improved the situation in this area in order to really increase the remuneration for experts. I wanted to ask, in addition to the number of experts, whether, for example, the time taken for an average expert opinion to be processed for official purposes or the degree of questioning the expert opinion so that we could be sure and calm the public that, as a result of the reform and the new law, these basic parameters of quality and speed had not deteriorated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u162	Thank you. Madam Secretary is interested in answering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u163	Of course, it is being watched, and this was also the aim of the new law - to improve quality. So the supervisory activity by the Ministry, it is given increased attention, and especially since New Year's, when numerous questions have fallen on us, it is precisely those questions that have also focused on quality. The ministry's oversight has been tightened, which I consider desirable. We're also tracking the activities you mentioned, the tinkle reviews, because if there's any suspicion, then we're focusing on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u164	Thank you. Next, Mrs Olga Richterová will speak to Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u165	Thank you for the floor. I am turning to the absent minister with the fact that, in the area of IT infrastructure of the state and related services, our country is still not moving towards modern services which would, on the one hand, be sufficiently helpful for us citizens, but also friendly for the use of officials. I have an up-to-date question about the state of the system that was due to start early 2020 and to remove routine work from officials in addressing the employment applicant's agenda at the employment office, job registration or so-called active employment policy. It is a large package of services that would help them, but the system is still not in operation. The beginning of 2020, that's a year and a half ago. Such a delay has a system called IS ZAM and is said to be constantly being tested. [[17.40 hours]] I am therefore interested in the current status of this project Information System Employment, and secondly whether it is necessary to draw up a contract or conclude a contractual relationship with OKsystem to complete the data transfer in this information system IS ZAM and, if so, what amount and for what reason. At the same time, I wonder if it is on the employment section but also on other sections that there is a higher fluctuations due to inappropriate information systems. I request information on the turnover of employees at the Labour Office broken down by positions and contact branches so that it can be seen how it works, ideally since 2014. From the point of view of the employees of the Labour Office, a well-managed transition to new technological support is simply important so that they can be individually dedicated to people and faster. Today, according to the feedback I have from them, they must print the documents sent through the data boxes, then scan them and store them as images. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u166	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. Next, Mr Lubomír Liberír Volný will speak to Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u167	Thank you. I have a question about Mrs Maláčová, who concerns the House of Seniors in Ostrava Na Kamenci, because from a personal conversation with one of the clients of this senior home, I learned that 55 seniors of 60 were to die in this retirement home on one floor after receiving vaccination in the first quarter of this year, so I would like to ask the Minister to provide information on how many people died in this senior home after receiving vaccination against COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u168	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I will ask for the disinfection of the pitch. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Mr. Petr Beitl will be prepared with an interview for Minister Jan Hamáček. Thank you. And I will read Mr Antonín Staněk's apology, who apologizes for the meeting for health reasons today in the afternoon from 14.30 to the end of the day and tomorrow throughout the day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u169	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent minister, my question or initiative is based on the experience of regional elections and concerns the elections to be held this autumn and, indeed, all other elections. According to the methodology of the Ministry of the Interior, the mayors of the municipalities were to provide hand disinfectants for voters. We probably agree that, given that this is a public space, one of the most appropriate and hygienic facilities is an automatic non-contact disinfectant dispenser, one that is now standing in every store and for which citizens are therefore used, ideally on the stand. Simple type costs about CZK 2,000. But what was the surprise of the mayors when they learned from the Ministry of the Interior that when the disinfectant dispensers were provided, the costs incurred in purchasing them are not among the eligible electoral costs. Dear Minister, I'm asking the mayors from my region: Do you want to save on this? Are disinfectants in dispensers that are primarily intended for households, not for mass use in public space, really to be used in the polling room at such an event? I am convinced that hand disinfection in an environment where there is a greater number of people will become the norm even after the end of the coronavirus crisis. Touchless dispensers should therefore become common equipment for electoral rooms even in the future. I therefore ask you to advocate a systemic and rational solution to the compensation of the electoral costs incurred by the municipalities in relation to these requirements. I believe that such an approach will have a broad meaning for the whole country, and not just in elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u170	Thank you. It will also be answered in writing. Next, Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will speak to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u171	Good afternoon again, early evening. Dear Minister, as I mentioned in the previous interpelation, with the emergence of new, more contagious mutations, it is increasingly important to properly set the PCR sample sequence system, at a level that effectively detects new mutations, whether these are newly spreading delta mutations, lambda, but perhaps some others. For the time being, the sequencing system in our Republic does not comply with the recommendations of experts, and the percentage of sequences are still at a relatively low percentage level. Moreover, there are large regional differences. So I want to ask what steps the Ministry of Health is going to take in this direction so that we don't get into the situation as in the first months of this year with the British mutation. The second question points to a similar issue: in order to be effective and really good at fighting the COVID-19 pandemic even in the coming period, it is necessary to get back to the old proven tracking. Nor did we fully succeed in the autumn and spring months. Then, of course, when we had a significant community spread here, it wasn't even possible anymore, but we want to defend ourselves against community dissemination. So I want to ask you what kind of tracking system the Ministry of Health has set up in cooperation with regional hygiene and how the quality of the route is controlled, because it is very important that we do not experience any more lockdowns here, so that we do not have to return to the closure of our company again. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u172	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ambassador, I see you've connected two interpelations to one, probably in terms of saving time, so I'm going to try to manage the sequencing and tracing. As far as sequencing is concerned, I completely agree with you that this is because of the current situation, which is even more complicated in this regard, because the different mutations of coronavirus are more than it was in winter, so it is a really crucial thing and it is true that during the winter period completely failed to catch the onset of a more contagious British variant, the alpha variant, so today, and the truth is that the delta variant is still 60 percent more contagious than the British variant, which was already more contagious than the original one. So it's true that it's really something we need to care about, and we're interested. I came to the resort now in the second period and it was one of the first things I dealt with, so to really set up the surveillance system, we set up the sequencing system, the sequencing centers, and the strategy was approved, it is also published on the Internet, including where the sequence is being sequenced, or the centers where the sequence is being sequenced are being financed. It is not only a question of sequencing itself, but also of the so-called discriminatory PCR, that is, testing samples for the presence of mutations. The discrimination PCR is normally covered by public health insurance from 1 July and each sample according to the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health, which is effective from 1 July. 7. which is tested positively by the PCR method, must also be tested for discriminatory PCR on the basis of the emergency measure. So in this direction, the laboratory's obligation is clearly set up, and because of that, we're actually going to be very well able to analyze where these mutations occur, and then we're going to be sequencing, which is point two or the next step, where we might be able to figure out what mutations are going to be, or if there are any completely new mutations. Sequencing centers are set so that at least in each region there is no difference. We have also involved the Biological Centre of the Academy of Sciences, the State Veterinary Institute and, of course, directly managed organizations of the Ministry of Health. As a standard, funding is set. These organisations report the number of sequences carried out because this cannot be covered by public health insurance, it is not a health service as in the case of standard testing, so we pay it from the state budget of about CZK 3,500 per sequencing, per sequence. [[17.50 hours]] So it's actually going on, and I don't think there should be a system problem right now. This is primarily managed by the National Reference Laboratory of the State Health Institute, which monitors the occurrence and import of new variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the Czech Republic, and in this respect I think the system is set up correctly. The capacity for sequencing as such is 4 500 samples per month. But again, that's why -- and now I'm getting to trace -- maybe it's more fundamental to a really discriminatory PCR, because, on that basis, the sanitation station is going to learn very quickly that it's some suspicious sample where the actual mutation appears, and it can primarily focus on it. Sequencing takes several days when the time really passes, but discriminatory PCR takes place quickly, actually within 48 hours it is introduced into the information system of infectious diseases, and based on that hygiene can trace. We have set up a system where suspicious cases are primarily displayed within the so-called ISIN. It's a reinfection, it's an infection after the first dose of the vaccine, it's a disease after the second dose of the vaccine, it's an import from abroad. These are the attributes that are given to those cases, and they are so-called enlightened, highlighted in the system so that sanitary stations do not have to search for them, but they automatically fell out of the system and were able to give priority to them because it is a risk, not perhaps the standard cases where the route is done as we know it - if I do so in the second answer. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u174	I assume that Mr Kaňkovský will ask an additional question, and the Minister will be able to respond further. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u175	Yes, I'm sure. Of course, I agree with the Minister that discriminatory PCR is very important, but even the percentage of sequencing samples cannot be underestimated, according to the available numbers, as we have them, it is still at a low level, and it is not possible to meet the expectations of experts. And as far as tracking is concerned, I have a very specific question. At this point, we know that probably the most quaint location is the capital city of Prague. That means, I want to ask if you're actually evaluating the efficiency of the tracking. I have some information from two of my friends that the tracking is not strictly performed. This means how tracking in potential fires is evaluated, such as the capital city of Prague at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u176	Thank you, the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u177	Thank you. Just very briefly, sequencing is really important, I think that the number of sequencing samples will increase, as we have approved a strategy that is valid for several weeks, and the system is actually set now since I joined the Ministry of Health, so I think that the number of samples will increase, even as the number of positive samples increases. As far as tracing is concerned, I agree, it is very crucial. Tracing is in the gesture of county sanitation stations, but the system of clever quarantine is involved. I think he's been very precise over a year, actually, and he's been a stranger. The Regional Hygiene Stations use tools, are very intensively methodically controlled on issues of immediate and priority tracing of those contacts where it is suspected that there might be mutations, either delta or any other. The Covid Forms Application is still being improved, which is actually Covid Forms, where individual clusters are given and described, cases so that information is as accurate and as understandable as possible. Here I think the system is set up correctly, but I'm sure we're still improving it continuously in cooperation with the sanitation stations. But once again, I think the most important thing for us right now is to focus on those cases where we see that there is some mutation, and that thus the risk of spreading the disease can be multiplied because - again - for example, delta mutation has a reproductive number 8 and is 60 percent more contagious than the original British - alpha mutation. So I'm sure the system is set up to trace these samples first of all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u178	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will give the last interview to Minister Jana Maláčová - she is not present, so Mrs Dana Balcarová - she is not present either, so Mrs Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, you have said that once we get into a situation in the Czech Republic that anyone who wants to be vaccinated will want to stop paying for preventive tests for covid. People who refuse or are not vaccinated for health reasons could be so expensive as to live an ordinary life. In your opinion, this can be described as another way of motivating vaccination. Minister, is it a joke that you want to indirectly force those who cannot inoculate themselves for health reasons to endanger their lives or health and to inoculate themselves? They have some medical reason they can't inoculate, and you want to force them in some way. The vaccination against COVID-19 is voluntary, we can agree on this, it is covered by public health insurance, and so if someone voluntarily decides that they do not want to inoculate, and it does not matter if it is the reason for health or any other, then a certain number of tests per month should also be paid for from the health insurance. Isn't your procedure a little discriminatory against those who choose not to self-inoculate? I must point out that vaccines are approved conditionally, long-term side effects are not known, no carcinogenicity tests are completed. This method you are thinking about is some indirect compulsion for vaccination with a conditionally approved vaccine. If there's anything conditionally approved and voluntary, covered by public insurance, then there should also be an option for those who choose not to inoculate voluntarily and also contribute to public health insurance. How do they get it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u180	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please note that at 6:00 p.m., we're closing the interview. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u181	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam, yes, it is in some philosophical view of the issue. What I said, so I said only that it is really a priority - and I will repeat that and I say it here all the time - we want people to inoculate, because it is simply a one-time operation, and then there is no need to pay anything further from health insurance, so it is clearly more effective for health insurance and health insurance if one gets inoculated, not only because the insurance companies no longer have to pay for any tests, but of course they do not have to pay for any serious hospitalization of a person who is subsequently infected. So vaccination is clearly a much more effective tool for a public health insurance system than repeated testing. The testing was somehow set up, I'm sure it's time for some number of tests to be covered. Now we're not even talking about the fact that, of course, the indicated testing is covered, which will continue to be covered, that's logical. If a doctor indicates a person to test himself because he has either symptoms or has been in contact with someone who has symptoms, or the health department indicates him for testing, such testing will always be covered by public health insurance. [[18.00 hours]] However, I was talking about tests, for example, when someone travels abroad, and I am not quite sure that we should pay for public health insurance for example, when one decides to travel to a country. There I think that this is not quite the place, and it is not a matter that should be covered by public health insurance for the long term. It has nothing to do with health care, so here I think that, at some point, the number of tests covered should, for these reasons, say, have fun or some normal life, that it should simply be reduced, and the option should simply be voluntary, certainly, if anyone decides, but I think that he should possibly pay for such a test and that he should not be covered by public health insurance. That's my opinion. When that happens, I'm not saying that it will be tomorrow, I think it's some kind of perspective, maybe some autumn period, when there's really a certain vaccination of the population, but if the conditions are really set up in countries where people will travel, that they will have to have a test, I don't think this is to be covered by public health insurance, and I say this quite openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-015-547.u182	Thank you. The lady has 10 seconds, so if she wants to ask a question - she doesn't have to, she doesn't want to, so I'm saying that for today we've ended the oral questioning. I'm ending today's meeting and we'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. according to the approved program. Have a good evening. (The meeting ended at 6:00 p.m.
