ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u1	68. Government bill on mass proceedings / House print 775/ - first reading I'm gonna ask if there's gonna be a change in the rapporteur here, too. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr Marek Benda is not present. This means that we will be voting on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mr Dominik Feri. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against changing the rapporteur? Voting order number 264. Announced 96 Members, for 73, against 1. The motion was accepted. Under the authority of the Government, the motion submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, whom I give the floor. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u2	Thank you for the floor. I basically took over this government proposal on mass management from my colleague Pelikán. I note that we have him in a government statement and he was originally referred to as a priority. In this situation, therefore, the Ministry has prepared this proposal on mass proceedings and its aim is to introduce into the Czech legal system the possibility of conducting joint proceedings on the same or similar rights of consumers. [[11.50 hours]] Today there are often situations where a larger group of persons are affected from one illegal activity, and Czech procedural law cannot adequately respond to these situations. Courts have to deal with individual cases in separate proceedings, i.e. about each individual right, separate proceedings must be conducted, which is very inefficient and very lengthy. At the same time, individual consumers have an unequal position in disputes and often resign from enforcing their rights, as this does not pay them back. The law referred to will allow consumers to join together and apply all claims arising from one illegal activity by one action. The whole case will be dealt with by a single trial, and one judge deals with the same questions, and the entire case is resolved by a single judgment. More than 20 Member States already have similar arrangements in the EU, and according to the information available, it has been very successful. The draft law corresponds to European trends and also to the EU initiative reflected in the directive on proxy actions. The proposal pursues the same objectives and principles as the European directive. The directive has already been adopted and needs to be implemented into national law. The proposed bill follows in particular the following: the introduction of a procedural instrument which will make the discussion of a number of identical or similar claims more effective, thereby contributing to the removal of the court. Furthermore, its aim is to strengthen consumer protection so that they can enforce their rights in disputes with dishonest entrepreneurs faster, more efficient and cheaper. A proposal could help, for example, in the fight against bad guys. Finally, the aim is to ensure the unity of judicial decision-making in the same matters, which can contribute to strengthening confidence in Czech justice. An important element of the bill presented is the maximum effort to prevent possible abuse against honest entrepreneurs. The draft law contains a number of insurance policies and measures that should prevent this risk. Please support this bill. It is a modern instrument that will contribute to the rule of law in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u3	I thank you and ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Dominik Feri, who is also reporting with priority right for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, the bill in question introduces into our legal order an institute of so-called collective proceedings and therefore justifies bringing so-called collective actions. These are the traditional institute in Anglo-American law, the so-called class action in America, and therefore allow collective claims to be applied. This proposal has quite a long history of negotiation, but it came to us in some more limited form, submitted was 6. 3. 2020 and I have the priority right to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate, and please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u6	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. As I was saying, this proposal has been discussed for a long time. The debate revolved around whether opt-in, opt-out, who could file the lawsuits, dealt with abuse. We attended a large number of seminars, a number of comments were submitted from different parties, and even the comment procedure was very difficult. There was also a staff exchange at the Ministry, where each minister took a slightly different position on a slightly different form of the law. However, I am concerned - and I am complaining in front of the parentheses that I will not propose a refusal or a return to completion - that I am only concerned that the adoption of such a comprehensive change which changes the Czech concept of the civil process is not entirely happy at this time, because God knows if we will be able to discuss this by the end of the term of office, and I rather think that it would be good if we had to discuss this matter in committees, adopt a position on this matter, defraud the positions and then introduce the collective proceedings into the Czech civil process in the context of the recodification of the whole process, which means adopting the civil order of the court, which I hope will finally be waiting for us in the next parliamentary term. The purpose of the matter is complete. I don't know what the status of writing paragraphes is right now, but I think we're gonna get there in the next parliamentary term in the first half, and that's where the debate should be linked to the introduction of mass lawsuits. Therefore, I would just like to read the proposal for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days, so that this is discussed sufficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u7	I will write this down and ask Mr Patrik Nacher, who is enrolled in the general debate, to prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, nice noon. I have to say, I'm pleasantly surprised because I'm one of those guys who's been pressing a mass lawsuit or a mass lawsuit here, and I also have to admit that I didn't expect it to be my turn to confess today, so I'm gonna have it briefer than I originally wanted, and maybe I'm gonna do it in the details in second or third reading. As the Minister said, the institute of mass lawsuits is a very useful thing that is desperately lacking for me here, especially in the Czech environment. As has been said, it already operates in different forms in more than 20 EU countries. The institute of mass lawsuits actually helps everyone, it rarely happens to all participants. Consumers in order to gain their rights, and these are those cases that are like copycats, that is, where there is a small amount, especially on the supply side, which offers some kind of service, type banks, insurance companies, operators, etc., but where the amount is not so large that it is worth suing the consumer individually. I think it will also help entrepreneurs on the other hand, because those who treat consumers politely differ from those who so-called try. And, after all, it will help the state, because the judicial system is heavily debunked. I don't know if it's still in this material, but in the original one, and I'm gonna borrow it, it's working with the term rational apathy. I think it's a beautiful picture of the state. Those people give up rationally, they don't go into dispute at all, and then at first glance, it might look like nothing's really going on with us. But, in fact, in spite of the cultivation of the environment in recent years, the dissatisfaction is underway, and consumers are dissatisfied. Not in vain, we are one of the biggest complainants in general, but at the same time, we are almost last in line to bring these disputes to an end. So I have consistently been here since the beginning of this parliamentary term, and I am here for the first term, defending the principle of strengthening out-of-court bodies, such as the ER, the CTU, the financial arbitrary, especially, but also the institute of mass lawsuits. When you look, there are different variations in each country, as has already been said by the rapporteur, opt-in, opt-out, different variations in the scope of the law, who may be the plaintiff, various protection against abuse and bullying. From the outset, I myself have advocated that the institute of mass lawsuits should help consumers who want them to be helped and whose aim is not exactly bullying. That's why I'm from the beginning for the opt-in variant. [[12.00 hours]] And I will allow you - I have a table like this - to let you know what the current wording of this proposal is from the Ministry of Justice's workshop is, in contrast to the original one, because I feel that here in the galleries, the institute of mass lawsuits is being criticized, but I believe that the original, original standard, not the current version, is being criticized. Because she's, and she's already told Dominik Feri here, she's changed. But I don't know if everyone knows how. When we look at the plaintiff, sorry, when we look at the law's scope, in the original it was all private disputes, in the current version it's just consumer disputes. That means it's consumer protection. That's a big narrowing, that's what you have to say. When we look at the plaintiff, before that, it was the group manager, it was the investor principle, some nonprofit organization, possibly a member of the group, theoretically and damaged. In the new version, it is an established, proven non-profit organization, which solves consumer disputes, operates on the market for two years. I don't have a problem with suggesting a longer market presence so that someone doesn't feel like they're taking advantage of someone's founding an organization and then filing mass lawsuits for five years. I still think from the point of view of capacity that four, five large, nationwide civil counseling companies, financial distress counseling, People in Need and the like can handle it here. Furthermore, a damaged consumer may be heard with the written consent of ten or more consumers. That means, let's say the investor principle is abandoned. Necessary consent of damaged people in advance: not required in the original version, current version required. There are at least 10 victims with opt-in. To some extent there is still working with opt-out, which was previously the main, now there are cases that are up to 3,000 crowns of claims. I don't have a problem with opt-out being there at all. This brings me to what members are involved in the proceedings. Before it was log-in, the system, opt-out, at this point is the main weight, it's gros, opt-in. That means who feels that he should defend his rights, let him apply actively, and not wait at home for the bunks, who will put him in dispute for him, and then he'll wait to see how it turns out. There I agree that it could be abused. I don't think so. The general conditions for collective management have also been tightened. In the beginning, I'd say they were more or less mild. At this point, some insurance policies have taken place, such as the possibility of proposing the lodging of a security in custody, the condition of the applicant's solvency, transparent financing and so on, and so on. This means: the original proposal was the American one who I think doesn't really fall for us and could really magnetize certain abuses. The current one is more European and has its logic. In the second and the next reading, we can talk about the method of financing mass proceedings, because in each country, in each country, it is different. For example, in Germany or Austria, the State is involved in financing mass actions for consumer organisations. So just so we know that even the state can be involved in this in some way. When it comes to the process itself, it is actually divided into two basic phases. The admissibility of a collective action shall be decided on before the collective proceedings concerning the substance is decided on the substance of the case. That means, let's say it's a two-stage thing. This, too, would lead to some bullying against some companies. We have examples from the past, such as bank charges. I've been actively involved in this, so I have experience from the market. And the really worst thing that can happen is that one court decides that the bank justifiably charged the fee and that the other didn't. This then the consumer does not really know what to think about it, even if it is the exact same contracts or very similar, actually on the same product. Law enforcement is unpredictable, and then we can't be surprised that people, of course, aren't involved in these disputes. In case they go, they're individual hundreds of cases that burden the whole system. In other readings, we can also talk about the difference between mass actions and representative actions, which is basically where this is going. But I'd leave that for second reading. I'm glad we can talk about this here. I hope we can make it in this parliamentary term. After all, it's part of the government's programming statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u9	Now, in the general debate, I will call on Mr Helena Válková to speak. Otherwise, have a nice noon. It is the last application for a general debate so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u10	Vice-President, thank you. I have such a difficult task. I will be very transparent, as I am sometimes to my detriment. First of all, I definitely agree with what my previous speaker said here. In other, official words - or, say, more technical terminology, Madam Secretary - the Institute of Mass Supplies, yes, rational empathy, no. In this respect, I have attended many seminars to make sure that the ideology of mass lawsuits, where they join - and in this already last proposal - consumers, not, as my previous speaker rightly pointed out here, the general potential public, who would feel affected, would like to bring an action and would not be a common denominator - the consumer, I often welcome the very powerful opponents against this, however, in the form in which he is presented, even though he has already admitted changes. That is why I may disappoint those who will now expect - I am not ready for this too, I confess - counterarguments, but counterarguments are quite enough, why this current proposal for legislation, why it needs to be changed before we allow it to be read again. So here I propose, of course it depends on the petitioner, the plaintiff, the secretary, the extension according to Section 91, I suspect it's paragraph 3, for another 60 days. I know that I will be the subject of criticism that, in fact, in view of the time that I have mentioned here in the opposite sequence in my previous speeches, it could jeopardise the discussion of this amendment in the parliamentary term in which we are now present. I don't see anything so tragic as to continue to do so, if it were to be a quality institute, and not just a proposal that has a number of question marks. And I have actually been present at several seminars as well as the rapporteur, Feri. Too bad our friend isn't here, I'd say an even more cautious colleague, chairman of the Marek Benda Constitutional Legal Committee. I think that we should, for his sake alone, stop this negotiation or at least consider extending the time limits, because, as far as I know, he has also devoted himself to this issue. We're just not ready for that in general right now. So this is the first time that I have been here, when I will ask, given the importance of this issue and the fact that we are introducing an atypical institute into the Czech legal system, to consider whether we could interrupt this point when we, too, are better prepared for a discussion that is essential. And if that were not the case, I will propose an extension of 60 days, and you will decide by vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u11	Madam, just: you said in the debate that you were proposing to interrupt. Am I to perceive that you're giving a procedural motion to interrupt? That would make it a good idea to say by when, and we can vote on it. But if it was just a discussion, then... [[Mr Kubíček is reporting.]] Please, Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the discussion, we decided we had to discuss it. So I propose a one-hour break at the ANO club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u13	Okay, so I'm calling a break for an ANO club meeting for one hour. [[This is Mrs. Cernochová reporting.]] All right, anyway, I'm gonna have to call this break anyway. Please, Mrs. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u14	With priority rights, Mr Vice-President. I join in with what has been said here from the mouth of my previous speakers. We too would like to discuss these matters with our members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. And while I see the other points we have on the agenda today, unfortunately, as the program changed this morning, a whole series of rapporteurs didn't count on her being here. So I'm going to solve the situation with a proposal for the ODS that we're going to take after the break that the club is going to have within 14 hours of the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u15	[[Member Michálek is reporting for the floor.]] We'll give priority rights, yes. Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u16	I just wanted to say that the Pirates Club isn't taking a break, and I don't understand why we're quitting work on Friday at 12:10 p.m. It doesn't feel really normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-009-068.u17	Not even the SPD MP took a break, of course. But I just wanted to say that, following the requests of the ANO and ODS Members' Clubs - that is to say, a two-hour pause - I am therefore terminating the agenda for today's meeting because we are exceeding the 14th hour. I therefore conclude today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a nice day. [[After a while.]] And I also add to the microphone that the meeting is adjourned until Tuesday, February 9th.
