ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u1	4. Information of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports on the Government Plan to address the negative impacts of COVID-19 on the level of education in the Czech Republic I have a mandate here that Minister Adam Vojtěch will speak for the apologized Minister of Education, and I would like to ask him for an introductory word on this point. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Or we could just give it a little more time. I'm gonna ask you all to calm down. There's a limited number of us here, but now there's an increase in the sound level in the O.R. If you'd like to discuss it, if you'd just go a bit further away from the one who's at the counter, maybe have some comfort, or maybe a telephone caller, please leave the O.R. Thank you. Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am here to be a colleague of the Minister of Education, although of course it is his domain, but I was entrusted with it because he apologized for health reasons. In any case, I can say very briefly that the Ministry of Health, Pardon, Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports carries out intensive methodological support along with the preparation of measures aimed at compensation for the impact of distance teaching on pupils and colds. The Ministry cooperates with all relevant actors in education. Given the described state and influence and the impact of inequalities on the education system and education of pupils and students, there is no need to prepare a new plan, since the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has had it since 2020 in the form of the Education Policy Strategy of the Czech Republic until 2030+ and its implementation plans, with one of the two strategic objectives of the strategy being: to reduce inequality in access to quality education and to allow maximum development of the potential of children, pupils and students. This issue is addressed across all implementation cards of both key measures for the period 2020 to 2023. Inequality is not only a long-term problem in education, with the increase in inequality in education thus merely confirming the basis of education policy and deepening this phenomenon along with strengthening the impact on the most affected groups of children and pupils, and schools in this respect need both material-technical, methodological and administrative support. The aim of the Ministry of Education is primarily open and intensive cooperation with actors in education and the successful implementation of the strategy that I have talked about, with the fact that this alone brings the answers and directions to the necessary interventions in education. Intensive support and further training of teachers in topics such as the formative evaluation of work with a heterogeneous collective, digitization of teaching and others, as well as direct support to pupils in the fields of educational materials, the availability of digital equipment and Internet access as a source of information, remains essential. The present solution - I would probably end it: There are organized various webinars of methodology of Ministry of Education, National Institute of Further Education, Czech School Inspection, coronal, web portals, edu.cz as well as activities of Czech Television, such as the programme TeachingTelka and web edu.ceskatelevisione.cz as well as financial and material support of state and companies. There are many other measures and solutions to this situation, but I suppose there will be another debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. And for the plaintiff of this point, I would probably ask Mr Výborný to take the floor, and at the same time, if he agrees, he will be the rapporteur for this press. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I agree. The rapporteur for this point shall be the appellants. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, today in a double role. I respect that, therefore, Minister Plaga is supposed to be ill, but it would, in my opinion, be a pity, as I have also consulted other members of the school committee, for example, to interrupt this point. For this reason: because, on the one hand, we have a Minister of Health here, I think that it is also not at all from the point of view, because many of the things that affect pupils, students of schools, are of course immediately based on the position and position of the Ministry of Health. I think that schools and schools have been dealing with this all this school year, when all these measures had to be validated by the Ministry of Health, and very often it was so that in the end it mattered to the team's decision at the Ministry of Health, how the teaching will take place, whether in the form of a presentation, or unfortunately for most of this school year by the form of distance. I'm just going to sum up a little bit, this isn't the first time we've had a point here. We have already discussed on 23 April in the House of Deputies this topic with inequalities caused by covid in education and education, because from my point of view, this is indeed a big problem. The scissors have expanded even more, and the responsibility for the alignment of the disproportions that have arisen in education is actually at the top of the government at the moment, at the Ministry of Education. The Minister responded to the House's resolution, after which he also responded in some way to the resolution of the Education Committee and the subcommittee. We actually heard the opening entrance of Minister Vojtěch from the reaction. And I would like to say one more little point about that. If we read the entire material from the Ministry of Education, we will find it very detailed, very detailed, but largely based on a situation that is not directly related to the impact of COVID-19 on education and education. Within the framework of education policy, there are some strategic documents, such as the 2030 strategy, and there is also talk in one substantial chapter about the inequalities in the education system and the measures to reduce these inequalities. This is of course important, but the covid here has brought quite different things to which it is necessary to respond not within two or three years of the budget of 2022, but I am convinced that it is necessary to respond now and immediately. [[15.50 hours]] Let us remember that a number of students of our schools have been in distance education for seven months. At the same time, from the data we have, for example. from the Czech School Inspectorate, we know that around 10 percent of pupils remained completely out of reach of that distance teaching. And these problems by overcoming the covid and returning the children to schools, which, for God's sake, they just don't disappear, they don't get over. And so it is good to ask, and that is what we wanted to ask here today, Minister Plaga, what concrete steps the government will take now, at this time, because we cannot move this to strategic goals for the next few years and to education policy for the next decades. Indeed, these problems that have now arisen in education and with which schools are facing must be addressed now. And when we look at the material that we got from the Ministry of Education, it appears in a very slim part, if I remember correctly, then about 350 million should be invested at the moment, so how about those summer camps that are very important - and I am convinced that it is for discussion whether the government should increase the amount at the moment. And more importantly, it's not just about the finances, it's about the preparation and the system at all, the structure of how the summer camps are going to take place. If anyone here has the idea that teachers who are talking about the last of them will go to camp during the summer, this is an absolutely unimaginable situation. Indeed, those teachers, after that year that was dramatically demanding - and let us forget that they were on vacation. They weren't on vacation! In the vast majority the distance teaching meant much more difficulty for them in communicating with pupils, in communicating with parents than standard presentation lessons. So they really need those summer months to get their hands on the new school year. And I wanted to ask the minister how much the ministry communicates with the teaching faculties, for example, because we see the space there. I have spoken to the deans of some teaching faculties who have confirmed to me that they are ready, and that their students are ready to participate in these summer camps. In fact, there are already special courses within the teaching faculties which are engaged in teaching pupils. So it can be seen that the terrain can react, and the Ministry, the government should therefore create maximum conditions for them. So these are the things that I think the government should be able to answer. The same way she's ready for the new school year, because on September 1st or August 31st, the problems won't end and the inequalities won't fall apart and they won't settle. So to what extent schools will be prepared and bailed out, for example, at the level of prevention. The issue of prevention methodologies, school psychologists, so that schools can deal with crisis situations which, of course, will still occur as a result of the effects of COVID-19, including in the families of individual pupils. Next thing. To what extent, and the schools are calling for it - please, let's go into practice, they're calling for assistants to have enough assistants at their disposal to deal with the very pupils who may have fallen out of the system, and that year they were completely out of control. And we can't just throw you overboard. So these are all the questions I wanted to address to Minister Plag. However, in order not to leave here just to interrupt that point, I think it would be reprehensible and it would be a shame, so I will allow myself in a detailed debate to read a resolution that has three points. I'll try to get you to know the resolution now. It's not conflicting, and it sounds like this: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the government I. to present an urgent scheme for systemic assistance and support to pupils who have been affected by a long-term loss of attendance education.' We haven't received a strategic plan yet, I think the government should present this, and it's not about us, but it's about the terrain, it's about the schools, that's where it should be headed. "II. to ensure adequate funding to provide systemic assistance and support to pupils who have been affected by a long-term loss of attendance education.' I mentioned here that the 350 million allocated at the moment will obviously not be sufficient, because the funds are not only for summer camps, it is necessary to take into account the new school year, which will begin with 1. 9. And I just indicated a few things here that deserve our attention: assistants, school psychologists, prevention methodology. And the third point is that it deviates somewhat from the subject of these inequalities, but I also consider it important: "III. by 30 June 2021 at the latest, the Government shall, through the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, inform all schools and educational establishments of the regime of schools and educational establishments for the new school year from 1. 9. 2021 in variants according to the development of the pandemic situation COVID-19, including requirements that go beyond the activities of schools, such as testing, etc., including ensuring the financing of similar measures.' Just preparing a new school year. I would very much not like us to continue this practice where school directors learn about the planned measures for a few hours or days, tops, before the measures are due to begin. The school year, everyone, starts with 1. 9. and if we were to get back into a situation where the parameters of the new school year will come to the attention of the directors sometime on August 29th, I would really consider this to be a complete failure of this government. And I would very much like the directors to have those rules by the end of June. I understand that the objection "no one knows now what will happen in September" is absolutely relevant. But that is why, in this resolution, we propose that it should be in the options of Variant - the situation as in June. Variant - a situation even better than in June. And the option, when it's going to swing again and it's going to get worse. I think it's very, very simple. And here it might be worth saying to the Minister whether he has already dealt with the question of testing in schools in any way, whether schools will be acquitted or not since September of this. How to treat pupils who may be vaccinated. We're talking about high school kids, of course. What tests, if any, will be used in schools. Of course, I suppose no one will ever consider using any invasive tests again, but it's also a question of the validity of those tests. PCR tests, pooling and so on and so on. I think these are also the answers to which, or, respectively, the things the Minister of Health here can respond. Thank you for supporting this resolution. I think leaving without interrupting this subject, which is as important as vaccination, would be a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, I have a little different information about the meeting of the school committee and the joint meeting of the health committee during the committee week. Other people have prepared other resolutions that are not being negotiated, and I suppose there would be a lot of confusion. Therefore, I propose a procedural matter, and this is an interruption of the negotiations of this press in the negotiation of the Health and Education Committee and the presence of the Minister of Education and Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u7	Well, we're not discussing the press, we're discussing the point. We do not even have a House document on this point. Pending the negotiation of the same content by the Health and Education Committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u8	Yeah, well, until we're finished with the point, it's not the press. Well, until we're finished with this point. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u9	Okay. If it really is in the agenda of these committees, it is voteable. Then I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. [[Gong.]] Otherwise, I will recapitulate, we are at a stage where I have not yet opened the debate. [[Voices from the diaper.]] So, the checkout application I just granted. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. At this point, I consider the number of people present and registered to be stable, and we will therefore vote on the proposal to interrupt this point until it has been discussed in the Education Committee and the Health Committee. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 5, 81 Members registered, for 56, against 20. This proposal was adopted. I am interrupting this point before the general debate is opened. And it was the last point of this meeting, so at the same time I must interrupt this meeting, because we cannot continue to discuss it. In agreement with the presidents of the MPs, we will now briefly interrupt so that the system can be set up, and we will continue if I am correct 82.? Or the 103rd meeting? 103th, I think. [[Right 93.]] Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-004-004.u10	At 4:10 p.m., the 93rd meeting will continue.
